ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Piotr Sak, Daniel Milewski and Patrick Wichr to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Sak. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 52nd session of the Sejm to be accepted. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with information about the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Climate and Environment concerning energy security of the Republic of Poland. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, print No 2182. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - to support the rehabilitation of minors, - on personal income tax and certain other laws. These projects are 2183 and 2186 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. I propose that in the case of a print project 2186 the Sejm should agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and some other laws, print No 2191. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you can hear me because I can't hear my own voice. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: No, I can't hear you.]] I'm glad to see you all, but I'd like to turn your tone down just a little bit, because there are four hundred and dozen people in the courtroom. Thank you. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, - about the Copernican Academy, - amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2197, 2200 and 2194 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles at the first reading of the draft law on support for the rehabilitation of minors. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: You can't hear because there's noise.]] I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the situation of Poles in the face of inflation, high interest rates and melting savings, which was requested by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u2	I would like to inform you that the following committee meetings will be held today. On time. 10.30 five Commission meetings are planned: - to the Special Forces, - Poselska etiquette, - Education, Science and Youth, - Public finances, Communication with Poles abroad. The European Union Committee for Affairs shall begin its meeting at 3 p.m. 11. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development is also scheduled at 3 p.m. 11, as did the Committee on Culture and Media. Meetings of the following Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy together with the Health Commission - h.m. 11.30, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Health-- hour. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - for Energy, Climate and State Assets - at 3 p.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 7:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Development of the Wielkopolska Oncology Centre - h.m. 11, - the Joint Parliamentary Group on Renewable Energy and the Posel Group for New Green Deal - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Three Seas - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Cooperation with Municipal Authorities of Municipalities, Districts and Voivodships - hours 14. At the same time, I should like to inform you that Mrs Violetta Porowska, President of the Parliamentary Group for the European Union. Patients' rights are cordially invited to the inauguration of the educational exhibition Kolonoscopy is not Space, presenting the problem of colorectal cancer, which remains the second most frequent cause of death due to cancer in Poland. The exhibition raises the issue of the importance of social education in the field of prevention. The inauguration will take place at 3 p.m. 12 in the main building of the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u3	Thank you very much. We have formal requests, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, with a formal proposal. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm addressing you, Prime Minister. A recent past, 19 October 2021, showed the European Parliament's hall in Strasbourg and your words: The Polish authorities will lead to the elimination of the Disciplinary Chamber. Prime Minister, we know very well that this chamber still works today, but what happened? Since then, the Polish State has been charged EUR 175 million a day for the penalty for failing to comply with your words. Prime Minister, for an ex-banker, you are very weak in math right now. Poles are better at this math, because it is 175 million that deprives farmers, local governments, entrepreneurs of very important money. Self-governments like Saw, like Walking, like Oborniki, like New Thought would know what to do with that money. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But this is the Sejm, not the Prime Minister.]] Therefore, Mrs Marshal, I am applying for a break and for the convening of the Senior Convention, so that Prime Minister Morawiecki may explain himself when he will do what he says. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u5	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir, but we are just after the meetings and the Convention and the Bureau, so I will certainly not call the Bureau or the Convention. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I request that the session be adjourned until noon. 11, convening the congress... [[Voice from the hall: Congress, ha, ha, ha!]] ... Senior Convention... [[The convention just ended.]] ...and including the reply of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in the session of the Sejm, why they led to paralysis of the Polish sky (Applause), why they had not talked to controllers for 2 years, despite being reported problems... [[You'd better not talk to them.]] [[Poland in ruins!]] ...and why, for two years, there has been such a great threat to the safety of air operations that 24 demands that have been quite recently confirmed by the government have been... Why did this happen? [[Voice from the room: Ask Putin.]] Why is it easier for you to give permission to fly a Russian nuclear fuel plane for a Hungarian power plant rather than take care of the comfort of Polish passengers? [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, first of all, it is my decision not to call the Bureau or the Convention and to establish the order which has also been established, and you know that. And secondly, sir, what you're talking about in this... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: But it was an important matter, Marshal!]] [[A plea to your conscience!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't yell at me from the bench because I can't hear you. [[Well, then hear it.]] Secondly, Mr President, I would like to tell you that this topic is contained in questions on current issues that will be addressed to the government. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: So?]] Here you go, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister agreed to make proposals for borrowers two days ago, but of course they were words, words, words. That is why I ask for an adjournment and introduction to the agenda of the package for the family, which was presented by the Polish Left, the club of the Left. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] These are three ready-made billings. You don't have to think of anything, you just have to work on these projects. These are aid projects for those who will not have to pay their loan instalments. This is a question of helping pensioners and pensions. This is a question of the budgetary sphere and increases for the budgetary sphere. These projects are here. Prime Minister, if we want to help, I would ask that we work on these projects. Because it is today that decisions have to be made, not on 1 January 2023, because by 1 January many Polish families may not survive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u9	Thank you very much. The matter was discussed at Convention and Bureau meetings. I'm not gonna expand my order because he's already approved. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This morning, most Polish houses and Poles are wondering what the next winter will be like. No wonder we have a problem. Prime Minister, you promised to unlock RES at a press conference some time ago. To this day no law has entered the Sejm that would unblock the construction of wind farms on land. To this day, you have not put forward any new legislation that would facilitate the development of renewable energy sources. Today this is the Polish state right. The energy from the wind and the energy from the sun is our state, because we don't have to import the sun and the wind from anyone. [[Members' statements are at the end.]] Prime Minister, it is time to start talking about the most serious things in this House. People are wondering how much gas it's gonna take in the winter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me, first of all, how we have signed contracts to complete the new gas infrastructure, and second of all, when you unlock the RES. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u11	Thank you very much. Madam, you have not noticed that the Minister for State Assets and the Minister for Climate Affairs will be informed on this issue. [[The marshal is talking to you.]] Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please. [[Oh, finally! Gregory, you're alive!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u12	The Holy Memory of Zbigniew Halat, a doctor who did not part with the principles and with the traditional ethics of his profession, in his time the Deputy Minister of Health, the Chief Health Inspector. St. Zbigniew Halat's memory. Shine, Lord, above his soul. I ask you to sigh in prayer. Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine upon him. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. On 3 May in Wroclaw, the march of Zbigniew Halat's memory, which in his grave began a few days ago. On 3 May we will remember him, marching along the streets of Wroclaw. There come, there beg for a good memory of a good doctor who was an opponent (the bell) of experimenting on people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u13	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to celebrate a minute's silence in memory of the miners who died in the mine of Pniówek and in the mine of Zofiówka. I ask you to honor them with a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u15	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets... Excuse me, the Prime Minister has asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would briefly, within a few minutes, like to sum up this problem, which is really bothering Poles today. This is a problem that involves further action on the part of Russia. This time Russia moved the borders of imperialism, gas imperialism, another step further. This is a direct attack on Poland - on Poland, which yesterday showed what a real impact on Russian oligarchs is. We presented the first list of Russian oligarchs, Russian entrepreneurs. In revenge for this, the Kremlin threatened, then this threat was realized this morning - the threat of cutting off the gas. But, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen, we have been preparing for this moment. We've been preparing for years. The beginning of this process is 2006-2007... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...when President Lech Kaczyński decided to build a terminal in Świnoujście. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Who built the Platform.]] It was that decision that led to the fact that not only today's terminal works. [[Voice from the room: This is serious.]] This terminal is already capable of pressing gas in excess of 6 billion m [[Voice from the room: What have you done so far?]] ...soon it will be possible to sail 7-8 billion meters. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: But what have you done so far?]] It is also the action taken by the Government of Law and Justice, which was stopped long ago by the left - the Baltic pipeline, to Norway. And this pipeline, ladies and gentlemen (Applause) will be built in the next three months. Completion of the process, reception and from October (Applause) the possibility of pressing gas with this pipeline. Poland also built interconnectors at the same time. We have finished construction on Slovakia, we are waiting for the completion of the construction on the Slovak side - it will happen very soon, soon. It is the ability to pump gas, pressing gas in excess of 5 billion m Poland consumes 20-21 billion m [[Voices from the room: Bravo.]] But also with this blackmail, with this gun to our head, we will manage, ladies and gentlemen, so that Poles do not feel it. First of all, for many months we have been pressing gas into Polish warehouses. I stress: Polish warehouses, not warehouses in Germany (Applause) in Russian possession. Because this is what gas warehouses in Germany look like today - they are largely Russians. We didn't give up our magazines. [[Then who built it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've pushed over 2300 million m in. [[And the gas stops?]] [[Keep your voice down.]] At the same time, I would also like to assure you that special tariffs, tariffs for households, for hospitals, for schools, for public utility institutions... [[For the cooperative.]] ...their validity will be postponed to 2027. Then don't worry. [[Applause]] These tariffs for vulnerable customers will be lower for at least a few years. This was the decision made by the Polish Government, the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Russia has not only made... [[Solidars with Russia rule.]] ...a brutal, murderous attack on Ukraine, not only murders women, children and soldiers there, but Russia has also attacked energy security throughout Europe, food security throughout Europe and Russia has attacked Europe's economy through inflation. This putinflation, which is today in many countries, actually in all European countries... [[What's she like in France?]] ...tonight has its next installment. The next action of Putinflation is precisely what is going to lead to even higher gas prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is on the front line today, and we all, all the countries of Europe, must be aware that this is a fight for freedom, a fight for sovereignty, a fight for security, a fight for peace. [[Applause]] And we can't bend. And we won't bend. We will, ladies and gentlemen, do everything we can to ensure that not only Polish households do not suffer, I said so, but also that the Polish economy does not suffer. With shame, this part of the room should mention those words that came out of the mouth of prominent politicians that Nord Stream 2 is a business project. [[Voice from the room: True.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Yesterday I spoke to a lot of German politicians including the chancellor. Today the Germans are ashamed of it. Today, Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 are political projects that should never be opened. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[And the sale of Lotus is what kind of project?]] And the Baltic gas pipeline is not a monument, it is one of the most valuable Polish projects, it is a project that will give us today independence, energy sovereignty, gas sovereignty, full gas sovereignty since autumn. [[And the lotus sold.]] And by autumn, my fellow countrymen, we'll be fine. We will secure deliveries from other directions and Russian gas blackmail against Poland will have no effect. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Who are you selling lotus to?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Beata, Beata, Beata.]] [[A voice from the hall: shame, shame, shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u17	Thank you very much. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory, print No 2201. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Objection.]] I will put him to the vote in a moment, in the light of the objection raised. We will settle this issue in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. I ask Members to come to the sitting room because there is no longer a remote vote, so it will be quicker. In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and at the hearing of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 420 - for, 9 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda. Before we go to him, I will announce a one-minute break so that the country that is to go to committee leaves the plenary room so that Mr Witold Czarnecki can present the committee's report calmly. One minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 31 hours 10 min 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws (prints No 2154 and 2168). I would like to ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws, seymous printing No 2154. The Commission considered the parliamentary draft law on 7 April this year. I will remind the High House that the Law on investment in the Świnoujście terminal was adopted by the Sejm in April 2009, i.e. 13 years ago. The amendments to the proposed law concern not only this law, which is included in the title, but also four other laws: the Public Roads Act, the Mining Waste Act, the Environmental Information and Protection Act and Environmental Impact Assessments, as well as the Geological and Mining Law. Changes to the Home Act are needed in view of the need to ensure the timely execution of accompanying investments and at the same time necessary for the operation of the terminal. It is closely linked to the planned structural and organisational changes concerning the Polish Mining and Gas Industry SA company in the future. As regards amendments to the Public Roads Act, it is important to stress the need for changes that could significantly reduce the time taken to implement the investments in relation to the time of implementation in normal administrative mode. Other changes aim at simplifying existing legal procedures and solutions which made it difficult for businesses to ensure continuity of their geological activities. This included, among others, the following: the Act on Mining Waste and the Act on Environmental Information and Environmental Impact Assessments. To conclude, I will say that the proposed changes have found, in these undoubtedly difficult times of various kinds of threats, an understanding among the Members of the opposition. Editorial and legislative amendments and three clarification amendments were adopted. The Commission's report on Energy, Climate and State Assets was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in Seym printing No 2168. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u20	Thank you very much. I have a kind request for you, among others. to Mr Tomasz Semoniak. Mr. Thomas! Mr. Tomasz Semoniak! I have a heartfelt request for you. If you want to talk, I have a favor to ask you to do something so as not to disturb others. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u21	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on printing 2154, i.e. a draft law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws, and on printing No. 2168, and in principle the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets concerning the first reading of the project. According to the first reading, the proposal for the proposed amendments results from the need to ensure the correct and timely implementation of the accompanying investments necessary for the operation of the LNG terminal in the face of the energy transition challenges and structural changes within the gas sector, in particular possible mergers of energy companies. The current wording of the terminal law suggests that the reorganisation of the PGNiG will result in a lack of possibility to continue the investments accompanying the terminal law by e.g. legal successors of PGNiG or a subsidiary and their legal successors to whom the implementation of these accompanying investments would be entrusted. In view of the above, there is a proposal for a provision whereby accompanying investments may also be carried out by the legal successor of PGNiG or entities that are a subsidiary of PGNiG or its legal successor or the entity with which PGNiG or its legal successor has concluded contracts for the transfer of an undertaking or an organised part of an undertaking, provided that it indicates in that agreement that the purchaser of such an undertaking or its organised part will carry out the accompanying investment referred to in Article. 38 in point 1 of the terminal law. In the case of the Public Road Act, the aim of the amendment is inter alia. enable the transfer of rights and obligations resulting from a decision authorising the seizure of the road lane referred to in the Public Roads Act, as is the case with regard to authorisations to take up the roadway for telecommunications infrastructure purposes. The amendments to the Mining Waste Act aim at simplifying existing legal procedures and solutions which have so far made it difficult for businesses to ensure continuity of geological and mining activities in the case of reorganisation processes involving the merger or division of capital companies or the sale of the company or its organised part. For a similar reason, the provisions of the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments are amended. The aim is also to facilitate the reorganisation of the activities of mining companies by introducing a simplified procedure for the transition of rights and obligations from environmental conditions decisions to concessions under the Geological and Mining Law as part of a package of solutions to improve the transfer or acceptance of concessions under the Geological and Mining Law. Changes in Geological Law and Mining Law are intended to resolve interpretational doubts and patch legal gaps, as well as to simplify procedures and regulations that hinder the smooth running of the activities governed by the law. The intention is to facilitate the reorganisation of the activities of mining companies, to introduce a simplified concession transition procedure within the framework of the proposed provisions in certain cases of legal consequences, and to allow for the continuation of administrative proceedings initiated and not completed in the event of the transfer or acquisition of the concession. Since the proposed provisions will also affect pending proceedings, the drafter has decided that those provisions, as amended by the law, will apply to cases initiated and not completed by a final decision before the date of entry into force of this amendment. High Izbo! The solutions put in place will ensure the smooth conduct of the procedures for the seizure of the road lane, changes and withdrawal of concessions, approval of allowances for geological works projects, acceptance of the reclassifying resources, changes to the deposit management project, changes to the plan for the management of the underground carbon storage site, approval of the mining plant's traffic plan, approval of the traffic plan as provided for in the approval of the traffic plan and approval of the geological documentation, as well as the problem of drawing up geological documentation not requiring approval by decision. However, the most important reason for introducing these solutions is to build, ladies and gentlemen, energy independence of Poland. The situation of the last few days, from the last few hours, shows very clearly how it is needed. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, we ask for the Law and Justice to move on to further work on the proposed solutions and adoption of the proposed proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u22	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Sławomir Neumann, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is another example of legal sloppyness, which this power has been promoting in Poland for some time. This is because it is a parliamentary project, although the authors are probably in one of the ministries. I understand that you care about time, but this is probably causing a lot of shortcomings in this bill. I am somehow strangely convinced that implementing it, if you succeed in carrying it out, will result in a rapid revision, because the lack of internal, government and external consultations gives almost certainty that you have it poorly prepared. The bill is actually to carry out a merger, or actually take PGNiG by Orlen. The idea itself raises a lot of controversy, and from an economic point of view it seems completely pointless. Rather, it is a political project to build a great national monopoly, which in a poorly developed internal competitive market will be practically the only one dictating prices. The idea of connecting PGNiG with Orlen has no economic justification. This building of a large conglomerate, which apart from the problems of managing such a large and inefficient organism, will bring nothing positive to the economy. However, it will ensure that the internal market is fully monopolised, which gives only great certainty about the high prices that are already very high, also provides certainty about the lack of management activities of these companies in order to reduce costs, in order to seek competitive advantages at lower prices, and will not give any synergy that you are repeatedly talking about, nor will it give a chance to build a company that will have some expansion into the world. It's all wishful thinking. An example is your last idea of combining Lotus with Orlen. After all, the only result of this connection is today an extremely high price of fuel at Polish stations. It's the only thing you've managed to do with this political project. As for the translation that oil on the stock exchanges is at record prices, ladies and gentlemen, it was already at record prices in 2011 and then the price of fuel reached 5 PLN, exceeded 5 PLN, and today it oscillates within 7 PLN, at the same prices on the stock market, and in fact you have still reduced VAT and excise duty on fuel. So you have an example. You yourselves have created a problem of high fuel prices today by such a monopoly of the market. Built today by Orlen and Lotus, prices trigger pre-racial states in people who pay for a litre of petrol. Or oil. These huge margins, which today can be applied by Orlen or Lotus, are due to the lack of any internal competition. The translation of the fact that this merger of Lotus with Orlen is not yet finalized is not much of a justification, since it has been practically functioning for a long time. After all, the president of Orlen is former Chief Pcima, the President of Lotus - she was an accountant from Pcima, when Mr. Obajtek was the general. This pcim personal union rules and Lotus works the same way, it acts as if it were part of Orlen, and it gives us very high prices. The second argument that stations are private and the prices at stations are set by them is not true, because all these stations buy fuel at Orlen or Lotus refineries and these wholesale margins are very high. Plus, I'll remind you that Lotus and Orlen have hundreds, thousands of stations, in every city there is actually a station of Orlen or Lotus, and they dictate prices on the market. So it's your actions that cause very high prices. Now you want to repeat this model by connecting Orlen to PGNiG. You're talking about shopping together, you're saying it's gonna work. Ladies and gentlemen, Orlen mainly buys oil, PGNiG mainly buys gas. What synergy do you see here? What's that? So this is an absolutely political project. This bill is to support this political project. He is contrary to the principles of economics, contrary to the principles of the free market, will cost us all electricity bills, gas bills, fuel bills. You can create more shields, and at the end, you'll have to create shields. So far, you're creating anti-inflationary shields, some ideas to pay for household bills, and at the end, you're going to have to create an anti-battle shield, because Obejtek, being the CEO of Energi, sends high bills for electricity, he's the president of Orlen, and we have high fuel prices, and when he's president of PGNiG, we're going to have even higher (Bing) gas bills. You're gonna have to make a bully shield because the face of this expensive one is Obajtek, Sasin, and the hawk of all your economic ideas, which is President Glapiński. You're doing this to yourselves. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You will greet the Prime Minister of Polish poverty, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Maybe I'll start a little unusual, presenting a position on behalf of the club Lewis regarding print no. 2154, and unusual because I have a big appeal to the Polish government. In the current situation, in the situation we are dealing with, just back off or at least stop Orlen's idea of taking PGNiG because it's going to be another major disaster. Why is this our position? Because today, at a time when there is so much uncertainty about gas supplies, at a time when we are dealing with an energy crisis, at a time when it is not known how it will all look like, how it will turn out, then carrying out such a gigantic process of combining one large concern with another, despite of course the substantive considerations, because there is no substantive justification for these companies to merge, the process itself will cause people in these companies to deal with who will be president, director, vice-director and where they will work and will not deal with the energy security of Poland. Hold it. I have a really big appeal and a huge request for you because this is not the time to merge 35,000. 25,000 people in Orlena. PGNiG people. This is not the time to combine Orlen, whose value today on the stock exchange is PLN 31 billion, with PGNiG, which is worth PLN 36 billion, all the more so that it is clear, as the social side confirms, that there is no plan of acquisition, there are no arrangements, there is nothing signed between employees and Orlen representatives, there is no plan of merger at all. And I know something about it because I've been involved in energy consolidation, creating the Enea group, and I know how these processes go. This is a really serious and complicated process, so I'd ask you to think about it. And that's the main reason why the Left Club is gonna file a motion to reject this bill. Because this is not a draft law amending the Investment Act in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] ...only this is the bill, Mr President, which, in short, allows all rights, all obligations incumbent on PGNiG today to be passed to Orlen, a potential legal successor, in an easy way, probably not entirely in line with the applicable law. What's it for? You have an idea that's completely incomprehensible to us. We're cutting ourselves off from Russia, cutting ourselves off from what's going on. It's very good to be clear. [[Voice from the room: Then support this project.]] But do you know what you're doing? You create Gazprom in Poland, you create Polish Gazprom. You want to create exactly the same company as Russian Gazprom, because this company, to be clear, will deal with energy, gasoline, oil, LPG, CNG, natural gas, heat, media, retail, i.e. these famous sausages and hot dogs, postal shipments, plastic production. In a moment you will probably want to take control of the entire government and all the media in Poland. What's the point of doing that? To be clear, I will make one argument in the context of what the Prime Minister said, because today I listened to the Prime Minister with great attention. I suggest that the Polish government and Mr President, who smiles, read the decision of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on 16 March. The decision is as follows: it consents to a concentration consisting of the merger of the Polish Petroleum Concerto Orlen with its registered office in Płock and the Polish Petroleum Mining and Gasworks with its registered office in Warsaw, provided that it is removed or caused by permanent and irreversible control over Gas Storage Poland sp. z o.o. based in Dębogórz within 12 months of the date of the merger within the meaning of the relevant article for an independent investor. What are you doing? What does that mean? That today, when it comes to the gas warehouses that the Prime Minister was talking about, again on the basis of this decision we will control these gas warehouses (The Bell), a key issue for Poland's energy security, pass on to a private entity. They're probably gonna end up in Russia again. Is that it? I don't think so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, today we were to consider a bill amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about this at all today. Nothing is more wrong, ladies and gentlemen, because it is really about removing the last obstacles in the great plan that President Daniel Obajtek adopted and in relation to which he convinced President Kaczyński. This decision, ladies and gentlemen... In fact, the main element, the assumption of this is not the law, as I said, about the terminal, but there are changes in the mining law laws. This is a country you know exactly. It's about concessions for gas and oil extraction. We also know exactly how many of these concessions are, because in the case of PGNiG there are about 250, but even more important are documents related to concessions, which are over 13 thousand. Unfortunately, once again, we are dealing with the parliamentary project. Mr Reporter, this is not good practice. Unfortunately, we see it in our legislation. All parliamentary projects which are not subject to a full inter-ministerial, social consultation procedure are burdened with errors, which unfortunately we must repair later. Unfortunately, you're talking about some good solutions, and you're leaving on the way out. I'm not even going back to New Deal. Looking, ladies and gentlemen, at this great project - great, because I am talking both about Lotus and about PGNiG - Daniel Obajtka... In Lotus' case, we know how much it's gonna cost us. Yes? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be rid of 30% of the Lotus value, Saudi Aramco will buy 30%. shares in the refinery, MOL buys 417 Lotus stations, which account for 80% All stations. Of course, we'll be able to buy back 200. You're saying these 200s are going to be what 400 is. We'll see. It's very questionable. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that in this case the European Commission has acted quite passively as if in our favour. The decision on costs is to be made by the UOKiK and the UOKiK as if it were clear that we were to sell the company that manages gas tanks. I hope it goes to the Gas-System, because that would be logical. The point is that the Gaz-System will be able to buy it and the cost and place will still be located here. One would like to say that mergers are an essential part of what is happening in the world. The point is to increase your competitiveness. It is a pity that we did not make these mergers before entering the European Union. Probably wouldn't cost us that much then. On the other hand, I fear that today, when it comes to external competitiveness, this merger, ladies and gentlemen, will give us little. What can we get, ladies and gentlemen? Our club looks with some hope at the topics of hydrogen, offshore, biogas, because it's as if these companies came in today. This is also very necessary from the point of view, ladies and gentlemen... Today was information about the gas. In fact, we need to talk more than just about diversification. First of all, we should talk about producing as much gas as possible from us, and in the case of some areas of the economy, we should just move away from this gas. This is mostly about farms. I mean, households. That's where we should just go to electricity. Our parliamentary club is on this subject, ladies and gentlemen, very rationally. We have not yet reached a final decision on the vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna do it after the whole discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u28	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederate circle to speak. According to tradition, I greet scouts and scouts who look down on us and learn their future profession. We cordially greet you. It's nice to have you with us. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a word of comment on what the Prime Minister said less than an hour ago. Namely, I think it was 2018, when at the meeting of the Energy Committee I asked Minister Naimski, what is plan B, if Baltic Pipe does not meet with the end of the Jamaican contract. What's the plan for 2022? Anyway, it was supposed to cut through at the end of this year. Then, 4-5 years ago, I heard from Minister Naimski that the plan was there. What's that? That's something the Minister didn't want to reveal. Today, the Prime Minister said that we have gas in storage for a month and a half. Praise God we have, but this is not enough by autumn. This isn't the gas that's gonna last until the fall, this is the gas that's gonna last until summer. That's why we'd like to know the details. How does the government intend to ensure the gas safety of Poland? We knew that with the end of the Jamal contract, we could expect problems in 2022, even if there was no war. I'm moving on to the merits of the case, which is the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I need to speak with Mr Evening. I mean, it's not bad. The creation of a large, powerful multi-energy company in Poland is not a bad idea, it is not a bad idea. You were talking about the equivalent of Polish Gazprom. The truth is, Gazprom can dictate conditions because it's big because it's powerful. The Saudis have one company in their resources, which accounts for 10%. all the oil in the world. [[Voice from the hall: Because they have sources.]] Of course they have sources. That's why it has to be a multi-energy company. The point is not that Poland does not have a powerful multi-energy group. We have a record that in this part of Europe, in this part of the world... Of course, the devil is in the details. It's about how it's gonna be done. I share some concerns here. At this point in time, in the current situation, will fusion not cause problems in a very hot market, in a very hot situation? Now we need full efficiency and full mobilisation in terms of energy resources. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation supports the energy sovereignty of Poland, gas sovereignty, sovereignty of oil. Of course, it also applies to electricity and must assume diversification. It can't be that we have oil now, gas from other sources. There must be a full diversification of supplies, then we will actually be able to talk about independence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u31	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! According to both the applicants and the government, this project is an innocent technical project designed to make it possible to facilitate a number of administrative activities generally related to gas, but the truth is that there has been no more smokescreen for the real objectives behind such legislation for a long time. In fact, this project is intended to de facto serve a narrow group of party oligarchies and enable the merger of Orlen and Polish Petroleum and Gas Mining. The most important question today in this situation, in which Poland's energy security was so questioned, is: Is such a merger of some of the most important companies in terms of energy security - on the one hand Orlen, on the other hand PGNiG - reasonable? Is it a good idea to de facto pursue the interest of a narrow group of this party oligarchy in a danger situation? Should this diversification effort, both in terms of oil and gas supply, be dissipated by administrative, actual and other activities that are intended to lead to mergers? As Poland 2050 we stand in the position that the worst time for such changes is the time when the energy security of Poland was given into a very strong doubt. Today, the efforts of these companies, the efforts of the government, the efforts of the state should be directed towards ensuring energy security. I'll tell you the details. First of all, today, the Prime Minister spoke of gas warehouses in his speech, referring, for example, to German, catastrophic ones. Today, the condition of this merger is the sale of a company that manages Polish gas warehouses. Then what's the point? Another thing that will be the result of this merger. In the case of gas extraction concessions in Norway, the Norwegian Government's agreement to take over this concession by a new company may be needed. How, in a situation of threat of energy security, gas in such a drastic way (the bell) brings about a situation in which this energy security also in the case of Norwegian gas, which, according to the Prime Minister, is supposed to be a cure for Russia's actions, cast doubt? We don't get it. We are in favour of diversification, we are in favour of security, we are in favour of supplying Poles and Polish companies with gas safely. This bill says something completely different, it says something about danger. Once again, we call on the government to consider whether this is certainly a good way to go at this difficult time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS Parliamentary Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also join in greetings for scouts and scouts. I'm glad you're here, and I'm glad you can watch the gallery. On the other hand, ad rem. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Russia will apply blackmail on raw materials, supply of Poland and Europe as a whole with raw materials has been known for at least 10 years. [[Voice from the room: Who knew that? I don't think it's the Germans.]] [[The voice from the hall: What did Mr. Miller do?]] Oh, I can see I hit a nerve. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Ten years. And these 10 years are made up of two governments: the Platform Government and the PSL Government and the PiS Government. [[Voice from the room: What did Miller do in 2002?]] The Platform and PSL government left behind after 10 years of gasport, which today is proud of the PiS government. [[Exactly.]] On the other hand, the PiS government has not yet left anything except the Buńczucznych assurances of the President of the Council of Ministers, who from this speaker said that basically this Russian gas is no longer needed for anything. Russia's policy of bypassing the Friendship and pipeline pipeline, more importantly, the Brotherhood has really been known for several years, because for several years the work on Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, then on TurkStream has been ongoing. The TurkStream was realized thanks to the great support of your greatest political friend Viktor Orbán. If it wasn't for him, TurkStream wouldn't have been built and bypassed from the south wouldn't have worked. [[The voice from the hall: What does Miller say?]] But luckily there was Orbán, who reached out and helped Putin. These today's bumpy assurances by the Prime Minister that we will not need gas from Russia for anything as early as October, are based above all on the fact that the Prime Minister has calculated us 10 billion m On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this is a strategic project, and it can slip. It must also be borne in mind that these 10 billion m
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u34	Thank you very much. The question was asked by 20 people. Would any of you like to join us? [[Voice from the room: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Well, go ahead, then. And after you have done so, sir, I will close the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Please, as the first Waldy Dzikowski Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question does not refer directly to the draft law, but today all Poland is talking about turning the taps by Gazprom at hours. 7 and about energy security of Poles and Poles, Polish families. It's about 9 billion meters.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Neumann, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was a little persuaded by Prime Minister Morawiecki to ask the question. I will raise two points: good and bad. The good news is that somebody finally woke up in your house and stopped being passed on this nonsense since yesterday repeated after Putin's decision to close the deliveries that this is the success of your government. Let me remind you that two weeks ago, you voted against the Senate's amendment to stop taking Russian gas and introduce an embargo. You were against it then. Yesterday, Putin turned off the gas and you say it's a success for your government. Well, I didn't hear a stupid argument. But today the Prime Minister pulled out of it, and that's a plus. The downside is that it's obvious that everything is yours. Let me remind you: the gasport in Świnoujście - the government of the Platform and PSL... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...reverses in Jamale - Platform and PSL government, interconnectors, connections in Cieszyn, Forests - Platform and PSL government... [[Bravo. May I? Yes, you can.]] ...gas warehouse, 1.5 billion m [[Bravo. Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: Another.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We've all done so much good for this country. [[And you have to talk about it.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe we should thank you.]] This country doesn't appreciate it at all. It's scary. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask you about the Norwegian concessions which Polish oil mining and gas industry owns. There is such a danger that it will be necessary to obtain the approval of the Norwegian Government. Therefore, Minister, are there any discussions on this matter, and how can this end in the case of mergers? The second case, de facto directly related to this law, concerns the Baltic Pipe pipeline. From the government, there is information that it can be given up, the work can be completed in October. I have a question about how long it will take to get this gas pipeline operational, then fill it with gas, and when you start talking - maybe it's already going on - about contracts, how much cubic meters can these contracts be and when may commercial (The Bell) start to deliver this gas pipeline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I understand they work for the country elsewhere. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Is it? Come on in and I'm sorry about the delicate... [[I'm coming, I'm coming. Mr Mishalski threw me off balance.]] Yeah, that's right. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! What the PO-PSL government has done to diversify energy sources, Mr Neumann has said, but it is only necessary to join in and say what you have done. You guys opened the Świnoujście gasport, cut the ribbon and gave a name, that's your contribution to the Świnoujście gasport. Now the question is, what else have you done? You're building a gas-port in Świnoujście, the whole investment is slipping. The question is, when will it be finished when the next gas tank in Świnoujście begins functioning? Baltic Pipe has already been asked by Mr Silchoń, I am asking about the collector when it comes to Lower Oder. When will Dolna Odra be connected to the Polish gas network? When will the current coming from the Lower Oder be produced from gas? The last case concerns Saudi Aramco, because I can't agree on that either. We sold Saudi Aramco 30% Lotus, but nobody in this room says they're entitled to up to 50%. fuels (the bell) that will be produced in Lotus. Saudi Aramco will be able to sell 50% fuel to anyone who buys. Russia has raw materials, but no fuel. What are we gonna do if Saudi Aramco wants to sell those fuel to Russia? 50% fuel produced in Lotus - or some quantity - will go to Russia. What effect do we have on this? I'd like an answer to that question, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The current decision of the President of URE is that he appointed Gas Storage Poland as a transmission system operator. It is valid until 22 May this year. What is the government going to do about it if this decision is soon to expire? And what about the decision of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection of March this year in the context of the merger of PGNiG with Orlen, requiring an independent investor to take over these warehouses and to deal with this issue? Minister! In January 2022, this House passed a bill to support whether it is already supporting PGNiG with nearly PLN 60 billion or over PLN 60 billion. I wanted to ask the Minister how these measures were already included today, in which formula and whether PGNiG already consumes the funds that we adopted at that time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. We all know there's not enough gas in the market. In the event of a reduction in the supply of coal from Russia, the whole European Union is looking for gas. I wanted to ask the Minister: What contracts are we signing today or what are we going to sign to protect Poland and, above all, the residents of households, from the lack of gas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I found Tusk's guilt. Here it turns out that Tusk, Donald Tusk, is guilty of creating a terminal in Świnoujście. That's what really is an indisputable fact. [[Applause]] [[It's a good one.]] Yes, there was also a reverse on Jamale, which caused us to receive gas from the western direction as well as from other directions. That's a specific question. We have a Europipe that leaves the Baltic Pipe. Please tell us whether in Europipe we have a guaranteed location and adequate amounts of gas that will be transported and received by Baltic Pipe. That's one thing. The second point is that the European gas system must also help Ukraine next year or this year. On the basis of the principle of European solidarity, is there a discussion within the European Union to absorb this gas from the European Union and direct it to Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Orlen's acquisition of PGNiG is also a danger of investing in gas grid connections. In response to my interpellation, the representatives of the Ministry say that next year there will be those joining much less. In 2021 there were 119 thousand of them. 69,000 are planned and 49,000 are planned for the following year. There was also positive information that the company would find additional money and information on this matter in a moment will be provided to both those awaiting public institutions and private individuals. Isn't this process gonna disrupt this gas grid connection issue? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second issue, concerning the elimination of these seven warehouses: What percentage in the overall network of warehouses are those which, according to the decision of the UOKiK, need to be disposed of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion submitted to the High Sejm, the government stated that the proposed regulation was not questionable. Well, it raises doubts and doesn't answer the basic question of how... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u50	Excuse me, sir. Listen, gentlemen. I value and respect everyone, but I really... Hello, Darek, Mr Supper. I wanted to tell you... [[Excuse me.]] ...dear he will say that if you were speaking and other Members were to stand back to you, you would not be pleased. I'm saying it politely. Please, let's just respect all the Members of all the clubs. Mr. Shopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u51	We have a basic question: How does the government intend to guarantee the energy security of Poland? That's what the Poles are asking, that's the basic question today. Is it clear by the fact that the proposed changes are only being discussed today that the ownership changes so far did not guarantee our owners, in the form of a state, full rights to manage the acquired assets, or was this management not in accordance with the applicable rules? And another issue that falls in this House: Who and what did he build? Today, Poles really don't care if it was built by the PiS or if it was built by the Platform. Today Poles are interested in why prices at fuel stations are so huge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today Poles are interested in whether Poland's energy security will be guaranteed. I think that the PiS and the Platform will agree one thing: that the North Port built Edward Gierek and Rafineria Gdańska also built Edward Gierek. That's what you didn't tell me. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: The dead are only spoken well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u52	And then there was silence. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about a terminal in Świnoujście, but in fact Poles and Poles are interested in what are the quantities of gas stored that are in tanks in Poland, how much they will be enough if gas supplies are cut off from all sides, from every direction: from the north, from the east, from the west, from the south, how much enough gas is stored for households and industry in Poland. They also ask how many contracts and how much at this moment the government guaranteed - when the gas from Russia ceased to flow. I would very much ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's best to tell the truth out of this podium. We thought that it was indeed the first time that Prime Minister Morawiecki would thank the governments of the Civic Platform and the PSL for building a gasport. Unfortunately, he didn't, but we're used to it. After all, Prime Minister Morawiecki forgot that he was the advisor to Prime Minister Donald Tusk. The Baltic Pipe issue. The Prime Minister also said that 10 billion m Okay, here's the thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you'll allow the marshal... I'm gonna keep coming up with that. Mr Marek Suski is also here. The issue of housing cooperatives, which are not covered by the tariff protection of the URE, which provide warmth to their residents, but buy gas from external operators. Ladies and gentlemen, 8,000. residents of the cooperative in Nowy Tomyśl get another raise from May 1st, and that's already a few hundred percent. Please do something about it, Mr. Chairman of the committee, the esteemed government. [[Applause]] There's 2111 print, draft bill. It's about us finally helping these people. Unfortunately, you haven't done anything in three months, and these people have been experiencing drama. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legal act has one purpose: to help take over Polish oil mining and gas industry by Orlen. You want to bring together two strategic companies that have a huge impact on our country's energy security at the worst moment. Behind our eastern border is war, and Russia has turned Poland's gas cock. The merger that is planned to be carried out will only cause additional problems in the current situation and may have a negative impact on the recipients. These are too big companies for the process of taking over one by one to go smoothly, without confusion and consequences. Give up your megalomaniac ideas and focus on the situation here and now. The basic question is: What strategy did you prepare for Poland (The Bell) to ensure energy security after yesterday's reports of gas interruption? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will ask two questions and ask you in advance to answer in writing, because from the merger committee - in accordance with Article. 152 - in which I asked these questions, I did not get any answers. I therefore ask you to answer in writing. Firstly, I would like to ask you what dividend benefits the Treasury will have after the merger of all these companies. Because I'll remind you that now in PGNiG the State Treasury has 73% , in Energa - 52% , in Lotus - 53% , and in PKN Orlen - 27.5%. What will be the dividend structure after the merger? Is there an answer to that? How will the Treasury's interests be secured? Because you want the Treasury to be a big player, and that's why you do it. Second question: Has President Obejtek finally answered the social side, the workers who are very concerned about this merger? They do not share the direction of change (the bell), they are surprised and ask for partner treatment. At the committee meeting, they were just giving out letters, visiting our offices. Was what President Obejtek said was done to the social side? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! IV cadence, 102nd meeting, 3rd day, 6 May 2005, 29th item of the agenda, first reading of the civil draft law on restructuring and privatisation of the Elektrociepnów Team in Łódź SA. What was that? It was the opposition of the inhabitants of Łódź to the sale of heat and power plants by the company's left. Under the rule of the Platform, 10 heating plants were sold, 10 of the largest heating plants in Poland were sold today. Now we're buying it back. Why are you afraid of the Polish Energy Concerto? Why are you so intensely afraid that there will be an entity that will be a player on the European and global markets? I also do not understand why you are afraid that transmission networks, all issues related to decisions, concessions will be taken over by one Polish entity, that gas networks will be Polish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u63	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think we will run out of awards in Poland for the breasts of people who say how they contribute to the construction of various elements of the state structure. Let me remind you, they're paying us for this. We are here just to develop Poland, and let's get breasts out somewhere else. I will remind you that according to official data the decision to build the gasport was taken by the government of Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz in 2006, the rest continued all this. However, the merger of such large companies and institutions must involve something. Last year, PGNiG had liquidity problems. Is the main obstacle to this merger, the fact that Polish gas industry actually has huge problems that could end in a wasteland, and will it be necessary to use Orlen's assets, or is it a political philosophy in which there is (The Bell) one source of management - the government managing the huge economic sphere of gas and liquid fuels? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, before Putin disconnected the gas flowing to Poland, at a meeting with the Commissioner for Energy, the entire opposition called on the government to immediately cut off imports of gas from Russia. And Putin fulfilled your wish, cut Poland off from the gas. I don't know how you got that kind of information, if it was in the agreement... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...but, ladies and gentlemen, now that these various demands have been met, one would have to ask, what if this merger had not taken place? Of course, after cutting off the gas, I agree that this is a difficult, difficult time, a time of war, but if not now, then when? If we do not achieve this, will Poland be safe? Of course I understand that, according to the opposition, even war, high gas prices (the bell), oil at stations - it is all the fault of the PiS. As if you didn't notice that there's a war going on outside our eastern border, and this action is also used by Putin of gas blackmail, which he uses as weapons of mass destruction, and we're subject to it, in this war. You should help Poland... [[We're helping.]] ...and not do everything to support Putin with your stupid conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u66	Thank you. Mr Jacek Czerniak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that our country's energy security is out of the question, and that's probably the topic that we should have in common. But in the context of this statement, a few questions are raised about this merger. If the President of the UOKiK issued a conditional decision to take over PGNiG by Orlen, and I will remind you, it was already stated that in this conditional decision is an obligation to sell to an independent operator control of Gas Storage Poland, then I ask: Does an independent operator mean a Polish operator? Because I wouldn't want to see the situation that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said today. The point is that gas storage in Germany is in different hands. Isn't there a danger in this context that (The bell) the control package will be taken over by someone else and the situation in Poland will be similar? I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u68	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 30 March, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that he would present the most ambitious derusification plan for hydrocarbons in Europe, namely coal, gas and oil, but that plan, in addition to the coal embargo, has not yet been presented. Waiting for this non-existent plan, I think even Vladimir Putin was impatient and today he stopped the supply of gas to Poland. And the Prime Minister, instead of the plan, told us what? Propaganda campaign. He released tow trucks driven by Russian oil in Europe: stop Russian oil. Prime Minister Morawiecki! That's right: stop the Russian oil. As Greens and the Civic Coalition, we ask: Where is the exact plan of gas security of Poland, in details? Where's the plan to get away from Russian oil? When will the blood money, or blood money (the bell), about which you write on the tow trucks stop coming from Poland to Putin? Where is the support for the development of cheap Polish alternative options for fossil fuels, where the electrification of transport, where a million electric cars? Stop Russian oil, Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will refer to Mr. Marek Suski's statement. Mr. Speaker! In this difficult time before you formulate anything about the opposition, think about it. Your statements... [[Voice from the room: But it's impossible.]] I know this is hard, but at this difficult time, you have to think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some comments on this bill. First of all, my biggest remark: Why are you once again taking a very fast path? Why is this a parliamentary project and why do you not want to consult, discuss it, especially since this project will be essential for Poland over many years? This is the first element. The second element. I am very opposed to monopolistic politicians. I fear that, in the absence of internal competition, the effect will be that today we will have higher prices for petrol and diesel at stations, our homes will flow (the bell) much more expensive electricity, and this will be earned by a monopolistic company of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u72	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to stand up for Mr Suski, because there is a shadow of hope in this statement. Indeed, the Member has mentioned this, and I assume that the PiS in this situation thinks that this is not a good time for such consolidation. In fact, this is not a good time. You ask the Member: When do you want to do this? Do it next year, there's no problem, nothing's gonna happen. That's why we have two questions. First question: What are the reasons why PGNiG refuses to connect both private entities, houses, apartments and companies to the gas network, giving 2-year waiting dates? This is very important from the point of view of Poland's economic development. The second point concerns Orlen's financial resources and debt. Isn't it that this connection is needed to save Orlen, who today is in debt for 12 billion PLN? [[♪ The bell ♪]] One final point: the safety of all deposits outside the country. Does the Ministry have guarantees that such a connection will lead us to be able to use all these deposits safely? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth about the rule of law and justice in terms of energy security is that you're just taking it step-by-step. You treat them in the short term, without a strategic plan, and mergers or consolidations, such as this merger, do not give us a chance to answer the question of what will happen in a moment, a long time, five years or ten years. Speech should be, among others. about those warehouses that are supposed to keep us safe today at the cornered jamal pipeline tap. During the merger, the warehouses will have to change owners. The ownership structure of a specific and sensitive place in the energy security structure will have to change. Isn't it that you want to plan a sale to foreign capital today and deny what the Prime Minister said today? Or are you planning to make a jump on whether or not you're going to privatize these magazines? Please answer these questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u77	The question is: What will be the ownership structure of what will arise, if it is recalled, in the case of Orlen less than 30% belongs to the State Treasury, and in the case of PGNiG, the proportion is the opposite, what will the result of this equation be? What is the safety brake, i.e. What are the guarantees that all this business will not be hostilely taken over if the State Treasury were a minority shareholder in this undertaking? Mr Rozenek asks you questions and blames you for your lack of professional ability. Maybe because in 2010 he whispered something in his ear at the Wałdajski Club himself Włodzimierz Putin. So now it has to be more papal than the Pope - who says it and who asks who? It's worth the palace, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking you to answer my question, if not from this pulpit, it's in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the ownership structure? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Four specific questions, which I would very much like to ask in writing. First: Does PGNiG have today signed contracts at 10 billion m Second question: Are there gas deposits in Poland that are not used and which can be used at any time? How much more gas could we get out of these? Another question: How much more could we increase the extraction from existing gas deposits when this year's heating period comes? The fourth, last question: Is PGNiG considering, as part of its strategy, the use of a natural geological creation in Marianowo County, which could be another gas tank that we could collect as a reserve? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes it is worth going back to history to know where we really are today and why. At the beginning of September 2001 PGNiG and five Norwegian companies signed a contract for delivery, note: 74 billion m
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Maciej Małecki. I'll ask the Minister kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by reminding you once again that the merger: Orlen, Lotos and PGNiG and the construction of a strong, multi-energy group is a Polish state right. Other countries have long gone through this path - the French Total, Norwegian Equinor, Italian ENI and Hungarian MOL have been consolidated. Most of these consolidations were based on easier legal security. In Poland such a merger should take place even before the entry into the European Union, because we could talk about an even stronger company and even more strengthening the energy security of Poland. It is such a truism to remind that it is in Polish interest that one entity, not a few, is seated to talk to suppliers of oil, products or services to the Polish concern, rather than a larger one, rather than a few smaller ones. You called for a comparison close to you Gazprom, because you signed contracts with it - if there were several smaller companies on the Russian side instead of one Gazprom, it would be for the benefit of Europe. But we do know - in fact, there are decisions on the Kremlin. And this is the last moment to build a company in Poland that will be able to integrate its value chain - from exploration, through extraction, refineries, petrochemicals, energy, to detail and wholesale. And that's what we're doing. Hence the need to connect Orlen, Lotus, PGNiG and Energi, which is already in Orlena. I know that it is difficult to accept those people who have been looking at the East for years, the connection between Poland and Gazprom and weak Polish companies. It is difficult to reconcile with a strong multi-energy Polish concern to people who wanted to sell Lotus to the Russians, because it will not work anymore. It must be said very clearly - Donald Tusk's plan, expressed in words: there is no ideological reason not to sell Lotus to the Russians, will have no chance of success after the merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG. [[Applause]] And concern, suddenly concern for security of gas supply from Russia nevertheless enjoys... after cutting off gas supply from Russia care about the Polish gas market nevertheless enjoys - better later than never. But where will the gas come from if the Russian deliveries are cut off? Norway, the United States, Qatar, Australia. There was a question in the debate about how the government is preparing today whether the government is preparing for a scenario to cut gas supplies from Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a wrong question. We've been preparing for this scenario for a long time. It was President Lech Kaczyński, who was attacked by you, after another gas blackmail, Putin initiated the construction of a gas terminal in Świnoujście. It was the Government of Law and Justice that returned to the talks with the Norwegians about the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't have had a quiet night tonight, we wouldn't have had a quiet gas supply tonight, even though Putin had turned on the Russian side. The gas terminal, once again, initiated the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. And I'll remind you, since you want to tell me so much that you built a terminal in Świnoujście that you can... [[That's because we built it.]] ...something to build quickly, you mark that something is being built, and you can drag something out. [[Ostrołęka.]] [[Voice from the room: Jaworzno.]] The Treasury Commission, 28 March 2012, I ask Donald Tusk's government representative about the time of handing over the terminal in Świnoujście and we hear the answer: 30 June 2014, there is no mercy for this deadline. Government of Donald Tusk - mid-2014 You left the terminal after the lost elections in a harsh state, it couldn't function. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The government of law and justice has activated it. I, uh... [[Minister, but mercy, mercy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have sympathy for your work on the committee, but to... [[Voice from the hall: Truth in the eyes of the circle?]] ...some things to sort out, to the Platform and PSL politicians I should address: the expensive coalition Gazprom 2037. If your plan to chain Poland to Putin by 2037 entered into force if your evil contract with Gazprom entered into force as you wanted, we would still have to look at the East for 15 years instead of the West. And if there was a plan for your contract, we would not be talking about the Baltic Pipe pipeline for 15 years, we would not be talking about safe deliveries by an extended terminal in Świnoujście, we would not talk about interconnectors with Lithuania - this one starts in early May - and with Slovakia - it starts in the third quarter of this year - because we would still be dependent on Putin, there would be no space for gas other than Russian gas in the Polish market. And let me remind you, it was a contract. If you don't, you pay Putin for it anyway. And I ask, please, in the Polish Seym, not to use Putin's war, not to use Putin's gas attack on his own country to attack the government. [[And we're asking you not to lie.]] I'm asking you to. When Vladimir Putin blackmailed the whole of Europe with the cut-off of gas supplies in the autumn, Polish warehouses were crowded the most throughout the European Union, because we did not sell the magazines to Gazprom like other countries. By the way, because here the topic of Gas Storage Poland was discussed - the magazines will still be in PGNiG, only the operator will change, and it will change in such a way that it is safe for the Polish country. PGNiG, Orlen, Lotos - a company that will have revenues of more than PLN 200 billion per year, a company whose EBITDA will result at the level of PLN 20 billion, a company which will be able to take on a significant part of the energy transformation challenges of our country. Hydrogen, hydrogen technology, biogas, offshore. These challenges can be met jointly. [[When?]] There will be several smaller companies that will race and still compete in similar projects. After the merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG, the larger Orlen will enter the extraclasse of fuel companies in Europe and will be a stronger and much more dangerous, in this market sense, rival to others who have already divided this market in a significant way. The law that we are discussing today, about which practically no questions have been asked, is intended to help carry out the concession on such a large scale. If we are talking about the current legal situation, the rules allow for the transfer of concessions between businesses operating on a smaller scale, while PGNiG has 250 geological concessions. That's 13,500. administrative decisions and acts relating to the concession activity. The title was mocked by some, it was ridiculed that this was the gas terminal in Świnoujście, and yet as far as this terminal bill is concerned, PGNiG has some tasks there, such as the expansion of gas warehouses, the construction of ground technical infrastructure, and the construction of pipelines linking storage facilities and the construction of storage chambers. Norwegian concessions. I remind you that the owner of the Norwegian concession is PGNiG Norway. She's not gonna disappear, she's just gonna have another mother's company. Today is PGNiG, then there will be Orlen. These conversations with the Norwegians are ongoing. I think that if Vladimir Putin could choose a scenario today, he would want Poland to abandon a project that will increase the energy security of our country under its gas blackmail, under pressure from the war in Ukraine. We not only do not want to interrupt the merger process of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG, but we want this process to accelerate and bring to an end. Not only to realize synergies in these hydrogen, offshore or methane areas, but also to make Orlen and Lotos the biggest PGNiG gas customers after the next investments. These are joint processes in the offshore area. This is a series of actions, to put it simply, to negotiate oil contracts. One entity sits down, one company that buys more oil, and can put harder conditions, because there will be no other company which will also compete for the same contract on the Polish market. Poland is the last country in the European Union, which has two companies: Lotos, Orlen, operating on the same market, owned by the same owner. It has been the government of Law and Justice since the first days since it assumed responsibility for the state in 2015, has accelerated the implementation of all investments related to the energy security of Poland. In the oil case, we passed this test three years ago when the oil from Russia came in dirty with chlorides. Poland could do without Russian oil for a number of weeks. Also today, when Russia turned off the gas cocks, we can talk about the gas system running unchanged. It's just gas flows from other directions than Russian. The terminal is constantly being expanded. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście. There's a Baltic Pipe pipeline on the finish line. On the finish line is, it is a matter of days, the launch of the Polish-Lithuanian interconnector, and the issue of the coming months is the launch of the Polish-Slovak interconnector. There's also domestic extraction. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that some of these questions, or actually the vast majority, as I said, are not for this bill, are not about this debate, but I have tried to answer them. On the other hand, as regards the law itself, the Ministry of State Assets, the Minister of State Assets supports the parliamentary bill and asks the High House to accept this project by thanking the applicant, Mr Marek Suski, for the provisions that will facilitate the merger of Orlen with PGNiG, but will also remain in the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You haven't answered any questions. Please write it in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country (prints No 2198 and 2201). I would very much like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. Mr President, if you'd like to come in. Thank you very much for coming to the Sejm. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country, print No 2198. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 26 April this year the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading with a recommendation to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be examined on 27 April this year. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law today, i.e. At its meeting on 27 April this year, it asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. A few words of information. The Act is one of the amendments or amendments to the Act, which will certainly also have its next shapes in the coming weeks. This was also announced as a government proxy by Minister Chezernaker. This, of course, is an important element. All these matters, which are very important and are in this bill, are handled in a rather rapid manner. Today they were adopted by the committee, and this is in quite a broad consensus, which also gives reasons all the time that we will be working, I hope, until the end when we will have to work on this assistance to the Ukrainians in this manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u86	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Kaleta from Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u87	High Izbo! If you're helping quickly, you're helping twice. This is a law that does not raise, as the rapporteur of the committee has said, some controversy, although from this meeting of the committee today, and also from our debate, not only this, but also from the previous ones, it appears that it is an extremely sensitive act with regard to its amendment, that it can be amended several times not only because of the most important element, which is the term of its validity, but also because this law is dedicated to the citizens of Ukraine as a result of war, and war is unpredictable. Therefore, this is how we approach it, that we need to react quickly, we need to react in advance and we also need to react simply in substance. That's why I'd really like us to work on this bill as soon as possible so she can get out of here. As soon as possible, he will go to the Senate, so that the Senate, which is starting its sitting today, can take care of it quickly, so that we can quickly maintain all the matters that have already been included in this bill. Without further delay, I would like to declare on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that we will fully support the bill. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have announced during the last work of the committee, we are back to this bill. We need to create it because of the dynamic situation, because of the nature of the records. And that is what we do, of course, with full openness and understanding of the issue, understanding what is happening. In addition, we have expressed our views on the work and the provisions of the Act. Of course, we also expressed our opinion on the nature of the host's amendments not introduced by the host law, but with full understanding and acceptance of the technical requirements, the technical expectations of the government regarding the smooth transfer of aid. Ladies and gentlemen! The report was presented by the rapporteur to the committee. We will, of course, have further work ahead of us, further work that will be further deepened, which will be the result of deeper analysis. May, I think. That is what Minister Chefnernaker said at today's committee meeting. We're not gonna make any adjustments. It is important that this help is made effective and quickly to people who organize help for people from Ukraine. We are also in favour of this control system being effective so that, despite the assurances that the declaration is punishable by criminal law, there are ICT tools that will fully secure the circulation of the system so that we know what is happening with this money so that the effect is commensurate with expectations. So we won't make any adjustments. We're hoping for an instant adoption of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the New Left Messenger Club, I have the honour of presenting our position in relation to the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country. Indeed, we are proceeding over this law at an express rate. When we called a committee meeting yesterday, we hadn't printed yet. We knew this print would come to us. He hit in the afternoon, and this morning we had a meeting of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. Corrections have been made. We have clarified that this issue of information should be explicitly and clearly stated that it concerns municipalities, so that municipalities can also obtain this information, so that they can be sure that PESEL is only broadcast once, that this aid is not granted twice, because I suspect that this is the concern about the fact that we also have this IT system. In addition, it is the most important thing for us, i.e. to extend the possibility of financing refugees' stay in the accommodation by another 60 days. I think a lot of people have been waiting for this, because for the first people who were accommodated on 25 February, on 25 April the deadline ended. It's been two days. True, as we know, invoicing is after a month, but there were also a lot of questions addressed to us as to whether there is still a possibility. And, of course, at the committee meeting, there were questions as to whether the government intended to extend this deadline. Let's hope he doesn't extend it, although we don't hide it as a club either, Minister, that we're looking forward to the big amendment you promised. The point is, firstly, to accept some of the amendments that we discussed at the committee's meeting, but also those that were to be in the Senate, but were not notified that the law would enter into force very quickly. I'd like to say that on behalf of my club, I'm not going to make any amendments. At the same time, we are in favour of adopting this law so that it is passed today so that tomorrow it can be adopted without amendments to the Senate. The idea is to make sure that people continue to finance their stay. I think we owe it to those people who are insecure at the moment, but also Poles who have taken these people under their roof and do not know if they will still be able to maintain them. So that my club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Wiesław Szczepański. I also thank you as the chairman of the committee who prepared this draft law - thank you very much - and discussed it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for you. We're half an hour behind schedule. The proceedings are planned to be held today until noon. 1:00 a.m. Because this is a bill that doesn't wake up, as I see it, a lot of emotions, I would kindly ask you to try to finish it by hours. 12.45. We have 17 questions and an answer from the Ministry. If you could, as politely as I ask, shorten your statements, then the people who will be sitting today will be sitting at an hour. 1 a.m., they won't be sitting at 1 p.m. Three o'clock in the morning. That's all I'm asking. Here you go, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives, the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country, which is included in the Seym printing no. 2198. We are in favour of quick help, but also of efficient control. We also believe that helping one person will not change the whole world, but it can change the world for one person. That's why my club's gonna support the government bill, and we're not gonna make any amendments. We hope that these actions will actually be effective and will allow for the rapid assimilation and emancipation of Ukrainian citizens who are located with us in the Republic of Poland. As the Minister said at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, 1600-1800 thousand live in the territory of the Republic of Poland at the moment. Ukrainian citizens, about 950 thousand. PESEL has already been obtained from them. So there is a lot of work, a lot of action, but there is also a need for effective control and verification of all these data. Therefore, I am glad that the amendment of this law gives such instruments also to Polish local governments. We extend the duration of this benefit for food and accommodation by another 60 days, up to 120 days. I hope that these actions, which are currently taking place in Ukraine, will actually allow Ukrainian citizens who are in the territory of the Polish state to be able to return to their country soon, that the actions that take place in the territory of Ukraine will indeed end quickly. We hope that the cruelty that happens there, in Ukraine, will not be accepted by the whole world and that it will soon end. We support this bill, we do not make any amendments, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, Jarosław Kaczyński said that Poland will actually accept every amount of refugees from Ukraine, that it will not seek to transfer even some of them to other European countries. And he also said we could afford it because we're three times richer than Ukraine. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Mr Morawiecki then said that we must allocate another tens of billions of zlotys for this purpose. In turn, when it comes to opposition, for example. Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz gave the thesis that the Polish-Ukrainian Union should be built, and that the Platform, the Left and the other forces of the centre-left opposition have nodded. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I have a question for you: Have you all gone crazy? Don't you see what happens in Polish homes, don't you see the costs that Poles bear? They bear the costs which are the result of printing by you without remembering the money for 2 years. Inflation, expensive, esteemed countrymen, that's the effect of government policy, which is printing money for two years. And today, according to this law, you want to print more tens of billions of zlotys, all together according to: government with left-liberal opposition. [[Voice from the room: But that's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: But why are you lying? It's not in this bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that, of course, it is in Polish interest for Russia to lose this war, but that does not mean that Polish business is identical at any time with Ukrainian interest. It is true that we should help war refugees, but that does not mean that we agree to mass settlement of Ukrainians in Poland, because this is the plan that you are implementing. It is true that we must help the Ukrainians, but for God's sake, here is Poland. Stop putting the economic interests of foreign citizens above the interests of your own citizens. We're filing a motion to reject this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u96	Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u97	Yes, sir. A stable veto. This is no longer helping refugees, this is a mass resettlement operation. Dear and dear Member, you are talking about assimilation. Polish self-government authorities at my place, in Podkarpacie, are considering buying printed books in Ukrainian for Ukrainian kindergarteners. School heads are pushing teachers to promote incompetent students, it's not their fault, it's their Polish language to the next class. Separate schools are organized. The Ambassador of the Ukrainian State disposes of real estate in Poland. Stop this madness because we will lose the sharpness of border contours of the Republic of Poland (Dawn) and the sharpness of concepts such as sovereignty and independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u99	It may be worth strengthening the need to help these people as well. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Yesterday evening, on the eve of the sitting, there is a seismic print on the amendment of an important law. In the morning, before the meeting of the Administrative Commission, there were additional amendments from the Ministry of Digitalization, unsigned, which would surprise you, Minister, and the entire team of your employees. The amendment of the Ukrainian specialty extends to 120 days the provision of assistance to those who host refugees from Ukraine. It is pleased that the government website used the tip of the Polska 2050 wheel. On 7 April, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, I tabled an amendment exactly like this. I appealed then and said that it would soon be two months after the war broke out, and many people might have trouble financing longer stays. Too bad, Minister, that's when you said, "Why 120 days and not 90 days?" You have also added that a system solution will be prepared in cooperation with local authorities and, unfortunately, ironically, that the opposition cannot estimate the costs of such an amendment. [[A voice from the room: 'Cause he can't.]] There is still no systemic solution, and the extension of the benefit is accepted a few days after 60 days after the first refugees arrived in Poland. Neither the number of refugees nor the number of hosts to whom the benefit will be granted nor even the approximate cost of the law for the state budget can still be estimated. This is due to the so-called printing act attached to the draft law. impact assessment. Look, there's empty fields here. We will, of course, support this project, because this amendment is needed, just as this law is needed. We do not propose amendments at this point, but we support them with satisfaction because you have taken advantage of our proposal. But I repeat, there was nothing to prevent her from accepting her earlier, definitely earlier. We don't expect congratulations, because perhaps otherwise. We understand the handshake, but I have a request, Minister, make use of our amendments more often. Use the opposition's clues because they contain good solutions, and the Circle Parliamentary Poland 2050 does not hide draft amendments to any seymous cabinets, to safes or to these legendary seym freezers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, near the Polish Case. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u101	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle of Cases against a proceded interventional, crisis act extending the support of Polish citizens in really caring and helping refugees in our country. It is a law that must be adopted, because there is no other option, simply you cannot put people who are, live, have a roof over their head and a meal - which we owe our neighbors, because we also have weapons in part of our borders - to set up. Our citizens must have the support of this little state service in terms of effective care, because it is actually a cheaper and more effective solution, and it really allows people to provide decent conditions of functioning or support for our neighbours. Of course, we will support this bill because I cannot imagine that these families will have to leave homes where they feel safe for a while, but I appeal to the Minister - I think that all politicians - to start thinking strategically already, because President Biden, and all foreign politicians, whom we can somehow listen to, say that this war will not be short. We as a Polish nation, who has taken on a very great burden of supporting our neighbours and helping them, need to know that we will have a long-term strategy to avoid social conflicts. Peace in our country, which has also been shaken by the war, is a priority because it is about the safety of our citizens. Therefore, it is worth considering a long-term strategy, worked out together, over political divisions - because this is the Polish right of state - with NGOs, with local governments, I think with each of the policy options. For our part, we declare our willingness to cooperate on this issue. It is a housing policy, a policy related to education and health protection - three priorities that will assume that war can last for a long time and we will have to operate in this situation not on the basis of ad hoc crisis laws, only a serious strategy that will allow us to avoid social conflicts and try to exploit the potential - I know that it sounds a little irrational, but it is worth focusing on this - the Polish village, Polish local authorities, citizens, but also Ukrainians who are here, in order to build a common sense of security and opposition to Russia's aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Winnicki kindly asked if we were crazy. Mr President, I would answer with a question, whether you are blind or deaf, because you certainly can't count on it. Indeed, a large number of refugees, some 1,700 thousand. - that's less than 5% Polish population. If Poland had public services at a sufficiently good level, as left-wing parties have been saying for ever and what they are complaining about, it would be no problem for the public administration and public services system in Poland to accept this number of refugees in a dramatic, extraordinary and unpredictable situation. Of course, it would be something that would be a challenge, just as the challenge is appropriate legal instrumentation, but nothing else and nothing else. I no longer want to talk about the Polish state right, because this is an argument commonly used, known and this is an argument which, it seems, does not reach the politicians of the Confederation. You don't want to hear it, your case, the voters will settle for you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PPS Parliamentary Circle will certainly support this law. Of course, we will not make any amendments. We want this law to be dealt with quickly and without undue delay. And to the government, just a question and a request for a written reply: How much money have we received so far from the European Union - not new money, but money at all? What support from the European Union or other international organisations can we talk about at the end of the month? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u104	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Nineteen people came in. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Please, Mr Waldy Dzikowski of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u105	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Understanding the need to extend the provisions of the Act due to the situation in Ukraine, I wanted to ask questions on this occasion. Well, Minister, by the municipalities, this task is commissioned, the PESEL numbers are assigned. What is the situation at the moment with regard to the statistics on the given PESEL numbers? What does the government's refinancing of local governments look like for this task commissioned by the Aid Fund? The second task, which is carried out by social assistance centres, is now being carried out with a slight delay. It is about what the Minister is saying, which is about extending the period, it is about 40 PLN per entity or family in which our friends from Ukraine are staying. I would therefore ask you very much to also determine the state of implementation of the law in this respect, what is the situation on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u107	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is a good decision - to extend to 120 days the payment date of the cash benefit for accommodation and meals of Ukrainians who found a safe house in Poland. But I would like to ask the Minister if there is work to be done on long-term solutions. [[Voice from the room: They continue.]] We know that when it comes to Warsaw itself - these are the latest research that was carried out on behalf of the city - 7% Warsaw took refugees from Ukraine into their homes, about 100,000. Ukrainians live in Warsaw houses. But, of course, this situation cannot last forever. What solutions do you work out in cooperation with the local government to ensure accommodation in the following periods, in the following months after this period of 120 days, which provides for the amendment of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked you questions on the committee, but when you left, you said that you didn't really understand them and that you would answer them in writing, so let me clarify, because I would like to get an answer to questions that you would understand, Minister. The first concerns those Ukrainians who stayed in Poland before 24 February. I mean, is... These are the people who suffered through the war too, they can't go home. Does the Ministry plan to include the Ukrainians who were here before February 24th? And a second question about them. Many of these people, several, several thousand, applied for the so-called. long visas - one year, two years or three years old. I hear there's a rumor that the work on issuing these visas has been stopped. I'd like to know if they've been stopped or if they're still working on it. As for those who came here after 24 February, it is known that the bill passes to those who accepted them, for 40 PLN per head. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is: Are there any entities in Poland that receive a different rate...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u111	...for hosting Ukrainians in their homes or in their homes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u112	I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u113	And if so, what are the rates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u114	Thank you, sir. You see, I'm cutting. I don't do it very often, but we're really in a hurry. Hello, seventh grade from Szczecin. Welcome. [[Applause]] It's nice of you to be with us. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, We are on the 63rd day of the beastly invasion of the Russian Federation on Ukraine. This law is needed because it builds citizens' confidence in the state and builds the right relationships between the actors and civil society who have taken care of our friends from Ukraine because of the war. The Spec Act and its amendment provide for a number of instruments related to the socio-professional activation of our friends from Ukraine who are here. I wanted to ask if this element of public aid for refugees could be said to have moved on? Has he started in cooperation with county labour offices, municipal authorities, NGOs? Secondly, I would like to ask for statistics on the aid granted in Wielkopolska, broken down by county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, on the committee, we talked about this bill. Minister, I would very much like to ask for information on the money that the Polish government has paid by 24 April for providing accommodation and meals for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Until 26 April.]] [[No, until the 24th... and, by April 26th, I'd really like to ask.]] Oh, what a nice exchange. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This bill is needed. The opposition has been talking about this for a long time, it has been necessary to think earlier about the fact that it is necessary to extend the validity of these financial allowances related to Russia's aggression to Ukraine and the stay of refugees from Ukraine. But I would have a question about whether it was not possible - I no longer propose an amendment - to consider such a wording in this law, which would automatically prolong it in the event that this need for another extension would occur, because if the conflict lasts longer than these 3 months, we will meet again in 3 months and we will survive déj? vu that you have to prolong it again. Could it not be written so that if necessary (the bell) it will be automatically extended? That's what I'm proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u120	Thank you very much. Thank you, madam. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u121	Minister! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, you informed that the government spent PLN 1 billion in support of local governments in connection with the Ukrainians' taking up of refugees from Ukraine. Given the number of people - at least 2 million - and the period, we'd have a mountain somewhere. 300-350 PLN per citizen of Ukraine, so quite little. This raises the question, and this question is all the more important because many of these people simply do not have the means to live and need support in the form of benefits that have been adopted. What do you propose to do to make this money go faster? Because the benefits of PLN 40 for taking up one Ukrainian citizen should already be spent somewhere within 1.5 billion. So this aid is flowing, it seems, too slow, the funds are passed on too slowly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a problem. Besides, you've been briefed on this at a number of moments by manually controlling the flow of money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u122	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir, very kind. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one has any doubt that refugees from Ukraine in our country should be helped. The extension of up to 120 days of the period for which a cash benefit may be granted for providing accommodation and catering to the nationals of that country is the right solution, but after that period it will no longer be possible to extend the payment. The question is: What's next? The European Union has authorised the transfer of funds from the current programmes to support the Ukrainians and to mobilise unused funds from previous years. In order to obtain it, you had to submit an application. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: Has the government submitted to Brussels an official request for additional funds for Poland for aid to refugees? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, then when did it happen? The document was submitted and for what amount? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u124	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The preliminary map of the deployment of Ukrainian refugees in Poland informs and gives the knowledge which cities and metropolitan areas chose refugees themselves or with the help of their friends and loved ones. A lot of questions arise. How is the government going to help these local governments, and how will it help them? I am speaking on this issue because I am convinced that there is a need for systematic, planned logistical, supply and financial reinforcement. How, without waiting for the summary of the financial year, to change the tax algorithm so as to give earlier proportional financial support to local governments? How to increase the participation of personal and financial assistance where more doctors are urgently needed, medical, epidemiological, laboratory, police, city guards, teachers, transport and service providers of various industries? Solstice is expected in all areas. What does the government intend to do to ensure that the population of these cities and areas does not explode (the Bell) with discouragement when it comes to hospitality towards refugees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u126	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions regarding the amendment of this law. One thing: Can you say, because we are talking here about hundreds of millions, even more than 1 billion, that is, the thicker resources that the Polish government allocates and allocates to support Poles who are helping mothers and children from Ukraine, what is the compensation of these funds by EU funds, by the European Union, so loudly promised support? And second question: Until when can Polish families who take up families from Ukraine submit applications for reimbursement of funds for maintenance? Is there a deadline for these applications? If people came, for example. February 25th, is there a time which is the time limit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u129	As the only one against the united coalition of the COVID-war we oppose the next law from the Ukrainian+ series and ask about the costs. Now that we're up to 3 million visitors, newcomers, displaced people whom you bring here, organizing demand for them under the pretext of helping the victims of war, since we're up to 3 million, and since the Ministry is reporting the amount... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Please step down.]] ...60 billion a year costs - this is the Polish defence budget - what are the forecasts and what would be the more detailed timetable? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And your marshal, who is in such a hurry that he did not allow his colleague Winnick to be formally justified to refer to the insinuations that are falling here in front of him and our formation, I will ask: Mr. Marshal, since the rules are so foreign to you and you don't care, this God, you sighed here today... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the hall: The Trade Fair Confederation.]] I wanted to tell you on behalf of the Polish Sejm that using words to Ukrainians that the Polish government organizes demand for them in Poland... [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] ...is a scandal. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! There were scandalous words here. A true Pole and a true patriot are helping Ukraine and Ukrainians today, who are fighting for our freedom, who are fighting against the invader today, Putin. Ladies and gentlemen! 3 million Ukrainians crossed the border, 2 million of them are in Poland, 1 million of them received PESEL. Thanks to those nearly 600,000. Polish families who accepted refugees under their roof. This law extends the aid period to 120 days and requires, of course, an adjustment. Secondly, support and acceleration also require direct payments for those who have arrived, for our guests from Ukraine, mainly women and children. Most of them haven't received any help yet. Thirdly, I would like to appeal once again. In thousands of places in Poland... I myself run together with volunteers, dozens of people in Lublin, as part of the action: Lublin solidarity with Ukraine, almost 60th day, aid action, volunteering - it is about food (the bell), about the necessary help that goes to Ukraine, which Poles use every day. I'm asking the Minister, too, to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u133	...there were resources for this...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u134	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u135	...so as not to waste this great potential of thousands of Polish volunteers who are helping on a daily basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u136	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Three short questions. First: When will Ukrainians receive one-off benefits or one-off benefits that are provided for in the Act? Second: Will people who do not have a PESEL number and do not want to apply for a PESEL number also receive such benefits? Third: When will non-governmental organisations that take care of Ukrainians every day and carry out a number of tasks in helping Ukrainians get any help? Because there aren't any such competitions announced yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is, of course, necessary, and aid is important, and it is important that it arrives, because the legal framework that we are adopting here is for aid to flow. And with this help, Minister, believe me, there are problems. I was involved in this case in Małopolska. With poor results. These 300 PLN did not enter the Ukrainians for Easter - according to our calendar, not their calendar. If you're interested in what this case looks like, I can show you exactly, I've spoken to voivode Kmita, and I'm really surprised that you're... I don't know where the blockages are, or the Ministry of Finance, or... These flows are just problematic. An advance of 20%. We know how many PESEL numbers are given, we know how many people there are in each municipality, and the funds to these municipalities do not flow - neither for this one-off aid of 300 PLN, nor for those 40 PLN per capita. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u141	...something's affected this week, but it's very small. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u142	I invite Mr Mirosław Suchonia, Poland 2050. Are you Mr Mirosław Suchoń? Mr Mirosław Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Michael, not Mirosław, very nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u144	I wanted to apologize to you. Of course, Michael. Sorry, my mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u145	No problem, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u146	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u147	No problem. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm addressing the Minister. The law introduced 40 PLN per day for the host in the Polish house of a Ukrainian citizen who escaped from the war. And it's very good that this bill has been introduced. But at the same time, you brought chaos into it by law and regulation. The provision of funds to municipalities was not provided for, training in the field of the law was not organised, some applications were not translated into Ukrainian, applications received and verified can only be dealt with by employees of the municipality's office. These were the votes of local government officials after the introduction of the law and regulation to it. The Ombudsman pointed out that there was no indication in the law of the form of refusal to grant the benefit. The regulation imposed a decision on the municipality whether the payment of the benefit was subject to additional conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No central register of applicants. Some of these errors have, of course, been corrected in the meantime. But I have a question: could you for once introduce a law and regulation...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u149	...which doesn't create chaos? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u150	Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition. And I apologize again for changing my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These gigantic deposits of energy, the help that were in the beginning and which still are, will slowly run out. Therefore, the system solutions that the government must propose are extremely important. Minister! I call once again for the use of local government and NGOs. According to various studies, about several hundred thousand of our friends from Ukraine will be staying in Poland for a longer period. Therefore, my conclusion: we must teach these people Polish. I am talking about this because in front of my office, Minister, I started learning Polish for the Ukrainians and it enjoys a huge interest. Every office has its limits. I suggest that you consider doing this in a systematic manner to use Polish institutions. I am talking about those people (The Bell) who do not learn Polish in schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All Poles helping the people of Ukraine deserve the Nobel Prize. All of us who have opened our hearts are, as I understand it, great people. We're not counting our help - and that's good. However, I have a question to the Minister: Has Poland applied to the European Union for European funds which can be reimbursed for what we are doing for the Ukrainians? Did Poland send such a request to the European Union? If she did, when and for what amount? I ask the Minister kindly, if possible, for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the reception of 2 million Ukrainians in Poland is connected with various difficulties - someone will come to some family, someone will move to another place, someone will leave Poland, someone will come to Poland. I am saying this in the context of the difficulties that the government and local governments have to register these Ukrainians to spend money, because there will soon be a question about corruption, why it was passed on, for example. money from some family who didn't take the Ukrainians. I want to show you this difficulty so that we don't talk, apologize, nonsense, that things can be solved sooner and faster. You can't, because it's a huge migration movement. Listening to some of the comments, I wondered if the government could have adopted the laws before the war. Why is he waiting so long? Let us understand that during every cataclysm, when there is a flood, an emergency situation, you need to (the bell) act systemically and work out a system. It just surprised us. I would like to ask for some consideration in such statements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u156	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker. Minister, you have 15 minutes, but we'd like to vote at an hour. 12.45, because those people who came, of course, came first of all to listen to you, but they would probably want to vote, too. [[15 minutes, explain everything.]] Well, then... It's up to you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that, in my speech, as the Marshal pointed out, attendance in the courtroom has increased. I would very much like to thank all those who worked on this amendment, including the parliamentary clubs, for not having tabled amendments at second reading. This will allow the project to be adopted in a moment. They asked why this project is only now. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsible authority is submitting a project based on facts and not on assumptions, which is why this could not be presented and proposed in advance. I would like to give the High House, as well as the public important information. Over an hour ago, a joint committee of government and local government set up a government and local government team. war refugees from Ukraine. The team will start work tomorrow and the first objective will be to develop systemic solutions for the adaptation of Ukrainian refugees to education and work as soon as possible. These solutions must be prepared as soon as possible, because these 60 days are also for our guests from Ukraine to be able to adapt in Poland. You asked about the means. To this day all funds transferred to local governments are PLN 1120 million, of which 434 million have been transferred to housing and catering for refugees. These are funds transferred to Polish families, 434 million PLN. These requests are constantly flowing and implemented by the voivodships without undue delay. Of course, the government has submitted a request, a letter to the European Union for additional resources to address our aid issues to Ukrainians. There is a need for other countries of the European Union to prepare an offer of stay for Ukrainians, for war refugees from Ukraine, and this is what we have been appealing to other countries since the beginning in our international talks. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not answer questions that have been asked in a language that has a different alphabet than the one we use. A real patriot is helping refugees from Ukraine today. Thank you to all Poles who provide this assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u158	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u159	Since February 24, when Russian aggression began in Ukraine, nearly 3 million refugees from Ukraine arrived in Poland. Since the beginning of the war day, we have been helping Ukraine and its citizens as much as we can. One of the points of this law is to clarify the matter of temporary pursuit of the profession in the Polish territory of a doctor and dentist by persons from countries outside the European Union for the purpose of providing medical assistance, health care services, Ukrainian citizens who are staying in Poland. This issue suggests replacing the nostrils of diplomas. If there is already a functioning system enabling doctors from Ukraine to work in Poland, it should only be possible to proceed as quickly as possible and pass procedures. I therefore ask for an answer. Will the temporary pursuit of the doctor's profession take place after the procedure has passed for the nostrilization of the doctor's diploma from Ukraine? If not, do you not see the problem in other medical procedures concerning doctors from Poland and Ukraine and how to treat or perform treatments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u160	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] We will proceed to the vote on this subject in relation to the opposition in the voting block. [[Who objected?]] A moment's break and we're going to vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 44 hours 12 min 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u161	I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act of farmers, print No 2188. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. In the discussion, a request was made for a third reading without referring the draft law to the committee. I will put this proposal to the vote in the light of the opposition. We're going to the voice room. I ask Members to take their seats. Someone else is making cards, so it's just gonna be a little while longer. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a proposal for a third reading without referring the bill to the committee will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] I know. It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. In - 415, against - 9, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who doesn't it work with? [[Voice from the room: My room doesn't work.]] Who else doesn't work? Wait a minute. Check it out, will you? Please raise your hand. Who doesn't it work with? [[Because this is a closed vote, so how is it supposed to work?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's all working out now. I haven't closed the vote yet. [[Voice from the room: No, I'm not working.]] 427 Members voted. In - 11, against - 416, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2201, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen, we need to vote a little faster now. There's no more remote vote. You have to get used to the new mode. 440 Members voted. For - 429, against - 10, holding down 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory. That concludes the vote. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 13. Excuse me, one more announcement. I was asked to provide this information: if you are organizing school trips to the Sejm, it is a request to visit with the tours of the Veteran's Centre of Action outside the borders of the State. This is a request to your Members. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 52 hours 13]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u162	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Information by the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Climate and Environment concerning energy security of the Republic of Poland. I kindly ask the Minister of Climate and Environment, Ms Anna Moscow, to present the information. Come in, Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. In that case, Minister Jacek Sasin first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to the High House information about the current situation related to Gazprom's decision to suspend the supply of natural gas to Poland, to the Polish recipient, Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry. To begin with, a short chronology of the events that led us to this point. March 31st this year. was issued by the President of the Russian Federation a decree ordering foreign customers, gas customers from Russia, to pay for this gas in rubles. At the same time, I would like to inform the High House that the existing jamal contract determines the method of payment for fuel delivered from Russia - it is a dollar payment that has been made since the very beginning of this contract and has never been challenged by the Russian party in any way. Following this decree on 1 April Gazprom, referring just to a change of law in the Russian Federation, he submitted to the Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry with a request to change the terms of payment. Such a request has no basis in the existing contract and de facto means an attempt to change this contract beyond any applicable procedures in this case. I would like to say very clearly that under no circumstances did the Polish government, nor the Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry take into account changes in the form of payment, mainly for one reason: the decree of the President of the Russian Federation does not apply to us. We are Polish, not Russia, and we do not intend to implement the decrees of the President of the Russian Federation in Poland. Polish law applies to us and we have agreements that have been concluded on the basis of this law. [[Applause]] To the correspondence Gazprom Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe and Gazowieckie replied that he wanted to perform the contract according to the records that are in it and thus also make payments. On 26 April this year. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry received a letter from Gazprom announcing the complete cessation of deliveries under the Jamal contract at the beginning of the contract day on 27 April. This called for an emergency, a higher necessity. As we understand, this higher necessity was the decree of the President of the Russian Federation. This threat, which has been sent, has been fulfilled and today the gas to Poland has not flowed from morning to morning. This is what action chronology looks like. Now about the consequences of this situation. Well, High Izbo, we, as Poland, as Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry, have been preparing for such a situation for a long time. It is not surprising to us. We are aware that Russia has treated energy raw materials, including gas, not simply as a commercial product, but as a tool for blackmailing those who are forced to use Russian fuel. This view has been formulated many times by us. I'll remind you that it was like that at the time of the presidency. President Lech Kaczyński. It was President Lech Kaczyński who made an effort to make us independent of the supply of energy resources from Russia. It was then that the decision was made about the construction of Gazoport in Świnoujście, which was to be just such an element of a larger puzzle and which ultimately was to lead us to such a situation that Poland would be able to do without Russian gas. Even then we formulated such a view that energy blackmail from Russia can also be used to force certain political decisions or certain attitudes of Poland and the Polish government. Therefore, we have prepared ourselves, as I said, for this situation that has happened to us at the moment. Firstly, through infrastructure investments, which were implemented in previous years - about them in a moment - but also ensuring the filling of warehouses, which are at the disposal of Polish entities. I stress this because they are not only in Polish territory, but are at the disposal of Polish entities, unlike warehouses in other countries, such as Germany, where some of these warehouses are in Gazprom's hands. We're the ones with those magazines. They're now full of 76%. In recent weeks, especially when this threat of halting Russian gas supply due to the war in Ukraine has become even more real, the filling has gradually increased and today, as I say, it is 76%. This is yesterday's data. What does it look like, High Izbo, against other European countries? Well, it looks very good. As far as countries which are similarly dependent on Russian gas are concerned, Germany has these warehouses filled in 33%, Slovakia in 19%, Italy in 11%, Czech Republic in 34%, Austria in 17%, only Spain has this filling over half, 61%. I can only say that today, after winter, we have warehouses filled to a greater extent than most European countries, than all European countries actually had them filled before the winter period, when, as you know, gas consumption is the highest. At the same time, Polish Oil Mining and Gas Industry provided access to fuel from alternative sources to Poland, the Polish economy as well as the Polish society. These are contracts concluded with suppliers from the United States and from the Gulf. They are realized through a gasport in Świnoujście. Also today it is possible to supply this gas from other directions, both from the western direction through Germany as well as from the south through Slovakia and the Czech Republic, as well as within the next few days, because from the beginning of May, it is planned to complement the pipeline connection with the port in Klaipeda, where Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry bought the possibility to supply liquefied gas by sea in a volume of 2 billion m. I would therefore like to inform the High House that at the moment there is no danger of interruption or restriction of gas supply to domestic customers, both individual... [[What about November?]] ... using gas for heating or other necessary domestic activities as well as industrial customers. With regard to infrastructure, which is very important in this case, because we are dealing with fuel, which requires specialised infrastructure for its transport, for supplies, I would like to point out here that these actions have been undertaken over a very many years and today they are either completed or will be completed in the nearest period. Well, first of all, the gasport in Świnoujście - as I said, the decision to build it was made at the time of the rule of law and justice at the initiative of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, the construction was then continued by successive governments for the next eight years. Although with a long delay, but managed to put this investment into service at the end of 2015, already at a time when Law and Justice again exercised power. So, you could say, we've completed this investment that we've been doing for the past eight years, as I'm saying, with a lot of delays. [[You're talking about gas prices, not...]] As far as Baltic Pipe is concerned, this pipeline, which will completely free us from Russian gas supplies, will be launched at the end of the third quarter of this year. The decision to build it was made in 2016. I am very sorry that this happened so late because if the decision of the left-wing government, the Leszek Miller government, had not been withdrawn from the decision taken at that time so that such a pipeline link with Norway could operate, already today, for a long time, we would have had the possibility of completely abandoning the Russian gas and these perturbations related to the war beyond our eastern borders and with decisions, the unlawful decisions that the Russian Government is making, the President of the Russian Federation, and, consequently, Gazprom, so that we would not simply be concerned, we would not be conducting this discussion today at all. Unfortunately, this decision taken by the Leszek Miller government has caused us to wait a few more months for this pipeline to start with Norway. This pipeline, with limited capacity, will be launched again this year and will reach full capacity next year. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry has made numerous efforts and decisions to obtain raw materials to fill this pipeline mainly by purchasing their own deposits on the Norwegian shelf. To this end, the money that was recovered from Gazprom was used, overpaid for non-market prices imposed by the supplier to Poland as a result of the previous government, the government of PO-PSL, a contract with Gazprom. This money was recovered as a result of arbitration. This money was used to buy Norwegian deposits. Contracts were also concluded, which already in the fourth quarter of this year will cause that gas not from Polish deposits, but from other suppliers, will flow to Poland. It's with the domestic extraction. will allow us to become completely independent of Russian gas. High Izbo! A lot was raining and in public space, and in this room today, when we started deliberations, statements and accusations about how Poland could find itself in such a situation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is in a situation where, as I said, we are prepared, also because certain decisions were not taken when they should have been taken. I have already said about Baltic Pipe, which has been able to function for many years, I have talked about delays in the construction of the gasport in Świnoujście, and above all those decisions which our predecessors from the PO-PSL government have made in the framework of contracts concluded with Russia, could have resulted in - indeed far-reaching consequences. Let me remind you that the contract concluded by the government of Donald Tusk, namely Deputy Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak, was for the supply of Russian gas from Gazprom until 2037, and in the formula which provided for payment for this gas in the contracted size even if Poland did not receive this gas. Even if we had the opportunity to provide supplies from other directions, we were obliged to pay for this gas by 2037. I must say that, at least in this case, Prime Minister Pawlak is an extremely consistent person in his actions... [[Cheap politics.]] ...because not long ago, in January of this year, he claimed publicly that the Baltic Pipe pipeline is not needed for anything, because we have a Jamaican pipeline that can be used and meet our needs. I will quote the point of this statement: Baltic Pipe will be a very expensive monument to the Polish government and nothing more. You can only enjoy the fact that people who profess such a philosophy and who have conducted such a policy as those who held power in the years 2007-2015 today do not rule Poland. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that in the strategy and actions that the government took, there was not only total dependence on Russian gas supplies in a very long time horizon (The Bell), for another dozen years, counting from today, but also there was privatisation of PGNiG, i.e. deprive Poland of the possibility of having a tool to ensure the energy security of Poland and Poles. We act in accordance with another philosophy, the philosophy of taking responsibility by the Polish state for energy security of Poland... [[We sell everything.]] ...energy security of Polish families, and that is why we have prepared ourselves, High Izbo, for this situation, which is a new situation from today, the situation of interruptions in Russian gas supply, and therefore Poles can feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite the Minister of Climate and Environment, Ms Anna Moscow, and ask for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will complete the information provided by the Prime Minister from the perspective of the climate and environment department. The recent weeks have been a time of intense diplomatic offensive by the Prime Minister and the entire government, an offensive towards encouraging full, consistent sanctions and a complete cut-off from Russian raw materials. We are ready for these sanctions and call on the European countries to demonstrate their willingness to show courage and conscience and to take this decision in solidarity. In the many international meetings that have taken place in recent weeks, the statement most frequently made by international institutions, European countries, was that you were right - although this is a bitter success - you warned Gazprom about it and pursued a consistent policy of diversification and consistent investment policy. It appears in every conversation with the Minister for Energy, it appeared in the speech - also yesterday at the committee meeting - the Commissioner of the European Union for Energy, Ms Kadri Simson. This was also said yesterday at a press conference in our German Ministry Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck, stating that he was ashamed of the way German energy policy was conducted. This is the most frequently repeated sentence which shows that our policy - not only our attitude today, but also the consistency shown since the beginning of the rule of law and justice - was a good, consistent, although absolutely misunderstood by the world and Europe. Today, we're the leader. not only in humanitarian aid but also in practically every field of support for Ukraine. We are also a leader in the field of derusification, a leader who not only speaks, but also shows how this derusification has been carried out and carried out. The words of the Deputy Prime Minister in the government of PO-PSL were already quoted today, who ironed until recently and asked if Russian gas in Polish cookers was burning badly. Today we are no longer on fire, and at the same time we are safe, because the gas will not run out. December 31st Ub. One of the Members - Madam - does not have - tweeted a lot of these comments, such a tweet: How is it possible that the PiS government does not have a long-term agreement with Russia on gas supply? I'm gonna freeze my mom's ears off? Poland does not need Russian gas. Unlike other countries, we do not have a contract with Gazprom until 2040. There are countries that have such contracts. We have safely filled Polish warehouses, ready infrastructure and diversified contracts, therefore we do not have to and will not be subjected to Putin's blackmail. The Prime Minister mentioned the LNG terminal. I'll remind you that this terminal will have six gas carriers on record in May. It's going to be 50 this year. For comparison: 2015 - one delivery, 2016 - 9 deliveries, 2017 - 14, 2018 - 23, 2019 - 31, 2020 - 35, previous year - 35, this year - 35. In the following year the capacity of this terminal will be increased to 8 billion m Today, the NIK report was published. • Preparing and implementing infrastructure investments for natural gas. This is a cyclical report that checks the work of our ministry, on the Gas-System side, on the side of the d.o.b. infrastructure. What's in this report? Activities related to the construction of the new natural gas collection and transmission infrastructure were carried out in such a way as to ensure the availability of natural gas after 2022 in Poland. The Minister for Climate and Environment has properly carried out tasks aimed at supervising the security of supply of gas fuels to the country and supervising the functioning of national energy systems. The activities of Gaz-System concerning the construction or expansion of the key cross-border natural gas transmission infrastructure were carried out in such a way as to ensure the supply of gas to Poland after 2022 at the required level. At the same time, the representative of the government for the the strategic energy infrastructure has properly supervised the preparation and execution of investments in the expansion of the LNG terminal and has supported Gaz-System in the implementation of priority investments for gas collection and transmission. At the same time, in the coming days we will present an amendment to this law, which was discussed here in January, i.e. an amendment protecting consumers, securing their tariffs. In January we presented a long list of these recipients: individuals, cooperatives, communities, public benefit organisations, hospitals, schools. It's all in place this year. This tariff protection will be extended until 2027 by an amendment that will be introduced in the coming days. At the same time, we are consistently working to diversify not only gas supply but also oil supply. Today our infrastructure is prepared for processing not only Russian oil, but also oil from all over the world. Let me remind you that our German partners still have a refinery in Schwedt, which is controlled by Russian Rosnieft and where only Russian oil can be processed. We also have our own coal extraction and foreign supplies secured. At the same time, we are consistently developing other energy sources to ensure energy security. Poland achieved the EU RES target of 15% Moreover, in 2020 this target was exceeded and the share of energy from RES reached more than 16%. Today we have more than 17 GW of power installed in RES. But at the same time I think it is worth to overthrow this myth that we have Polish sun and Polish wind and that it is the Polish sun and this Polish wind that will provide us with energy security. Imagine the Siekierki plant, which will operate on the basis of Polish wind and Polish sun in January, in order to ensure safety for the inhabitants of Warsaw. Good luck with that. [[That's what the climate minister says.]] Without stable energy sources, we are not able to provide the public with responsible energy security, heat and hot water. Therefore, we are also consistently developing offshore wind energy projects. Poland is the leader in these projects. Currently, Polish projects are waiting for the decision to grant support under differential contracts. It's a decision. The European Commission. For the first time, the nuclear power plant project is carried out consistently and according to the timetable. In recent days, complete, comprehensive documentation has been submitted to allow environmental decision-making. At the same time, we focus on developing micro and small nuclear technologies, those nuclear technologies which are also stable sources and will be able to secure the operation of renewable energy sources also at a time when it does not blow and does not shine, because the myth is that we do not need stable energy sources. Poland is a secure energy state, sovereign, taking consistent action also in the infrastructure dimension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. [[It wasn't the Sejm who set it up. It was the marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Are there any questions? Can you sign up?]] No questions. Mr Marek Suski will speak. There are no questions. These are the Bureau's findings, there were no objections to this. [[Voice from the room: Why no questions?]] [[There were objections.]] [[What do you mean, no objections?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club with regard to the information of our government's ministers on the gas situation, about what happened in the last 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely do such important debates occur in the Polish Parliament. This is a debate. about our safety. [[This is not a debate because there are no questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, you will have time. This is a club performance. Please don't make it difficult for us to discuss and speak. [[Voice from the room: Read the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u169	Please don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen! For many years Poland has warned - maybe not all, but at least Law and Justice, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, once again the Centre Agreement, Jarosław Kaczyński - Europe that gas in Russia's hands is a weapon of mass destruction. Europe wouldn't listen. However, Europe, under German leadership, was on a string of Russian gas addiction to the slaughter. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, Putin's butchers and his criminal army, attacking Ukraine, are really fighting the whole democratic world, fighting freedom in Europe. This is a war fought, but not spoken, because it is supposed to be just an operation to liberate Ukraine from the aggression of some supposed fascists. This is war. against the free world and we, ladies and gentlemen, have expressed ourselves as our country on the side of freedom, on the side of Ukraine's sovereignty and Ukraine in this we support, as do all democratic countries that love freedom. But, ladies and gentlemen, today Putin used these weapons of mass destruction. He's turned off the gas tap. It was twisted by Poland, Lithuania, Romania. I also spoke to the Moldovan ambassador yesterday. Moldova has a signed contract until 1 May, Gazprom does not respond to e-mails and phone calls, and from 1 May Moldova will probably be cut off from gas as well. Putin uses weapons of mass destruction against the democratic world. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are the only country that has been preparing for years to become independent of Russian raw materials. We have already built the gasport mentioned here, to which the Platform is also so eager to admit. [[Because she built it.]] [[Because she built it.]] I remember when you guys were in charge, you stopped the deal and even wondered if you were gonna stop the construction. Because it doesn't make sense that you invited Russia to invest in Gdansk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, any problems again?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u171	You even signed an agreement with Russia on the basis of which you let them into the centre of European counterintelligence. This is how you worked to make Poland independent of Russia's energy resources, and you wanted to sell our assets and let Russia into our investment. So don't take such great credit, because thanks to the fact that we protested so that you wouldn't interrupt this investment, you continued it. Well, it's a good thing you guys continued, because today, if you hadn't stopped it for two years of course, we'd be ready to turn off the tap, and, yes, a few more months, we're gonna be struggling a little bit. But thanks to the fact that the government of Law and Justice quickly, when it took over power, started these investments - for example, Baltic Pipe and the expansion of Świnoujście, and the construction of the pipeline to Lithuania, so that we also from Klaipeda can receive raw materials - we are prepared for this. Putin won't be able to take down Poland, this weapon is ineffective. But, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we also had a meeting with the Commissioner for Energy. Even at this meeting yesterday, Members of the opposition, even before Putin turned on the tap, claimed, complaining about Poland that we do not want to cut off Russian gas immediately... The Commissioner said: yes, this must be done, but this must be done so as not to pay for the gas we will not receive. Because the deal is we'd just have to pay. Putin would get the money anyway, and Poland wouldn't have gas. But I think Putin heard your demands and realized them, cut Poland off from gas - as you proposed - immediately. Congratulations. [[But we're not gonna pay now.]] I congratulate you on your sensitivity and cooperation with Russia. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be calm tonight. I assure all Poles that the gas will not run out (the bell) thanks to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u173	I would like to thank Minister Moscow and Prime Minister Sasin for these actions that allow us to live safely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u174	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u175	As for the situation, about how the opposition behaves, I'm ashamed of what you're doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Suski started this debate. It is characteristic that we are talking about the most important things, and you are represented by Mr Suski. He says he's ashamed of the opposition, but we haven't said a word yet. We didn't have a single word to say. [[You've already said enough.]] A moment ago, Minister Moscow, Minister of Climate, who said from this point of view that energy transformation, green energy is not the answer to the challenges of the future. That's what the climate minister says. [[No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: Tell me the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Now I'm talking. That's what the climate minister says. Maybe that explains why you've only increased by 2% in six years. participation of so-called Green energy, and mostly it's actually burning biomass. Of course we won't make a transformation in 1 year. With you in 100 years we will not do this, but the answer to Putin's blackmail is also energy transformation, and as part of this transformation you have taken away people from photovoltaics, just as you destroyed all wind energy in Poland. Your energy transformation, Mr. Sasin, is that after six years of your government, people are worried about whether the eco peas will cost 3 or 4,000. They were worried about it in December, gas prices rose in December, and the war broke out at the end of February. What the hell does the price of gas have in common?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u178	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u179	...in December, which of 500 PLN grows to 1 000. zł, with Putin? You hide everything, including inflation, behind Putin, and this is your fault. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Are you high?]] [[And you're defending Putin?]] Because you can remember Lech Kaczyński, who built the gasport, and you didn't ask yourself how much this gas in the gas is costing. When we built the gasport... How hilarious it would be if I came out here and Poles paying 1,000 today. Zł for gas said: and Lech Kaczyński is, and Donald Tusk is, and Buzek started... What does it matter? The facts are: when Gazoport was committed in 2015, it was 5 billion m [[Prime Minister Sasin...]] It could make the gas cheaper. Baltic Pipe. 6.5 years go by. Baltic Pipe, you say. I've been looking at this project since Jerzy Buzek, because he really started this project. I'm from West Pomerania. I'd like to ask you, please... You didn't give me a number -- like you did with the election, you said you were gonna make an election, and then there was a bill of 70 million, but nothing else. It didn't work. I'm asking you. 10 billion m [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Listen to me now. You have to listen a few times in your life, this is the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u180	Sir, calm down. Don't threaten with your finger, just calm down, lower your temperature a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u181	Your marshal needs to listen, too. Finger's got it for you, not us. Now I'm talking, and you're gonna listen. Today... Don't laugh, don't listen. [[Take it easy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u182	He could kick somebody else.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u183	Today, President Trzaskowski is in Washington. Why? It's to attract Americans, to attract the UN...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u184	Into what? [[Into what? Into what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u185	...the entire international opinion to help refugees. Because your President Kaczyński says this: Poles will not ask for any help, we will be able to deal with refugees ourselves, we will all pay for it. Only I at Kaczyński's in Żoliborz didn't see any refugees at home, and Poles have them at home. [[Applause]] Who helped them? And why am I talking about Trzaskowski in Washington? [[Does Trzaskowski have refugees at home?]] Because if we have an American alliance, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Sasin, Mr. Kaczyński, how much cheaper you've gotten for American gas. How much? Today the only chance is not the interconnectors from Germany or the Czech Republic, because where do the Czechs or Slovaks get the gas if the Russians turn it off? [[From Russia...]] There's only American gas. Did any of you kneeling in front of the Americans even ask them for cheaper gas? Are you strategically able to help us in this difficult situation? No. All you can do is scream. [[Voice from the room: You're the one who's screaming.]] You can scream that the European Union is angry that the European Union is not helping you. And I will tell you at the end: and Baltic Pipe, which you attribute to yourselves, and the gasport that you attribute to you, were actually financed halfway through European money. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Right.]] And you would have a fig with poppy, if it weren't for European money, if it wasn't for the energy solidarity that Jerzy Buzek was fighting for, not Lech Kaczyński, not Jarosław Kaczyński. Jarosław Kaczyński destroys European solidarity, and Jerzy Buzek, Polish MEPs build European solidarity, thanks to which we have the infrastructure, the pipes that you praise, the gasport that you praise, Baltic Pipe. [[And Nord Stream times two.]] Finally. If there is a lack of energy solidarity somewhere, there is no energy solidarity because the sanctions are blocking MOL. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The interests of the Hungarian MOL block European sanctions. What's your answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u186	Mr. Nitras, finish up. Time's up. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u187	You sell them Polish stations... Disgraceful! [[But what kind of behavior is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u188	Thank you very much. Don't yell. Don't yell and get off the stand. Time's up. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[I'll go down when I'm out of time.]] [[Applause]] It's been a long time. [[Why are you screaming like that? Why are you screaming like that? Why is Mrs. Sasina...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Get off the stand, Mr. Nitras. Mr. Nitras, come down. [[Voice from the hall: You're a marshal.]] [[Mr Nitras.]] Come down. [[Mr. President.]] Come down. [[Voice from the gym: You're out of character.]] I speak your language, as you have spoken to our parliamentarians. [[Mr. President.]] Come down. [[Voice from the hall: But you're out of character, you're a marshal.]] Mrs Beata Maciejewska on behalf of the Left Club. Come, my fellow Member, cordially. [[You're not fit for this role.]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame, Marshal.]] For such a shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The temperature is high because the subject is very difficult. And I agree that these emotions must be triggered here, because as I hear Minister Sasin talking about Polish energy security, I really feel completely threatened, Minister. I feel like it's gonna end like an envelope election. I feel like this could end just like your negotiations on Turov. And I feel like when you're responsible, it could be very, very bad. That's the first thing. But you said another equally terrifying thing. You said that your government has been independent of Russian raw materials for many years. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it's true.]] And that's not true. [[Voice from the room: It is true.]] Let me remind you that in 2018, i.e. in the state of government, there was a peak of imports of coal from Russia to Poland - spades. It's your responsibility. It was you who built the Ostrołęka which you opened in 2018 and closed in 2020 and threw 4 billion PLN into it. And then, and before that, your minister, Mr. Tchórzewski, measured progress in energy with the amount of carts with coal that were to be burned in this Ostrołęka. And those were Russian coal carts. You've completely disbanded the Polish energy industry. You spread Ostroleka, you spread windmills on land. Minister Zalewska's words should always be in our head when Minister Zalewska, as rapporteur, said that she was afraid that some propeller from the windmill would hit her on the head as she walked in the field, so that PiS had eliminated windmills on land. Guys, it's just satire. You guys are good for satire. [[Yes, what you're saying is satire.]] What about the transmission networks? What about prosumers? You're just demoting it. Today you go out on the floor and say, "We are ready, we are here, and Poland is great." No, it's not great. [[Because Poland is great, Member.]] We'll see what happens when autumn comes, Minister. You're saying today that everything's okay, that we've filled our magazines, that it's Baltic Pipe, but Baltic Pipe isn't working yet. We'll see in the fall. What you're doing today... [[We'll see.]] Your Prime Minister is very good at making a PowerPoint presentation, and you're very good at predicting the future, and then you just take out your bullet and say that that bullet wasn't... [[And you lie.]] ...because you would misread, like Minister Sasin or other ministers who said that there would be no raises when it comes to, among other things. the price of energy. [[Voice from the hall: You can't predict at all, nothing.]] Yesterday, at the meeting of the Joint Committee on European Union Affairs and the Energy Commission, Commissioner Simson spoke about various very important needs and needs. As the Left, so do we. We point to a fundamental thing that you haven't said at all here. We point to the need for energy solidarity in the Union and the creation of common energy purchases. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[And that's how we turned out.]] No country can stand up to Russia alone today. It has to be done together today. And you're either going out on the stand in the Seym, or you're meeting with the commissioner, waving a saber, talking about your ex-President, talking about your merits and closing up for more. [[Voice from the hall: About Prime Minister Miller.]] And we need someone today who... That's the way it's supposed to be. Poland today should be an ambassador not only of Ukraine in the European Union, but also of energy transformation, but of common purchasing, of common thinking that we should be prepared for this heating season throughout Europe without fossil fuels from Russia. Have you thought about it? No. You just keep talking about what you've done so far, and you're completely locked up for what's going to happen in the future. And let me remind you, there's only a few months left. I wouldn't want Polish entrepreneurs, especially in the case of energy-intensive companies, to simply hide out, put their businesses away...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u190	Thank you. Member, please don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u191	...and so that people in Poland have nothing to smoke or pay rates that will be unbearable for them, because you have done so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Help Ukraine win the war, it'll be cheaper.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u192	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listen to some truth about who did the most when it comes to making Poland independent of Russian gas, Russian coal and Russian oil, who disversified the actions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Russian gas burns badly in the stoves.]] First of all, a gasport in Świnoujście - your decision, our execution. Reverse in Jamale - decision taken in 2010, since 2014 the possibility to purchase Norwegian gas, gas from Dutch ports. Interconnectors with the Czech Republic, with Germany, in Cieszyn, in Lasov. It's a good thing you're adding to Slovakia now. Gas warehouses in Poland in Wierzchowice. The principle of energy solidarity with the European Union. $1,000. One kilometer of new gas pipelines built under our rule. Agreements with Qatar and the United States, long-term, independent of us. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in our governments, the ability to import gas from a direction other than the east has increased tenfold, from 9% to 91%. [[Applause]] This is the truth about who did the most. You guys are the talking specialists, and we're the robots, that's the division. All you guys can do is talk, and we've done our job. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr...]] Now the truth about how the PiS government cared about energy security, how it freed us. Increase in imports of coal from Russia. The year 2015 - 5 million tons of Russian coal entered Poland. It was already a lot, but in 2018 - you rule, it is the fullness of your governments - 13 million tons of Russian coal entered Poland. [[Scandal!]] 2021 - 65% of imports of coal into Poland are imported from Russia. You made Poland dependent on Russian coal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Disgraceful!]] Decision to switch to the acquisition of gas on the stock exchange. Who made that decision? This is the worst decision you could make. Prime Minister Sasin! Explain yourself. In 2020 this decision was taken, with negative effects since 2021, because the price on the stock exchange has jumped and is much higher than the long-term agreement, notabene concluded by 2022, and not by 2037. And if you are such a fan of the NIK reports, please read these reports: envelope elections, situation in the Polish Television, the Justice Fund, that's all that happens with the budget. Please read these reports because they concern you, and explain yourself. [[Applause]] Since 2021, we have been paying monthly... In recent months we have been paying 1 billion more for gas from Russia, 1 billion dollars per month. This is... [[And who signed the contract?]] This contract was signed by you because it's a change in spot purchase. This is your 2020 decision. [[Applause]] Yeah, who signed it, that's a good question. Did you sign this, Prime Minister Sasin or Minister Kowalski? [[Where's Pawlak today? Invite Pawlak.]] Apologize to Pawlak, that's a very good conclusion from the piss room. Leaving RES - it's just a drama. Even out of the wind, out of the sun and out of the water, you made... [[Voice from the room: Enemy.]] ...an ideological enemy. [[Applause]] It's just stupid, you gotta grab your head. You blocked the windmill bill in 2016. You left the Prosumer Act, for which you voted first in 2015, and in 2016 you threw it in the trash. Now, in 2021, you decide not to make it de facto profitable to install photovoltaics. Unfortunately, this decision has entered into force since 1 April of this year. You've blocked wind energy, limited photovoltaics, solar energy. What about the wasted 40 billion from the auction, from the sale of emission rights? [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, that's it.]] Why didn't these measures go to the renovation of the electricity grids? Why didn't you spend that money the right way? What's it like to buy gas? There's got to be full data here, too. How much gas did we buy from Russia in 2015? 8.3 billion m [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and you say it's your decision. [[Applause]] This is paranoia. This is paranoia, what happened. What do you have to do? Three points. Bet on the RES. Regulation only at the level of the municipality. Release wind energy, solar energy, water energy. No laws governing everything are to be decided by the local community. Biogas plants, photovoltaics, windmills - energy independence. The end of the dispute with the European Union, because Mr Nitras said well: EUR 267 million on Baltic Pipe, which should be completed as soon as possible, went from the European Union... [[Voice from the Chamber: From the Union.]] ...the Union you don't want money from when it comes to the national reconstruction programme. [[And Mrs. Gosievska doesn't like it.]] The end of the dispute with the European Union (the bell) and preparation for the purchase of electricity from Ukraine - these are our proposals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u194	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ears hurt from both sides of the demagogue. Energy policy in all faults, in all delays, in all imperfections is one of the few elements of the policy of the Polish state, for which different governments tried to achieve similar goals. Of course, everyone can be blamed here, but today we can say, for example. Germany that Poland was pursuing a policy in the right direction. We can talk about which government has been more successful in diversification, but maybe for once let's try to appreciate something that our country and society together achieves with their efforts instead of in this conflicting situation that Vladimir Putin makes his decision to jump into each other's eyes. I don't think that's what the citizens want us to do right now. They expect responsibility, they expect visions, they expect calming moods, that the whole political class, those who are in government, those who are in opposition, will show that they are able to communicate and ensure the implementation of gas supplies in Poland, that they can control production costs, costs and for individual customers, and for industry, and that they show some seriousness in the parliamentary debate, so that it is not so that one of the Members is shouting out with you marshals. Let's just show some level in this parliament. As regards the issue of gas, in the previous term of the Sejm, one of our Members - Robert Winnicki, elected from Kukiz's letter15, then the Confederation had not yet been in the Sejm, asked at the meeting of the committee for. energy, what is the plan, if there are delays in implementation of Baltic Pipe. At this point, we can see that we've already cut off the gas from Russia. We have supplies for a while, and the government assumes that the gas will come from an unfinished pipeline. I wish the government with all my heart that this will work. Then Minister Naimski, who answered the questions of our Member, Robert Winnicki, answered that there was a plan B, but he would not reveal it. I think it's time, maybe behind closed doors, to start talking about this plan B, because the pipeline is infinite and there's a war going on. We also have to deal with some situations of sabotage, diversion, so that this investment doesn't start. We need a plan B. The opposition should be informed of plan B. A few years ago, you thought you had a situation, that you felt peaceful, that you would do anything, that you didn't want to talk to the opposition. Now is the time when the responsible Members of the opposition tell you: if you have a plan B, invite us to some consultation with the Ministry, we will talk about it, so that there is no crying and gnashing teeth in the autumn, that the stocks will run out, Baltic Pipe will not move, because some country will discover some frog or mouse and it will be necessary to stop it for six months to negotiate, and we will watch another spectacle of jumping into each other's eyes and blaming each other. We expect a responsible attitude and the Confederation represents such an attitude. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, you let Putin take the first step. In fact, you let him show his strength. You've been saying for so long that you'd like to do something, that you should do something, that you've been planning to change for so long, that the Russians have imposed sanctions on themselves today. It's a sin of omission. You shouldn't let Putin pretend to deal any cards. But today we know that this is an expression of hostility not the last, that it is revenge for Poland's involvement in helping Ukraine. Today you have to think about what will happen next. Today you have to think about oil, not just how to provide the Poles with gas for autumn. Today, Poles expect politicians to make sure that adults do what they want today. First of all, energy security. Secondly, economic security. And third, military security. Unfortunately, I do not feel that you have the answers to the situation in these areas. What do we need today? First of all, we need money for biogas plants, heat pumps, expansion of energy networks. We have them at our fingertips, but why don't you want them? PLN 253 billion from the National Reconstruction Plan is the money for economic security... [[You're asking the Union not to give them up.]] ...strengthening our economy's resilience and military security. Finally, benefit from the help of the opposition: there are our amendments, we can today eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber and reach for money from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Similarly ETS, 200 billion PLN over the next decade. Finally, it's time to start investing in what we should be investing in. Minister, change of law. You and the Prime Minister at the press conference announced the unblocking of renewable energy sources, including wind energy on land. Where's the law change? They should already be converted by the House and serve the development of Polish energy. What else do we need? A good and wise diplomacy, a strong European solidarity, so that Europe can make its infrastructure available to us so that we can have reverses in Jamal. But again, you can't end the conflict in the West with an enemy in the East. It's time to stop, Prime Minister. And it's time to stop writing history books about energy transformation. We really need to move on. Today, as I said, politicians need to show that they can be responsible. This is what Poles and Poles expect us to do. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Start with each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u198	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żuk, on behalf of the Kukiz Circle15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the light of the events that are taking place behind our eastern border and the decision taken by the Russian Federation at the moment to close gas supply by the Jamaican pipeline, it is clear that the Polish Government should verify the state's energy policy by 2040 as soon as possible. In this policy, there is a clear indication of gas as a transitional fuel. Today we already know that it was certainly wrong. The only safe transitional solution for Poland is the continued exploitation of mines and the production of coal energy. Of course, it is in time that we need to be calmly defined. Why? Because new technologies... The Japanese are not a naive or technically weak nation, and they have been betting on coal energy, among others. IGFC technology, they built 200 MW blocks, now 500 MW. I really believe that technical progress empowers us, Poles, to produce energy from coal, for example the fact that BAT conclusions, BREFs are the best technologies and allow... It's the manufacturers' costs, of course. In the case of dust it is 8 mg/m I would like to address the government here because, of course, I regret that Ostrołęk Power Plant has been abandoned. If its construction continued, the European Union's agreement to build it would have met all the parameters of air quality, it would certainly have been the best guarantee of energy production in the country. Unfortunately, we went the wrong way. About RES, because I'm running out of time, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not against RES. Just consider the composite materials, i.e. fiberglass and resin, from which shovels are built. Today in Poland and the world there is no technology for recycling or recycling. These are chemically unbreakable materials. What's that? We see more and more low ground, and bulldozers push shovels from turbines. This is a very serious challenge. 7,000. MW is installed in wind power plants, which today produce 400. So it's an extremely unstable source. A few days... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are clearly in favour of the country's energy stability and the use of our own raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Politics makes even gas tone and is the subject of unnecessary dispute. I would like in this brief speech as someone who has been on the economic committee for many years, but also a historian by education and by profession, to say a few sentences ordering what situation we are in today. We're in a situation, for this difficult moment, quite comfortable. Why? Because it's summertime, there's a lot of gas supply, as the Prime Minister said, and since autumn, thanks to smart decisions made in many previous years, we'll be safe energy. Of course, the price is something that we're all very interested in, but we all remember two months ago when we were driving a car and we didn't look at the price anymore, but we were glad that we could fill up our car, because there was a war and there was a problem about this area as well. Many years ago, thanks to wise decisions made by Jerzy Buzek's government, today's Civic Platform policy, was the first attempt to become part of the Norwegian gas system. Unfortunately, the terrible decisions of the left-wing governments caused that something that could have been part of the Polish gas infrastructure had already been lost. Fortunately, the concept of diversification in the first rule of law and justice has been launched. These are good decisions regarding the construction of the gasport. And I ignore whether there were delays or not. It's the easiest way to shift responsibility. Fortunately, good decisions in the days of the Civic Platform's rule have caused this gasport to be present today. And it's a shared merit, and sometimes it's worth saying it. Unfortunately, some decisions have been stopped, and this is the neglect of the initial period of the Civic Platform's rule on getting involved in the Norwegian gas connection system. The Baltic Pipe project, which we are talking about today, could indeed have been with us a long time ago if these decisions had been made earlier. It's been abandoned. [[Who?]] The Civic Platform has been abandoned. Fortunately, what happened in 2014, i.e. Crimea, has taught us all, has forced us to reflect. These decisions were taken, which this government, the Government of Law and Justice, continued. Good. This makes us really safe since the fall. And I'm gonna say something. I will mention one name that almost no one has mentioned today, and it is necessary to mention it, because it is necessary to give justice to the politician who caused it, while still at Jerzy Buzek as his advisor, then minister in many governments, that we are in this situation today. He's not in this room today, but justice must be given to him. And I say it without political interest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is Minister Piotr Naimski. And I hope that someday this time will come, and it should be, although it doesn't have that kind of habit...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u202	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u203	Last sentence, Marshal. You're welcome. ...that Minister Piotr Naimski will be honored by the President of the Republic by the Order of the White Eagle, because for this matter he simply deserves this award. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mrs Anna Moscow, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me refer mainly to the RES section. We spoke before this meeting with the Prime Minister, in which direction this discussion will go, because it is difficult to undermine what we have proven today that we have been preparing for energy security for years. [[Voice from the room: I think we were all getting ready.]] We felt that this debate would certainly move towards a fake RES news, towards a misrepresentation of what was said today, manipulating the data that had been transmitted. [[But these are facts.]] Therefore, I will allow myself to correct this and do such a small lecture on RES, because I think perhaps it would be worth spending the entire RES debate in this room. Poland is the only one with sectoral agreements for all renewable energy sources. In the context of social dialogue with partners, actors and scientific actors, all projects are prepared, including regulation on renewable energy sources. Today, the UK has such a sector agreement only offshore, in the area of offshore windmills, and we have in every area. That's how we work. The remaining energy storage facilities. We're working on this sector deal. As regards RES, let me remind you once again that in 2020 the European Union imposed a 15% RES target on us. . We've reached over 16%. Today it is over 17 GW. We have a million prosumers - we had this goal in 2030 and we already have a million prosumers today. What's changed? The billing rules have changed and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has introduced additional support for energy storage. The aim of RES development for us is not only to develop every power, but also to develop independence also at the level of individual households. This amendment and this change in the way of funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management lead to this - so that it is RES, this photovoltaics is not treated as a product for trading and for sending to and from the network, but to increase self-awareness and a willingness to store, but at the same time to use smart networks to manage these systems. And these smart energy management systems at household level are also subsidised. The programme My currents are developing safely, similarly to other programmes of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and the number of queries and phone calls concerning co-financing has not changed after changing the rules. For 2020 to this end, the EU 7 giga in land windmills. A few facts about the land windmills. 7 giga is not enough. We have decided to make this law more flexible. But in what direction? Each of us has the right to decide whether we want this windmill outside the window, which is why we have strengthened this component of public consultation. [[Voice from the room: Where is he?]] These are specific local communities, specific residents according to this new project, which you know well... [[Voice from the hall: He's been in the ministry for a year, not here.]] ...they'll be able to decide if it's 700 m or more. This will depend on the environmental, economic, but also on the opinion of local residents. Social participation and democracy... [[The platform filed a year ago...]] [[That's not true.]] ...that's the kind of project he's gonna go in that direction. [[Applause]] Another source of RES... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u206	What's with the screams? Minister of Climate and Environment Anna Moscow: ...sea wind energy. It didn't happen here, and I think it's because we're the leader of offshore wind power. Polish farms are growing... [[Voice from the hall: How many windmills are there?]] ...consistently, and I will remind you, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are at the stage of maritime design. Our projects are already operational... [[Voice from the room: on paper, I think.]] ...are notified to the European Commission to receive support. 2026 it's gonna be... [[We're gonna do it all.]] ...first production from the Polish wind farm, Orlen farm, a project that develops according to schedule. This will allow us to provide almost 6 giga from this source in 2030, in 2040 almost 12. At the same time, looking at how successful offshore wind energy is, how well these projects are developing, we decided to revise the plans for maritime development, of course taking into account the environmental aspect, which is extremely important in every such process. After this revision, we will decide whether we release further powers and transfer further offshore wind energy locations to investors. Today Poland is a leader, a country that participates in dialogue and project preparation in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. It is these countries that ask us how these projects are to be conducted and how to regulate. I would like to remind you that the German state has for some time stopped projects in offshore wind energy, while these projects have been developed consistently with us. Hydroenergy - thank you for remembering this thread. I worked at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which was responsible for preparing a programme for the development of inland waterways, and let me remind you - there is no hydroenergy without water grades. When we started work, there were two people working in this area, and the drawer was empty, there was a ban on working on these projects. We have developed a comprehensive programme for the development of inland waterways, a programme for the construction of water grades, because without these degrees there is no hydroenergy - consistent action towards the construction of Sierzewo, we have finished Malczyce, Świnna Poręba. We then met with the European Commission, which removed the entire water management component, including hydroenergy, from the KPO, which removed hydroenergy-related programmes from the funding projects. Hydroenergy for today in the European Union is the same, equally prohibited with new investments as talking about coal. There's a phrase in the documents: every intrusion into the river violates the ecosystem. During the meeting with Environment Minister Mrs Steffi Lemke, German Environment Minister, I heard that Odra is a beautiful wild river and it should remain that way. No hydroenergy, no inland waterways - it's not a waterway, it's a wild river. With this approach it is difficult to develop hydroenergy. However, we have prepared a programme for the development of small hydropower plants, and we will implement it consistently, with the assumption that the European Commission will not overturn these plans for us. There was much here today to advise on how to build energy security of Poland. I think it would be worthwhile not asking your colleagues from the EPP when practicing this advice, because these are the colleagues who recommended, conducted and supported projects. Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2. [[Applause]] You have talked a lot about European solidarity and the need for Europe to remain independent of Russian raw materials. We fully support this and we even have an idea of how to do it right. The ETS is also mentioned here, the system in which financial institutions operate, we pay a lot, we cannot control the price, there are no systems of maximum price in the ETS, but this system is functioning. It was imposed on us. Nobody asked if we had 70%. Coal, whether we have opportunities for other energy sources - it has been imposed on us. We propose that we introduce such a system for de-russification, such a Russian ETS, and we will make this proposal to the European Commission. I understand that there are countries that have 100% Russian gas. We have 70%. Carbon. I understand we're running from different levels, but let's be solidarity. Let's move. Let's make the European Commission such a guardian of derusification - let the European Commission set targets, plans, percentages, powers, issues these powers, collects funds, transfers to derussification. That's a very good idea we support. It will test whether these principles of solidarity and the principle of equal principles in the European Union work, whether they work only for decarbonisation (Applause) or for energy security. That's what we're going to make. More? Speaking of NIK. This report, which I mentioned, is a cyclical report - a report on the preparation and implementation of infrastructure investments for natural gas. In the time of PO-PSL this report was a classified report. Question: "Why?" We are ready and even encourage you to read the details of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information of the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Climate and Environment concerning the energy security of the Republic of Poland for information. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and certain other laws (prints No 2152 and 2191). I kindly ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u207	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the government draft law amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and some other laws, print No 2152. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 6 April 2022 for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development carried out its first reading of the draft law at its meeting on 26 April 2022. The main objective of the Act is to define the tasks and competences with regard to the obligations arising from Regulation 2017/625 in the areas of animal health protection, the safety of products of animal origin, food of animal origin, foodstuffs and plant products as well as preparations. The aim of the Act is to improve the performance of tasks by veterinary inspection bodies, as well as to eliminate interpretation doubts arising from the application of amended laws by repealing two laws in 2003. On day 26 bm. a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was held. 11 amendments were tabled at first reading. The Commission has worked through this and has given a positive opinion and voted unanimously on the whole draft law. On behalf of the committee, I would like the High Sejm to announce the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski will speak on behalf of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government draft law amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and some other laws, print No 2152. The Veterinary Inspection Act is one of the most important veterinary laws governing tasks, organisation, mode of action and rules on the financing of inspections, rules on the cooperation of inspection bodies with the central authorities of the Member States of the European Union responsible for the application of veterinary legislation or food safety rules, rules on the issue of health certificates. The need for a proposed law arises from the need to ensure the application of the provisions of Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products. This Regulation must be applied directly in all Member States of the European Union. Failure to take legislative action to facilitate the application of these provisions could lead to the implementation by the European Commission of procedures for failing to comply with Polish law in the European Union and this could lead to the application of sanctions by the Union. The main objective of the proposed law is to define the tasks and competences with regard to the fulfilment of obligations under Regulation 2017/625 in the area of animal health, the safety of products of animal origin, food containing foodstuffs of non-animal origin and products of animal origin contained in agricultural retail trade and foodstuffs containing both products of plant origin and processed products of animal origin - so-called. composite products. In addition, the proposed law also amends the rules on the production of meat for personal use, clarifies the rules on the production of products of animal origin intended for third countries' markets, amends the rules on monetary penalties, creates conditions to facilitate the collection by the Veterinary Inspection of data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products. With many positive effects of the bill, I would mention, for example, the following. By making use of optional derogations in the field of the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies - the emergence of new or extended activities of existing cutting plants where meat is separated from head in bovine animals or the removal of spinal cord in the case of ovine and caprine animals. Allowing slaughter on the territory of the Republic of Poland in the context of the production of meat for own use of bovine animals up to the age of 12 months - this is the implementation of demands made by farmers. Regulation of the rules on food production on the market of third countries, including improving work and strengthening the surveillance of the Veterinary Inspection. The creation of an electronic module to document the treatment of animals, i.e. an electronic animal treatment book - on the one hand, it will enable the collection and easy access of data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products to be met and on the other hand removes the obligation to collect paper treatment records for animals which are a burden for animal owners. It will allow verification of how antimicrobial medicinal products are used for individual doctors, groups of animals, territorial areas, etc. The electronic data collection system will make it possible to easily verify the use of antimicrobial medicinal products and to detect and eliminate irregularities, thereby reducing the use of antibiotics in animal breeding and thereby improving the safety of food of animal origin and reducing the risk of microbial resistance, which is also a significant risk to human health. The proposed project introduces a number of solutions that are beneficial for the functioning of veterinary inspections, which is why the Law and Justice Club supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition against the 2152 Print Act. The law is mostly technical-cleaning. Many of the provisions of this project should be in business for a long time. Once again, the European Commission takes care of the safety of Polish food and forces you to change. Unfortunately, in the last 7 years, the Government of Law and Justice has only been active in taking over stools, not in building a strong control institution, which should be a veterinary inspection (Applause), whose effectiveness affects the health of millions of Poles and Europeans. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, if you forget that this veterinary inspection is on the front line in the fight against the epidemic of African swine fever and bird flu. I'll remind you what you did after you came to power. In express mode, you exchanged 13 of the 16 provincial veterinary inspectors. For the past 7 years, PiS has been deaf when we said that it is necessary to increase the surveillance on animal slaughter - the famous lounge scandal of January 2019, the illegal slaughter of sick cows - the use of antibiotics in animal breeding and then monitoring the presence of substances not authorised in food products of animal origin. In order not to be accused of bias, I will say that it is enough to read the latest report by NIK: Food safety control system in Poland. I quote: Veterinary inspection is struggling with a drop in employment on an unprecedented scale, because the average wage there ranges from 2.5 to 3 000. gross zloty. The total number of veterinarians employed in 2017-2018 decreased by 6,5% That's 141 people. Staff shortages in food safety teams prevented 191 out of 306 teams from working, accounting for 62%. Only 30% of the calls, ladies and gentlemen, end with the signing of contracts. For 56% No applications have been submitted at all, there are no volunteers. Now, after seven years, you promise to increase your employment by 1,500 jobs. It's another PR act. You know who's gonna cover those better paid jobs? Current employees of county inspectors in internal recruitment. On December 31st, I'll tell you: I'm checking. We'll see what comes out of those promises. If we combine the lack of employment with the lack of adequate inspection equipment, the disaster is ready. This is what's happening slowly. The inspection is not self-inflicted and has limited capacity to act effectively in the fight against, for example, ASF. It is about controls related to bioinsurance, etc. More, veterinary inspection has a problem with carrying out at least a growing number of food tests. From the consumer's point of view This is a very dangerous situation. Unfortunately, this also applies to the food that Poland exports. Proof: more and more notifications in the RASFF system, the Early Warning System for Dangerous Food. In 2017, there were 87 notifications, up to 273 in 2020. That was the highest score in Europe. Reform of the whole food control system - from producer to consumer - is necessary in Poland, as shown by five NIK controls and four EU audits. What does the government do? Sticks a slice on the wound and fakes the action. He promises to finance inspections, employment, increase of staff, 24/7 monitoring of animal landing in purchases. We've been hearing these promises for seven years. There is a saying among farmers: a cow that roars loudly, little milk gives. [[Applause]] Stop outrunning each other in your promises, just start acting. The revised draft, of course, must be adopted quickly, because if you do not adopt a whole series of regulations by 1 June, neither the district veterinarian nor the official veterinarian will be able to pursue his profession. If this were to happen, production plants would be set up in Poland. Food, ladies and gentlemen, these aren't Mayan passenger planes. It would be hard to survive without her in the long run. One last thing. You have been building a register of antibiotic consumption in livestock farming since 2017. That's the answer to the interpellation. Now you are committed to delivering your first reporting to Brussels in 2024. It is the use of antibiotics in 2023. That means December 31st this year. The system has to work. So on December 31st, New Year's Eve, I'll say check. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And don't complain that Brussels owes everything because she's making us change the rules. If Poles are to eat healthy food...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u212	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u213	Then get to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u214	Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's Act sets out the tasks and competences of the institutions in relation to EU legislation, which the Member rightly pointed out. In fact, we have been waiting three years since the introduction at European Union level... They concern the safety of products of animal origin as well as food in agricultural retail trade. What my previous speaker from Law and Justice pointed out, what is important and what is written in this law, is that it was possible to slaughter in Poland in a bovine holding up to 12 months of age as part of meat production for its own use. But what is particularly important for us consumers is that an electronic animal treatment book will be created to ensure that full information is available on the use of medicinal products in food-producing animals. What is most important and what deserves to be supported is the fact that the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber has tabled amendments or reasoned proposals concerning, among others. regulation of the designation of veterinarians who are not inspection staff to carry out inspection activities. In some way we see the cost dimension in this bill, and we also talked about the reimbursement of travel costs. Therefore, the bill we are discussing will be supported by the Left Club. It should be made clear that it does not solve many other important problems that the food safety system is facing, and so, as I would like to stress with force, also our health safety system. It is also an overlap between the powers of many inspections, the lack of cooperation and the provision of information or even competition and competition between the parties. These inspections work together... They want to show you which one's the most important. Suffice it to say that this Veterinary Inspection falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, even though he is responsible for food security, which is actually for our health, and a health centre which basically controls similar issues only in the further part of the food chain, already the Minister of Health. So we have two institutions whose scope of control is complementary and which are subject to two different ministries and therefore have different priorities. In addition, in my view, the scope of the work of the Veterinary Inspection and the Ministry of Agriculture is slightly excluded, so as not to say that they remain in conflict of interest. In addition, in terms of staff and finance collapse, over the last 17 years of government, unfortunately, it is necessary to emphasize that the right hand in Poland and 7 years of rule of law and justice have not been solved, it has even deepened. The number of subjects per veterinarian often exceeds 200 and increases with successive departures from inspections or not signing contracts to so-called. designation. This is due, among other things. from completely unclear and damaging billing of services performed by inspection staff and appointed doctors in relation to the applicable price list for the services provided. I also ignore the fact, which is a total scandal, that often appointed veterinarians are waiting for payment 2 or 3 months, among others. Because the voivodship or district inspection didn't have the right funds. And the voivode writes to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of Agriculture, and the doctor who did the job is waiting for his paycheck. With regard to the new jobs mentioned, where higher pay was proposed, this means that experienced workers, with longer traineeships, are actually discriminated financially against the newly accepted. So you've been working for a few years, so work on the old rules, because the raise is for a new employee. What my previous speaker mentioned also deserves attention. The question is, when are you going to make the correct adjustment, because really this amount of work and salary doesn't increase staff. When it comes to obtaining specializations, it should be stressed that the previous management of the Ministry with Minister Giżyński, headed in an unparalleled manner, destroyed the system of examinations proposed and adapted by the Medical and Veterinary Chamber to international standards and requirements. It turns out that today the veterinarian applying for specialization can be examined by a person who does not have any veterinary competence, has no specialization, but is (the bell) appointed by the competent minister. What do you have to do? Marshal, I'm about to end up in three words. What do you have to do? We need to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of controls. It is also the education of the public on healthy nutrition at this lowest level, at the youngest, as well as transparency, harmonisation of the structures of official food control and a clear, transparent and adequate pay system for workers and veterinarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u216	Thank you, sir. Our discussion is attended today by young people from primary school from Rekow Górny and from Strzelna, Pomorskie Voivodeship. Welcome, young people and carers. [[Applause]] The next speaker will be Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the draft law amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. The purpose of this Act is to align national provisions with the requirements of Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 15 March 2017. It lays down requirements for the protection of animal health, the safety of products of animal origin, food safety and foodstuffs containing both products of plant origin and processed products of animal origin. The draft provides for the amendment of the laws on Veterinary Inspection, on animal health protection, on the system of identification and registration of animals, on products of animal origin, on feedingstuffs, on food safety and on the levy. Union rules require Member States to collect data on antimicrobial medicinal products for use in animals in order to allow a direct or indirect assessment of the use of such products in food-producing animals at farm level. It is precisely for this purpose that the Act provides for the creation of a system for collecting data on the application of these measures. They should be automated in order to continuously monitor and collect data on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals. Specially created computer software will create annual documentation, which from 30 September 2024. Poland will provide the European Medicines Agency. Therefore, one of the modules of this system is to be an electronic animal treatment book. It shall be carried out by any food-producing animal holder, except in certain cases that veterinary surgeons providing veterinary services to those animal-holders shall carry out an alert. An electronic animal treatment book will ensure that full information on the use of medicinal products in these animals is available for official control. The implementation of this module will facilitate control over the amount and types of medicinal products used and the treatment method. An electronic animal treatment book will collect data such as the date and time of the operation, diagnosis or preliminary diagnosis of the disease, the number and series of the medicinal product used, therapeutic and prophylactic treatments used, medical recommendations and all other results of the specialist studies. In turn, the amendment of the Law of 16 December 2005 on products of animal origin will allow for slaughter on the holding in the context of the production of meat for own use of bovine animals up to 12 months of age and not, as has been the case so far, 6 months. However, not all changes proposed by the agricultural government were accepted positively by the projector. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers therefore called for this period to be extended to 24 months. Unfortunately, the government did not take into account these amendments proposed by the agricultural community. Raising the age of cattle, which makes it possible to slaughter on their own farm, would further develop the production of organic products of animal origin, the quality of which is praised all over the world. The Act introduces a number of charges. Allow me to mention a number of them: a fee for supervising the portioning, packing and repacking of meat, a fee for supervising the packing and repacking of eggs and egg products, a fee for supervising the transport of animals and a fee for supervising the transport of feedingstuffs and their storage conditions. Some of these fees are forced by an EU regulation, but the last two charges I mentioned are already invented by the authors of this law. In addition, the new regulations impose a number of new obligations on veterinary inspection workers. Nevertheless, the Act does not provide for new expenditure on financial and staff reinforcement (the bell) of the Veterinary Inspection. The Polish People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, it should be noted that the draft of this law, which is the subject of our debate, is not some legislative novel. This is another laying of our legislation under this EU. It is necessary to ask each time on such projects how they reflect Polish specificities and how they serve Polish farmers and Polish agriculture, in general, because in the context of the crisis beyond our eastern border, food security must be ensured. The project itself concerns an increase in the entitlement of district veterinarians to breeders. This EU law gives quite broad powers, it must be said directly, in the hands of inspectors and doctors. They will be able to conclude that, for example, the holding does not meet the standards for retail trade, whether they will be able to decide which farm can receive EU subsidies and which are not. And that creates a field of abuse, you have to say it to yourself. Polish farmers and farmers, whose farms have often fallen under the burden of official overzealousness, may also suffer. This was a fact in the context of e.g. measures to combat African swine fever. The new EU law has a scale of this overzealousness de facto to expand. We know that Eurocrats do not often deal with the voice of farmers and farmers and are increasingly introducing such solutions. Giving these wide powers, with all my respect for the county inspectors, is a little reckless, because here in some people this overzealousness can take the upper hand and it can be harmful. Instead of extending such powers, perhaps farmers should not be disturbed so that they can carry out their work freely. In this law there is a record of slaughter for its own use. We think it should be even wider in model terms. This slaughter should be permitted on pasture or on a holding, e.g. with firearms. The removal of meat should also be made possible on the farm. And perhaps it would be worth changing this way to allow more freedom in what this slaughter looks like, because it often also increases the comfort of such an animal, where we avoid transport, which is objectively stressful for animals, and an animal in a well-known environment... [[Voice from the Chamber: Illnesses, sir.]] ...in this case it could make this life to serve people later. This official overzealousness should not be extended. Instead (The Bell) should be facilitated, facilitated and facilitated once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. We've got 14 people asking. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, first question. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. [[I'm here.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The relevant directives were presented by the European Union already in the first year of operation of the United Right Government, which, throughout the first term of office and half of the second, I understand, did not find time to deal with this issue. On the other hand, she found time to ruin the judicial system, ruin Polish education, try to eliminate free media, release her officials from criminal liability for actions that expose the budget to millions of losses, and not enough time to introduce food control standards. I would like to address the question, and ask for a reply in writing to the Prime Minister: What important reasons have caused you not to address the problem immediately after you have taken up your position, Prime Minister? Why has this subject been trivialized during a period of rampant plague, which has been decimated by pigs? Why did the government not take the required action, and why did it delay the implementation of these provisions for six years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u222	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order to ensure that staff carrying out official controls and other official activities are free from conflicts of interest, it is envisaged that designated veterinarians shall make a declaration under criminal responsibility concerning the performance of other paid activities by them. Minister, has any analysis been carried out in view of possible changes in personnel? I am referring to the situations of refusal to make statements of property and therefore the vacancies in these positions. Do you have such knowledge that they can appear, if so, what is the number? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u224	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law contains provisions on the implementation of the electronic data collection and circulation system intended for veterinary inspection. It will allow, among others, obtaining reliable data e.g. the use of antibiotics, which in turn can significantly reduce their use in animal production. I therefore ask for information on the government's plans for the real deadline for the electronic book to be put into service. When will veterinary services and breeders get a ready-made tool and be able to use it? How long is it planned to complete the implementation of this system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u226	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of this Veterinary Inspection Act is to adapt our legislation in a way that facilitates the application of EU law, namely Regulation 2017/625. In the next 10 years, the proposed change is intended to ensure revenue for the state budget of about PLN 150 million per year. In accordance with recital 65 of the said Regulation, Member States should ensure that adequate financial resources are available at all times to employ an adequate number of employees and that competent authorities carrying out official controls and other official activities are properly equipped. The same recital in the Regulation sets out the collection of fees or charges as one of the sources of financing for inspection posts. So my question is: What amount will be allocated to the increase and the creation of new posts of the Veterinary Inspection as a result of this revision of the revenue of the State budget? We all know that the salaries there are low, there are no employees, and that money should go there.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u228	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we read, among others. the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber, which refers to additional charges, those which are not currently in operation and which, according to the Chamber, would not be needed. In addition, in the descriptive section on monetary impact, we are looking at 25 changes, 11 of which refer to the introduction of a new fee, the extension of the fee, the change of the fee rate. So in 11 cases this is an increase in the cost of operating these implemented solutions. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what is justified by the introduction of these additional charges, many new charges. Is this solely due to EU rules or to what the government has proposed and who will bear the consequences of these additional charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u230	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! In Podkarpacie the ASF problem is unsolved to the end and today we are proceeding with the Veterinary Inspection Act. In part, it can be said that certain measures have been transferred or have been strengthened on a permanent basis by granting further inspection posts in the Mielec district on paper - I will say: in a special way because, despite the fact that the State has granted employment, there is a shortage of veterinarians and there is no possibility for them to be employed. This is a huge problem in places where there is the largest pig production hole. I would like to ask you what kind of solutions you are planning to put in place, so that salaries are higher and that, despite the appointments, this recruitment is effective and (The bell) a good solution for farmers and safety. I'm not talking about documents, about today's resolution, I'm talking about the case...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u233	...which fits into the context of the Veterinary Inspection Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u234	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the areas governed by the Veterinary Inspection Act is the area associated with the operation of official laboratories, national reference laboratories. One of the new entries that emerged concerns the need for audits of official laboratories by national reference laboratories. It is a delegation contained in Regulation 2017/625. However, there is still an obligation to control these laboratories, so it is now and so will be in the future. However, there was a record that the frequency should be such that each laboratory should be checked over a period of 3 years, which means a much higher intensity of these controls compared to the previous ones. I would like to ask if the proposed records are up to date (the bell) and will they not become regulations...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u237	...impossible or very difficult to implement in certain areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government of the Republic of Poland ensures food security in terms of quality and quantity, and it does it best. On the other hand, I am surprised by the opposition, Madam President, that it undermines the quality of our food and also undermines our earnings. Because it is not true that someone earns up to 2500 PLN gross. It just came out of your mouth. The minimum wage is 3,000. Evil, that is not true. [[This is from the NIK report. Please read the NIK report.]] I'm not interested in the NIK report today, we're just talking about facts. [[I'm talking about facts.]] It is worth telling the truth today, not to miss it. Therefore, Minister, will the Veterinary Inspection Act contribute to improving the quality of food? We improve it, we improve it. We're moving away from the paper records towards electronic records (the bell), which means we're giving the Veterinary Inspection...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u241	...better insights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u242	Thank you very much. [[Hello, hello, sir, just a moment.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u244	Members, if you want to talk, I'm gonna need you out of the room, okay? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u245	A very important issue concerning the functioning of the Veterinary Inspection and the level of services it provides and the condition of the entire veterinary profession is the problem of the specialization of veterinarians and the functioning of the Commission for the Specialization of Veterinary Physicians. I ask the question: Will the new rules ensure the expertise, competence of the members of the Committee on the Specialization of Veterinary Doctors and allow for the fulfilment of expectations in this area of the entire veterinary doctor's community, including the representative environment of the National Veterinary Chamber? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. [[Too bad it's not Mielec's question.]] Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u247	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to ask you a question. Of course, I know that no one's reports are inconvenient, and if they're not what you like, they can't be quoted. Read it. Of course, I would like to ask, having this opportunity, the chief veterinarian, what is progress in this range. How many new employment contracts were signed in 2021 and possibly in 2022? [[Applause]] How many more jobs are there? How many contracts have been signed when it comes to new jobs? It's not about changing jobs from one job to another, it's about new jobs. Is the Minister convinced that you will actually have more jobs by the end of the year and enough to increase the number of employees? On the other hand, I never said from this speaker that food was dangerous. All I said was that there was danger, and I was quoting the NIK report on the research that should be carried out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I said there's an increasing danger of lack of control. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u248	Thank you. [[You have to read with understanding.]] Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The contested law imposes a number of additional obligations on the Veterinary Inspection, including on district veterinarians. On current tasks, veterinarians are already working at full turnover, and often in powiats there are numerous staff shortages in veterinary inspections. During the consultation on the draft law of the National Association of Veterinarian Workers, he argued that the project did not provide for new expenditure on strengthening financial and staff inspections. The authors of the law did not take this comment into account in the draft, explaining that the far-reaching extension of this scope of regulation is not desirable due to the effect of such action in the form of extension of work on the draft law. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you about Warmia and Mazury. My friend asked about Podkarpat, and I'll ask about Warmia and Mazury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will the fourth quarter be paid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Szulowski explicitly justified the need for the market to adopt these long-awaited solutions by threatening to impose EU sanctions and sanctions. It is sad, Mr President, that, for so many years, no one has been willing to lean on the dramatic situation, even in the Veterinary Inspection. The threat of punishment, sanctions, and a knife on the throat of the state is only the reason for this. Well, fortunately, we're in the Union, better than nothing. My question specifically concerns the noisy announcement of the creation of 1,500 new jobs. I understand that this is the result of your deep analysis and your adopted strategy. I have a question: What specific financial resources have been planned and budgeted for this purpose? What is the time limit for reaching this goal? Will it be only newly created jobs or will it also be part of these funds - if so, what is it - intended to change salaries or raise existing jobs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u252	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Lech Antoni Kołakowski will answer the questions raised by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would like to thank all the clubs and Members very warmly for their cooperation in yesterday's committee meeting. This is a very necessary and expected law that regulates a very large number of essential issues relating to the Veterinary Inspection. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not address the political issues that have been raised, but, speaking of matters relating to the matter of this law, I would like to share information and answer questions as well. If I do not answer all the questions, the other questions that will not be answered will be answered in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! 2022 is a record year when the budget for veterinary medicine amounts to 1 963 904 thousand. zł. In view of recent years, as well as many problems related to infectious diseases, as well as the basic activities of the Veterinary Inspection, the measures increased by the Polish government to veterinary medicine are intended to serve food safety, to safeguard healthy food. From this point of view, I would also like to thank all the employees of the Veterinary Inspections very warmly, who are doing a great work for Polish agriculture, food safety and veterinary care and are taking all the measures that regulate the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! Speaking of actions and answering questions about the amount of wages, I would like to say that this situation shows that the Polish government, the resort, takes the necessary measures. And so the main veterinarian through a letter dated 10 February this year. addressed to district veterinarians, it informed about the amount of 75 million for raising salaries from 1 July 2022 secured by the Budget Act for 2022, on an average by PLN 1269 per month for the person employed in the district veterinarian, resulting in a total cost of PLN 43 million. Employment will increase from 1 October this year. by 915 posts, on average 3 posts for the district veterinary inspector, but in this case the final decision will be taken by the voivodships. Expenditure for this purpose is set at about PLN 32 million. A monthly basic salary of PLN 7999 is provided for each new job. In addition, for the Veterinary Inspection for the purpose of increasing salary expenditure, together with its derivatives, an amount of 65 362 000 was foreseen in the Budget Act 2022. PLN in connection with the creation of 604 new inspection posts, of which 15 posts in the Chief Veterinary Inspector, 537 posts in the district veterinary inspectors and 52 new posts in the voivodship veterinary inspectors and veterinary hygiene establishments. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the first and second pots, this is a total of 1519 posts. Once again, I would like to inform you that this year is an exceptional year, when very significant resources were allocated to veterinary medicine, and what is involved also in food safety, healthy food, so much expected by the Polish society. I am answering one of the questions of the President of Sunday here, regarding the staffing of the Veterinary Inspection. Directly answer: 604 new posts for all district, voivodship and chief inspector. Currently, I have no information on the details of their filling, as recruitment procedures are ongoing. Information on recruitment results will be available at the end of the second quarter. Since October 2022, 915 new posts for the Veterinary Inspection will be granted. Ladies and gentlemen! A very important element, so much expected and needed, is the electronic book of animal treatment. The new provisions on the electronic animal treatment book will enter into force on 1 January 2024. The electronic book on animal treatment results directly from EU law governing the supervision and use of veterinary medicinal products, from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on veterinary medicinal products and repealing Directive 2001/82. However, we need to collect early data on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics. That is why we now include this matter in the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. Let me remind you, print number 2152. In accordance with EU Regulation 2019/6, Member States will be required to collect data on sales and use of antimicrobials. The Chief Veterinary Inspector is working on the creation and implementation of the ICT system for the collection and circulation of data intended for the Veterinary Inspection. The information system of the Veterinary Inspection, one of the modules of which is to be an electronic animal treatment book. The introduction of an electronic animal treatment book will ensure that full information on the use of medicinal products by animal species is available for official control purposes without the need for paper documentation. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to present the deadlines for implementation. Firstly, the IT system for the collection of data on the electronic animal treatment book - established by the end of 2022. Secondly, to collect information on the use of antimicrobials in food-producing animals throughout the year 2023, as well as to communicate to the European Medicines Agency, the European Commission authority, information on micro-organism medicinal products for use in animals from 30 April 2024 in accordance with Article. 15 Regulation 2021/578, which is a delegated Regulation to Regulation 2019/6. Ladies and gentlemen! Regarding the merger of Veterinary Inspections, food safety as well as the NIK report - it is only in the operative part - I would stress that the return to the concept of one food inspection in Poland is an open issue, and it will certainly be possible to return to this concept, especially since much has already been done on this issue. At the moment, we are focusing on current issues, on strengthening financial and human resources, improving the performance of the Veterinary Inspection. The adoption of a law amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws will be a milestone in further reforms of the food safety system in Poland. In a nutshell, I will also check your Members' questions. Mrs Płępek - electronic book, Mrs Tracz - raises, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski - fees. With regard to fees: they will be set out in a regulation based on European Union rules, resulting from discussions and, I hope, from a certain good compromise. Mrs Skowrońska - the posts, the increases presented. With regard to the question, the statement by Mr Leszek Galemby: yes, this is a very necessary act, guaranteeing food security of Poland. I'm confirming it, too. Mrs. Dorota Sunday, the NIK case. With regard to Mr Ziejewski's question concerning Warmia and Mazury, I may be able to keep in touch directly by answering precisely. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, thank you very much for your constructive work yesterday at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you for the questions presented today for the information presented. And once again, Mrs Marshal, I would like to say that this is a very necessary, expected solution for the Veterinary Inspection, guaranteeing food safety, these are the expected compensation regulations, with fees. It is also all other matters outside the law. With the entry into force of the Act they will enter into force of the Regulation, will enter into force 12 regulations directly implementing the provisions of the Act, the matter of this Act. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u254	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration (prints No. 2138 and 2197). I would very much like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report to the Joint Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Public Finances on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, print No. 2138. At its 52nd meeting on 7 April this year, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The committees at their meeting on 26 April considered the abovementioned. The draft law and after a brief, substantive and good discussion, they ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u257	Dear Marshal! Honourable Members! High Izbo! Presentation by the Ministry of Finance and adopted by the Council of Ministers of a draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration will enable bilateral communication between the authorities of the National Tax Administration and taxpayers. It is also a secure, fast contact providing access to remote KAS services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It should be stressed that the systemic changes introduced in the National Tax Administration are already another step towards digitising services in the service of citizens. The e-Tax Office system will replace the existing tax portal. The current rules do not change if the taxpayer decides to remain in the current tax portal, but this e-Tax Office system, as the most modern ICT tool, will play a key role in contacts with the authorities of KAS for taxpayers. The legislative solutions proposed in the legislative act allow the potential of the system to be harnessed in order to facilitate access to KAS bodies and to deal with matters which do not require direct contact immediately. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I propose an amendment which aims to postpone the amendments until 2024 as regards the obligation to integrate online registers with payment terminals. This is a way out to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. Instead of the deferred obligation and for the duration of the deferral, the obligation to provide monthly information on payment transactions by clearing agents to the head of the National Tax Administration shall be provided. The remaining changes concern the possibility for the head of the tax office and the head of the customs and treasury office to request the clearing agent to provide information on payment transactions made using the terminal. The Law and Justice Club upholds its position and will vote in favour of the proposal, including the amendment passed on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We welcome changes to improve the work of tax authorities, the service of taxpayers, institutions, including those with information obligations such as notaries, bailiffs to the courts or payers. Access to online information, on-line handling, also exempting certificates from the tax charge upon request in the system are good solutions. On the other hand - I signaled this in my first reading - our opposition raises the rules on the article. 297, actually added article. 297e Tax Order. CBA, ABW, Police, Public Prosecutor's Office, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, KNF, Border Guard will have access to the Central Register of Taxation Data, as defined in Article. 35 laws on KAS, i.e. collected, analysed, processed data. These are tax returns, decisions, resolutions, executive titles, JPK, virtually all, VIES, National e-Factur System. It is worth noting that these services had and have access to these data under Article. 297 when they are conducting proceedings. What you are proposing is not the way that a democratic rule of law should go, because the State should apply the principle of proportionality and should make this data available when economic security, the economic interest of the State, is indeed at risk. The history of the disease is interesting here, because the access of ABW and CBA provided a change to the VAT Act in 2019 and in fact few people noticed it. From 16 April 2022, the text of the Article shall apply. 297e introduced in April, still this month, a law on countering aggression against Ukraine. This act was added, among others. Police with very extensive tasks, Border Guard and Minister of Foreign Affairs. But note: in the printing of a government presentation, in a government submission, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Border Guard disappears, they are not mentioned, the prosecutor and the KNF appear. It's a total mess. Within the framework of this submission, the scope of action on access has also been changed, which was, by the way, a good change in the right direction. As far as KNF's scope is concerned, I'll be right back and I'll say a few words. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the old, from 16 April, a very wide range for the police. The legally defined extent to which the designated authorities will be able to obtain data goes far beyond the tasks directly related to the prosecution of tax offences or offences. [[Applause]] A clear example is the very broad scope of the mandate for the KNF President. Power shall be designed subject to all tasks set out in Article. 4 Financial Market Surveillance Act. And it's not just the financial market, it's supervision, but it's also for example. taking actions to support the development of innovation, educational, information and cooperation with the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. Tax data is not necessary for these tasks. The scope of tasks justifying the acquisition of data from the Central Register of Taxation Data should be closely linked to the performance of tasks aimed at ensuring safety and preventing undesirable phenomena. Therefore, it would be reasonable to limit this access, e.g. as regards KNF, only issues relating to the supervision of the financial market. In principle, clarification of the scope could be considered as a substitute for the requirement to provide information from the initiation of the procedure. This would no longer be unlimited access at this point. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that would be under normal conditions, in a law-abiding state. But we're not. There is still a question of how this will work in practice. This formula gives rise to many dangers. We believe that a better solution should be refined, precisely regulated, including technically, cooperation between bodies, rather than equiping each of them with the same instrumentarium. This construction of the Ministry Poland, which duplicates activities and tasks, multiplys costs, generates chaos, creates unnecessary risk of leakages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u260	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u261	I don't see why you're doing this. It's not rational. I submit on behalf of the Civic Platform Club an amendment deleting the article. 297e Tax Order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. [[It's safe now, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u263	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the Left Member's Club on the draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, print No. 2138. The very assumptions of the proposed law introducing automation of the handling of certain matters supported by the National Tax Administration using the existing IT systems of the KAS are of course absolutely correct. On the other hand, our reservations are about how the PiS government is working on these changes, but about this in a moment. With regard to the changes themselves - it is appropriate to continue to transform the e-U.S. Tax Office, which is to be an information and transaction service not only for taxpayers, attorneys and notaries, but also for payers and bailiffs. Two-way communication of clients with KAS and KAS bodies with customers will rightly be possible, which will make communication via portals or mobile applications equivalent in legal terms to traditional activities. The Left Club hopes that this will contribute to reducing the work intensity and costs of processing information, reducing the costs of carrying out cases, simplifying forms and how they are completed and submitting them, that this will eliminate the submission of a number of detailed documents so far applicable, that it will be possible to download, fill in and forward documents from anywhere, including from your own home or office. It is only surprising that this bill, which was prepared 2 years ago and 2 years ago socially consulted, was in the official drawer all this time to be drawn out of this drawer at the end of April this year and cast by Members of Parliament to vote. We were given only 2 days to read it and verify the proposed entries with the stakeholders. In September this year. the deadline for the implementation of the EU OPPC programme, which finances the changes made. I'm sure that's why the ministry suddenly remembered that. But did it have to be done after two years on a cap-cap and sloppy? To my question asked at first reading, did some records not become obsolete for 2 years and do not require verification, the government's response was not. However, it appeared yesterday at the meeting of the Finance Committee, on which the PiS made eight fathomable amendments, including a few reminders of the effects of the COVID laws introduced in the meantime, as if it had not been noticed in those two years before, and of which at least two, as the Legislative Office noted in its opinion, the substantively correct, concerning the fire department and certain VAT groups, go far beyond the scope of the law. All these amendments were written, as it turned out, on the knee. The officials of the Legislative and Ministerial Office only read and tried to correct them warmly during the committee meeting. Why all the chaos and mess? All the more so because there is a new VAT law in the Sejm for the fire department. These proposals could easily be added to their respective laws. The changes introduced will exclude the costs of taxable persons related to the tax charge for certificates issued by the e-Tax Office. The Left Club pointed out at the first reading of the project that these changes concerning the exclusion of the obligation to pay the tax would reduce the revenue of local government units - 16,800 thousand. zł - and that this lack should be completed, this loss of income. The government, in response to our request, promised to supplement the amount of the loss of income of the JST in this respect. The Left Club also recalls the request of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, with whom the project was consulted, reminds that cases concerning registration into VAT of taxable persons who do not have their registered office or permanent place of business in Poland should be included in the catalogue of the types of cases that may be dealt with in the e-Office, which will expand the taxable base and bring more VAT revenue to the state budget. However, in order for the proposed changes not to be limited to the formal and technical benefits for taxpayers, they must be accompanied by precise regulations and interpretations of the legislation currently being introduced by the government and the constantly corrected flood of changes in VAT, PIT and CIT payments, which so far only create a sense of chaos, uncertainty and confusion, both between payers, natural persons and entrepreneurs themselves, as well as trying to serve their financial and accounting services and tax officials themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is enough to remind that so far, 900 amendments and corrections have been introduced in Polish tax law on PIT, CIT and VAT, and so-called. The Polish Load was commonly hailed as an inertial disorder and a nightmare of both the taxpayer and the tax official. Until the tax law itself in Poland is simple and clear, both for payers and those who enforce these payments by the authorities, none of the best-designed automation will actually benefit. The Left Club will vote for this bill. As regards the amendment proposed by the Civic Coalition, we had the same doubts. We will support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u264	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This project kind of looks like it treats entrepreneurs with a kind of stick and carrot. On the one hand, it is difficult not to share those positive opinions on improvements that are certainly expected by customers of the National Tax Administration, mainly entrepreneurs - in fact these demands have been running continuously for many years to maximise the use of modern technologies that will facilitate the handling of cases that appear in every enterprise or business - but on the other hand, not for the first time, what we are already a little accustomed to in this House, on the other hand, some incomprehensible competences arise in the case of services, bodies which are associated with the prosecution of criminals, which are those competences when it comes to investigating, explaining and downloading various information, e.g. from economic operators, they have plenty in other laws. It's very amazing. Once again, we have a strange solution, and I share the concerns of the speakers who seem unnecessary here. Of course, we are ready to support this bill as a club, because we are with entrepreneurs, behind entrepreneurs. Anywhere where tax services can be facilitated or contacts with fiscal entities, we will do so. I would like to call once again on the initiators of this project. Really, consider whether there is a need for competence for law enforcement in this project. It's nothing, I think, it doesn't bring up, it's just ruining this bill and it's giving such a very bad signal, not for the first time, to the business community, to treat a little bit of everyone as a suspect, as insecure, as prone to crime, to some kind of mumbo jumbo. Polish entrepreneurs are mostly solid, responsible and honest people. I think that every act affecting them, which comes out of the Polish Sejm, should give such a positive signal, and not with regularity, unfortunately quite large, question this authority and importance of Polish entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, as I said, we have a positive opinion on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u266	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The tax office is a good and expected project, and it is already operational. And that's actually where I could end my speech if it wasn't for Art. Paragraph 7 (14) is amended as follows: Only the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office have access to the Central Register of Taxation Data today. You add the Financial Supervision Commission, the D.A.'s office and the police to this catalogue. This is the next time you quietly, under the pretense of other things, limit our freedom and our privacy. In February, you did the same thing under the cover of the Polish Order. Tax offices will be able to scan bank accounts not only of suspects or suspects, but of every Polish woman and every Pole. Of course, you introduced this without discussion, on the occasion of the amendment of 26 other legal acts, on the basis of the so-called. Throwers, quieter, if I remember correctly, late tonight. Let's move on. The Homeland Defense Act. All data and information about each and every one of us will be displayed on a plate for all military authorities, from military counterintelligence to the Territorial Defence Army. No control, no security, no discussion among hundreds of pages and thousands of other laws. Isn't that enough? Changing the way of tolls, tracking the location of each user of the e-TOLL application, whether it is travelling on a toll road or moving on a free road. The Act on the General Agricultural Census. All telephone numbers in correlation with all PESEL numbers at the government's disposal. Surveillance systems. You know, all conversations, all text messages, logs of use of the network for 2 years at the service's disposal without consent and without the knowledge of the interested. I do not mention wiretapping or operational activities, because we all know the subject, although in the opinion of the Marshal of the Sejm, Marshal Elizabeth Witek, this topic is supposedly no longer important lately. Interestingly, after years it turns out that black and white, such access to data is simply illegal. It is worth mentioning the judgment of the Voivodship Administrative Court in the case of Polish Post and pretended so-called. envelope choices. But what if, after years, no one knows the fate of the data that you freely and illegally passed on to the state company, the minister of digitalization of the government of that time? Of course, we are making an amendment on this change in the tax regime. It is not as far-reaching as the Civic Coalition amendment, but at least restricts access to cases involving the recognition of tax offences. Why is it that even in good laws you must include regulations that are harmful to people, such ordinary people - Poles and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. First, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u269	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, some of the rules that are in this project are good ones. There's no doubt about it. Unfortunately, this bill refers to a very bad tradition, which we have been dealing with for 6 years, and the essence of this tradition is to enter into subsequent projects the basis for reaching for data of Poles and Poles without any safeguards, without any restrictions by any subsequent service, whether it is needed or not. Thus, there are provisions in this law that will enable the authorities of the State, the services of the State to reach for the billing data in situations where there is no justification for this. I will remind you that, on the one hand, the services must have the right software, but on the other hand, no one controls it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question to the government: Will someone finally dare to stand up and disagree with such avalanche and unceremonious sharing of all Polish and Polish data to the services?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions, the first one concerns the technological side of the preparation, the adjustment of the tax office system to the needs of people with disabilities, visually impaired or even blind. Are their needs taken into account when designing this service and how? Does the website work properly with content-reading overlays? What is the issue of scaling fonts, what is navigation with the keyboard? This is, of course, an elementary, and the state should be well aware of these requirements. Has anyone gone to the trouble of getting the website adapted for this? And the second question, anything academic: What is the process of dealing with the data contained in the e-tax office after the announcement of someone's consumer bankruptcy and after such a decision has been confirmed? How long are the data stored, what happens to them, how much data are deleted, and how are these data used in subsequent operations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a few questions on your lips. Here they are. Did the government, by automating the work of the National Tax Administration, foresee mechanisms which automatically, e.g. Would they save employees of this administration from situations in which they were put up with something called Polish Load? Are there any vending machines in a situation where a bitter citizen seeks rescue from an equally embittered tax administration officer who wishes and cannot answer a citizen because he is facing a wall of absurd, contradictory and non-living laws? In this connection, I have this question: Does the government have any automatics to solve disputes with the employees of this institution, including disputes about the remuneration system? Because that's what it's been like lately. And I think the questions I've asked are far more important than questions about what e-mail address will be sent to official correspondence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In March, the Council of Ministers adopted a bill amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The project was prepared almost two years ago, for unknown reasons its legislative path has been going on for so long. Thanks to him, taxpayers will be able to handle their affairs comprehensively, they will not be able to pay the tax. I have a question: What was the amount of the tax charges for handling cases in 2021? And why do taxpayers have to wait so long to simplify administrative matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. There is no Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, you've forgotten about people. A strike started this week at the National Tax Administration. Every day at noon workers and workers will leave their jobs. The choice of the end of April, which is particularly important for tax settlements, shows how determined these people are. You haven't been able to get along with this professional group in months. You've frozen your salaries, even though the IRS' work was particularly difficult during the outbreak. This was decided by Ms Magdalena Reszkowska, the head of the National Tax Administration, who has been promoted and headed by the Ministry of Finance since yesterday. It's best to show that you have deep respect for workers' rights. Before you start discussing the automation of the National Tax Administration, step out of this building, go to the authorities and make a deal with the people who work there. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u278	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the Act in Art. 21 amendments are made to the Act on Volunteer Firefighters. This amendment is moving towards the possibility of transferring to municipalities which carry out their own fire protection tasks, special subsidies from the state budget through voivodships. I ask you kindly to answer the question in which part of the State budget for 2022 we have the funds provided as grants to municipalities for the implementation of fire protection tasks. And if we don't, what means does the government intend to support the municipalities in carrying out important fire protection tasks, such as maintaining guards, accessories with specialist equipment, car purchases, specialized uniforms or individual firefighters' safety? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an important solution, but I would like to know the sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u280	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mrs. Margaret Navel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The pandemic period has clearly demonstrated the importance of creating information systems enabling citizens to handle matters electronically. The creation of an e-tax office and the extension of its functionality is extremely necessary today. But does the government also care about the security of this data to the same extent? Looking at the international situation, it is mainly about Russia, where hacker groups are constantly bragging about stealing data from various important institutions, it raises the question whether, in addition to the development of the IT system itself, the government can provide citizens with the security of data placed there. Has there been any attempt at stealing this data? Were there any signals like that? How does the government assess the security of the system? Is the extension of its (Bingle) development equally being carried out on its security features? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u282	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u283	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! To the questions asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, I am joining you, but the scope of this bill will be critical of the fact that this is another law of surveillance+. It wasn't enough for you, but it didn't go well, it's reporting cases of the possibility of contagion to COVID to everyone, and in this case, in this bill, you propose that without tax proceedings... As cleverly you have done in the Polish Łada, which has entered since 1 July this year, in the case of tax proceedings it is about information relating, among others, to personal data, accounts, keeping accounts, everything that the customer has in the bank. But in this case you enter (the bell) art. 297e concerning access to our data without the conduct of tax proceedings by KNF - there is definitely no need, the prosecutor's office, the police, the CBA. You already have the Pegasus system to track us. The CBA amounted to PLN 6.5 million. Take care of 6.5 million PLN and a ventilator scandal, as well as execution, not access to our data. We don't want this surveillance plus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the bill, it might seem that there should be full agreement, because it facilitates communication between taxpayers and the National Tax Administration. It's a bill that allows a taxpayer to obtain a certificate without a tax charge. But, as we have heard, the opposition, possessed with persecution, sees some tricks, looks for a needle in a haystack. In the meantime, I wanted to ask if, in connection with the introduction of this law, any number of posts would be released in the National Tax Administration. If so, will they be shifted to new tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u286	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Deputy Head of the National Tax Administration, Ms. Anna Chalupa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for noticing that the introduction of the bill will have a positive effect on more than 30 million PIT, CIT and VAT taxpayers, payers, attorneys, bailiffs and notaries. This is a very important change, which is designed to improve the cooperation of the National Tax Administration with each Pole qualitatively. It will greatly simplify and improve tax handling. It will increase the number of cases dealt with in a comprehensive manner in an electronic manner, as well as improve the scope, quality of communication between the customer of the National Tax Administration and the National Tax Administration itself. On the other hand, on the side of employees of tax offices, work intensity, time-consuming processes carried out so far will decrease, and this will have an impact on improving the quality and up-to-date of the data collected. This is very important. As for the types of cases that will be dealt with in the tax office, we recognise that this system is developing and we want to move as many things as possible to the tax office. This will be detailed in the regulations. As regards the question of Art. 297e, I would like to point out that the services already have access to the tax data that you are talking about. It's the Intelligence Agency, the police, the ABW, the CBA. We are extending this availability of data to prosecutors to a specific extent and to the chairman of the KNF. [[Why?]] These changes are intended to contribute to a more effective identification, prevention and fight against crime, primarily tax-based crime. Ladies and gentlemen, the work lasted for two years because it required agreement with partners, such as with the prosecutor's office or with bailiffs, so that the changes that will enter were not ad hoc, but thought through, as professionally as possible, and to improve the availability of communication with the National Tax Administration as best as possible. The e-Share Office website will meet all standards, seems to be the WCAG standard when it comes to accessibility for people with disabilities. The point is that every Pole really has access to the portal of the taxpayer in the best possible quality. We're definitely doing all the data security tests. These data are not collected in the tax office itself, but are collected in the registers of the National Tax Administration by the authorities that have the authority to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u288	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[There was no answer to our questions.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law on the Copernicus Academy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (prints No. 2070 and 2200). I would like to ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Presidential draft law on the Copernicus Academy, Parliamentary Printing No 2070. Yesterday, before the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, we moved on to a detailed discussion of the draft law in question, President Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka gave the floor to many Members and guests of the committee who once again spoke very critically about the proposed act. In these, often very emotional statements, no one shared the idea contained in the justification of the project that it could contribute to the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science in the world. A request for rejection was made and a second request for a public hearing was made. Both conclusions have been dropped. Then we moved on to discussing the project. I've tabled five amendments. Several other amendments, which I accepted as the lead Member, were tabled by the Legislative Bureau. All amendments were accepted by the committee. The Commission has given a positive opinion on the proposal. The committee's position is in Seym Printing No 2200. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u291	I can't hear you right now. Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am now honored to present my club's position on this bill. This law essentially complements the actions already taken in 2007 by the Law and Justice. These actions were intended to raise the rank of Polish science, because the fact that she was in bad shape was clear to all those who were engaged in science. The first idea we had at the time was to set up a National Centre for Research and Development. This idea was successfully introduced between 2005 and 2007. Fortunately, this project was continued by the PO-PSL coalition. Later, I tried to introduce a project called the Research Agency, because I am aware that science is not only applied research, but also broadening knowledge, it is also basic research, which can be used in the near future, apart from cognitive, philosophical, mathematical, completely theoretical research. At that time, of course, my proposal was rejected by Mr Chmielewski, but fortunately the PO-PSL coalition introduced, once again rightly, the National Science Centre, which also gave the opportunity to better define Polish science. Also then we tried to introduce - it was rejected by the coalition - the gradual co-financing of Polish science, because the fact that it was underfunded, of course, was clear to everyone. We wanted to increase funding every year by 0.25% GDP, but obviously the coalition didn't do it. I told you, I predicted that if it did, no one would be able to fill this hole, because when it comes to bad funding, it was just growing over the years. It wasn't an act, it was a process of constant underfinancing, and this hole, it all got really big. Now there's a chance. There were other ideas, already later, Centrum Łukasiewicz, which would give an opportunity to increase the competitiveness of Polish science. I see an opportunity in this project. If we use it, it's hard for me to say today. If there is such an obstruction of the scientific community as I have seen today, full of emotion, when it condemns itself in a crambling, nothing good will happen. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have low requirements for Polish science. If 2007 Poles have submitted, and in the budget we have written that we, Poles, are to submit 20-35 patent applications to show that we are innovative, while other developed countries have submitted several thousand applications, then of course I have raised the gap, as we can appreciate Poles so low that so low requirements are placed against Polish scientists, towards Polish engineers. Within 7 years, the Civic Platform has increased this number from 35 to 50. Of course, I say all the time: this should not be the case, Polish science is too great, there are too many smart and hardworking people here to set the bar so low. During the reign of Prime Minister Morawiecki, our engineers filed 483 patents at the European Patent Office in 2020, and this year we exceeded 500. This is a qualitative change. It can be seen that if some ideas are realized and open, it is a good chance that it will be beneficial for Poland. I think maybe this idea of the Copernican Academy will wake up the scientific community, because this environment has great potential, but it's distracted. Such small environments are underfunded, much less subsidised than large environments. This academy is supposed to appreciate real work, real, real, because I am ashamed that on the list announced in Washington on October 20th last year our best university, the Jagiellonian University, was in 320th position. It's just a shame for a great nation like Poland. We absolutely should be in the top 50, only need to be properly and reasonably spent money. There must be a good promotion of science and promotion of everyone, not just the big ones who do nothing but want to be worn on their shoulders. I am ashamed, ladies and gentlemen, because there are only eight Polish universities in the first thousand of the best universities in the world, and it is basically in the end, because 320. is Jagiellonian University, 360. University of Warsaw, and then it's already 800. and very, very distant positions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that if the scientific community opens up to this proposal, we have a great chance of reflection and we can be truly and real in European and global science. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u292	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! The Civic Coalition Club, outraged once again by the process of this unconstitutional, unwise, even harmful project, is once again asking for the rejection of it, which I am placing on the hands of your marshal. Why do we think that this project is not even worth debating? Ladies and gentlemen, the president is not even here. It's a total shame. I do not know whether the President is aware that he is firming a project that we know about - and Members know, and the scientific community knows, and the government also knows, because yesterday at the committee meeting it was quite clear - that the project is unconstitutional. Because the project, by the way, which builds up Polish science, excludes civil liberties for a while. The project, which is intended to strengthen Polish science, simply harms this science. Against him are all, absolutely all environments, grammar and academic colleges, starting with the General Council of Science and Higher Education by, for example, KRASP, student associations, trade unions, including a trade union for Solidarity of Science Workers. The project is completely unclear financially, the financing cases are not discussed at all properly or on a rather vague basis. The Minister will decide, the Prime Minister will allocate, there is nothing said about formal law matters concerning the formation of colleges. There is no dialogue on how these colleges would be created and for whom. All we can hear is what we hear from the academic community, but also from the government, that we're just gonna take the faculty away from the universities. If this is to be the case in Poland, this is the case for strengthening the scientific community, then you do not know anything about strengthening the scientific environment. This is pure devastation. On the other hand, the bill contains detailed arrangements for the Copenhagen congress, where we will find out who and when will decide that an ambulance will be set up, and we will not know what money, what buildings, what powers, what students will be able to study at this Copenhagen primary school. If you wanted to do something good for Polish science, it didn't work out for you. Because... And here I listened to the rapporteur, Mr PiS, who said that Polish universities are in bad shape and that they do not train, as they should be, that they are low in rankings, so you create a university that is created by unclear rules, with unclear funding. You are immediately giving her an incentive - normally as in the Bear - to have a degree in the form of a B+ category, and until 2027, assuming a priori that this level will be maintained. We don't know why. It is not known why you think it is necessary to duplicate the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Polish Academy of Skills and NAWA, additionally corrupting scientists who are to be part of the proposed corporation. The strict corporations with political broadcasting, because it is the politicians who will decide who will be involved in science in Poland. And you say that this is to improve Polish science and that Polish education is to improve the creation of colleges. No, Polish education is intended to improve the education of young people from kindergarten, through primary schools, secondary schools to higher education, careful selection of staff, investment in research and development. You're not suggesting that at all. You think you're gonna get something big with giant grants and a salary for sitting at the science academy. You will achieve great chaos and nothing more. Perhaps a few colleagues from the PiS will earn money, but the shame of this Copernican Academy will be all over the world, because whoever wants to cooperate with the university stricte political? Unfortunately, at least some of us remember these days. Some people remember what dorms used to look like, what nominations were like, how stubborn and politicized it all was. And what, now yours will be on the central committee again, this time the Law and Justice? We are appalled that the project - so silly, so controversial - is being forced. But to be honest, to me, yesterday's committee meeting... When the Members of the PiS and the representative of the President, who - attention, attention! - on a constitutional oath, they found out the records were unconstitutional, what did they say? And we're gonna bring it in. And this translation that they are introducing, because now there is a dangerous situation in Poland, and the Copenhagen Congress will be next year. So they're making a grandpa and a breach of the law so they can further restrict civil liberties. That's all you want. The destruction of science, the acquisition of money and the restriction of freedom, freedom of science (the bell) and freedom of citizens. Once again, we call for the rejection of this harmful project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marcin Kulasek. Excuse me, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the vote room after the first reading, it was visible what environment was most concerned with the creation of a new center for medals, decorations, grants or various kinds of grants. It also showed the environment in which new positions and public functions need to be multiplied. We understand that in human nature, no matter how much you already have, you always want more. I understand that vocation for social money of a new form of distribution gives a shadow of the chance that for all those representing this right political option there will be an additional trough. However, there are no Members pushing this bill - if today the PiS Club determines such importance for Polish science that there are three Members in this Chamber on this Kopernikian law, in which we want to change and push the Polish science into new tracks, then really huge congratulations that this is the interest. But the fact that there are three members of the PiS, I can already understand, but the fact that there is no representative of the one who wrote this project, namely the President or someone from the President's office, seems to indicate that the President listened to what we said during the first debate and probably listened to what we are now talking about this excellent Copenhagen project. Because it's just that the president's representatives in the world didn't come. We are very pleased that the President has been so involved in the development of Polish science and in its widely understood funding, but we do not fully understand why Mr President signed up for another institution whose aim is exclusively, as I said here, to share public money after having met his own needs. Do we have any shortcomings in the sector that organises conferences or split grants in Poland? After all, you in the Ministry of Education so perfectly divide these grants into your own, that you probably do not need a new state institution. Mr. President! With all due respect to you, for what you are doing for Poland and Poles, but you are trying to create several dozen or even several hundred new jobs and to give the established institution not only jobs, but - just as the law provides - you are trying to give this institution land, buildings and you are trying to hand over to it according to the law tens of millions of zlotys coming from the pockets of hard-working Poles. Dear Mr. President, Why are you doing this? Does the government really have a shortage of institutions or foundations suspended from the Polish budget and need another institution? Why and for whom do we need jobs? Why and for whom is all this splendor? I have a request, Mr. President. Make a deal with individual ministers and create the required number of posts within existing institutions. Poles at least save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u296	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's save money for defense and for difficult times. Undoubtedly unnecessary expenditure is the creation of a new, extensive institution, as the proposal for a law on the Copernican Academy says. All basic tasks referred to in Article. 3 projects are currently well implemented by other respected institutions in Poland and the world. This is of course the Polish Academy of Sciences, Academy of Skills, Foundation for Polish Science. The funding of scientific research and development is sufficiently addressed by extensive government agencies such as the National Science Centre, the National Centre for Research and Development, the National Agency for Academic Exchange, and in the field of medical science quite recently established Medical Research Agency. A very important commemoration of the anniversary of the birth of Nicolaus Copernicus was the establishment of a state holiday just on 19 February, as a Polish Science Day. The convention held in Toruń in 2020 and awarded to the most outstanding scientists on this occasion did not require the creation of a new institution, the funds came from the budget of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The creation of an academy with a proud name: Copernican Academy is not necessary, therefore on behalf of the Circle Polska 2050 I submit an application for rejection of the bill in its entirety. Probably the government will not support this proposal, which is why I am making another proposal for an amendment which significantly reduces the amount of budget appropriations that the authors of the project submitted for the signature by the President of the Republic of Poland, which may reach hundreds of millions of zlotys. We call for the deletion of Chapter 8 and all items concerning the creation of the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School. This idea met with criticism of all major higher education and science environments. This new Warsaw University, with departments scattered around the country, created on the unknown basis, to whom the money is taken and for which it is not justified, and giving it four years full academic powers without knowing the people who are to create it, or other resources, poses a threat of specific political corruption, where, with the exception of the generally functioning regulations, it is allowed for the benefit of those who choose extremely difficult to attain the privileges of the university. Let's save money for defense and for difficult times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u298	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u299	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! It is extremely sad to speak in this debate, because on the one hand we are talking about a very important, even strategic area of functioning of our country, namely science, and on the other hand we are forced to criticize the idea of strengthening this science, because the authorities who have proposed this project do not have much idea of how to do it, or even are wrongly trying to strengthen Polish science. The Copernican Academy is to be a new institution to present grants, scholarships, prizes, strengthen cooperation with foreign research centres, but above all, what is written in the justification, is to increase the prestige of Polish science. Unfortunately, if we were attentive listeners at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, we noticed that from the statements of representatives of Polish science it is not entirely apparent that the creation of this institution would affect the increase in the prestige of Polish science, on the contrary, this academy undermines the prestige of Polish science. The academic community does not leave a dry thread on the project. The opinion was negative, among others. Main Council of Science and Higher Education, Conference of Rectors of the Academy of Polish Schools, Polish Academy of Skills and many others. They consider these entities absurd, among others. that the new institution is to be subject to power. Nicolaus Copernicus School is deprived of autonomy and financial calculations are not calculated. The Bureau of Sejm Analysis also presented a critical opinion on the project. The legislators point out presidential proposals for duplication of structures, creating cracks in law, substantive errors, legislative errors, and even punctuation. The Sejm Analysis Office also correctly points out that the project envisages the creation of a new school with privileges for which other universities work for years. Hence the question: What is this scientific work to be, and to whom should it serve? Parachute for unwanted scientists, power pets? To whom is this new institution to serve? Please tell us for what purpose a solution is introduced in the draft law, which constitutes a breach in the existing organisation of science. The same applies to the financing of the Copernican Academy's activities. This proposal is also a departure from the funding rules of the higher education system. What's all this for? Why do you break the rules and make exceptions when no one in the world of science supports or is able to accept them? The explanatory memorandum of the bill lacks any analysis, whereas only propaganda clichés are included. I believe that the justification at the first stage should be supplemented by the necessary substantive matter, because the project compromises the reputation of the office of the President of the Republic and even makes him ridiculous. The best evidence of this is the lack of participation of representatives of the President in today's debate. Did they get so caught up in committee meetings that today they were ashamed to come and try to speak up in the debate to defend this project? Experts also have comments on the proposed rules for the award of the Copernican Prize, which is worth 500,000. zł. Namely, the election is to be made by the Academy bureau, and candidates are to be submitted first by politicians, president, prime minister, minister. In this way, a circle of candidates is limited to prizes, and the procedure runs counter to good academic practices. My club is not going to support this bill under any circumstances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. There is no Member. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u301	Academics should arise because they are needed, according to the needs reported by the market and entrepreneurs who risk their own capital, which guarantees that they will actually be created when they are needed. There's nothing to suggest that we need another academy. This is in fact just another monument of national socialism built by the PiS. If you want a monument, don't bully science. Build, for example. pyramids, this is a good and proven idea. There's gonna be something to do for a few years, and the pyramid will last as long as 5,000. years, as has been demonstrated by experience so far. Don't do science because you don't know anything about science. Build the pyramids, it has solid foundations, and people will long remember how we built the pyramid. The symbolism would be even better if you built inverted pyramids, such as our demographic pyramid, like the pyramid of our expenses, like the pyramid of our fragile middle class holding this bureaucratic hump. That'd be something. Some tourists would come and benefit from it. Oh, come on, Copernicus. I don't think he'd want to... If he got up from the grave and saw what was going on under his name, I don't think he'd want it. I'm already saying that if anyone ever wanted to name something state after me, thank you in advance. Thank you in advance if you ever thought of anything. I don't know what constructive this academy will be doing. Whether Mr. Glapiński will be lectured there, some alternative economy will explain how it is possible to print money and live from it, or for example. How is it that Putinflation appears six months before the war? Maybe he'll be there, I don't know, some smolenistics, and in June there'll be sasinalia. Let's leave Copernicus out of this. Maybe we should call this institution by the name of which it is worthy, e.g. Jarosław Kaczyński, Minister Sasin or someone else worthy of this initiative and outstanding. Let's leave Copernicus alone. There were also various funny situations, e.g. in advance, the prize parity for outstanding achievements has been set. I suggest that we put in the bill that the achievements of this academy are exceptional on the assumption that no one discusses it because... [[It's category B+.]] ...how the market will verify it, it may be wrong to verify it. Let us establish in advance that these achievements are outstanding. I am not talking about the funny rules that say that if a convention is held in Toruń, then the police will watch over the ban on spontaneous gatherings three days earlier. What emotions will accompany these debates. It strengthens my belief that the program of this academy will be oscillating around the alternative economy. We'll be against it. We're calling for reason, or at least not to involve Copernicus in your suspicious machinations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u302	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Time - 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Megalomania is poured out of every provision of this bill. The summit of megalomania is probably the first Copernican World Congress. It's such an important party that she's even had a few articles of her own in the bill. Among them are flowers such as the right to process the data of all participants of the congress by the police until 90 days after the end of the event - of course without the knowledge and consent of these people, because it is a PiS project. The police will be able to check every congressional participant and any person who cooperates in organizing this event. And finally cr? me de la cr?me. Within 5 days, all spontaneous assemblies will be banned in Toruń. Just so we're clear, we're not talking about the Pope's visit, we're not talking about Joe Biden's visit, we're not even talking about the Rolling Stones concert. This congress is just a party, just like any mass event. Why does she need separate recipes? Why do you need these regulations? First of all (The Bell), why limit the freedom of Poles and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u304	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Copernican Academy is several dozen or several hundred new jobs. It is an institution gifted with land and buildings, gifted with tens of millions of zlotys from pockets of hard-working Poles. And what's that for? The catalogue of the Act indicates the income of the academy, which consists, among others. an entity grant to finance the current activity. There's expenses, too. In particular, expenses such as travel and accommodation reimbursements have been included. We probably know who these travel and accommodation refunds are for. The Main Council of Science and Higher Education has expressed its negative opinion twice about this project, but for just two Members representing the PIS such opinions are suitable for throwing into the basket. Why would the General Council of Science and Higher Education talk about a law? I ask the question: To whom and why should this creation serve? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence. I was Deputy Marshal of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, I was in Toruń. You really don't have to lock Torun for five days. There are friendly, sympathetic and smiling people out there. Even when the Pope arrived, this city was closed an hour before, not for five days, as in the case of the arrival of the Minister of Education and, I don't know, maybe the Prime Minister. But if you want to close Toruń for five days, close it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u306	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing the Copernican Academy. In view of the country's catastrophic debt, which, contrary to the government's optimistic assurances, is growing from month to month and burying the dreams of our children with a decent life, do we not have more urgent spending than building an institution that duplicates the activities of existing institutions? You want to allocate funds to its activities that could be spent on health care, education and, above all, on improving the level of security of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u308	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u309	I ask you, best of all, what is the quality of this project is evidenced by the fact that there is one Member of the PiS and one representative of the Ministry. There's no one from the president who's supposed to be the author. I would first like to ask a formal question: Who should I ask? I'd like to ask you about a bill that's supposed to be written by the President, and there's no one from the President. Therefore, I understand that no one wants to be the parent of this project. [[I'm the closest.]] It's concrete, though. There's one thing I can't find out from the beginning. How do you expect colleagues to be taken into Copenhagen school? There will be five colleagues from five cities: Torunia, Olsztyna... [[From Lublin.]] ... Warsaw, Lublin and Krakow. Are they supposed to be pulled out of any other universities that are already functioning? We accept the project, and we cannot get an answer to a simple question. But we learn that all scientific communities speak very unambiguously: a unit is created for its own, the Copernican Academy, from which only death (the Bell), conviction or 80 years of age, and which gives a higher salary than the Polish Academy of Sciences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u310	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am amazed to open my eyes and look at a project that was supposed to be a revolutionary project, a project that was supposed to bring glory and glory to Poland. There is no Minister Małgorzata Paprocka, who explained during the committee meeting that this institution is to cooperate with the largest scientific centres in Poland. And I have a question about who will cooperate with a university whose scientists are elected politicians, and the rank of the university is determined by an administrative decision. After all, these are the times of the Polish People's Republic, these are times when there was no free science, only power wanted to rule over science. After all, we as Poland ridicule ourselves by building such a university and yet telling people that scientists from all over the world will cooperate with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an institution for your own to give yours big money. It's a shame we're messing with this institution's name Santa Copernicus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u312	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! And the president's representative arrived, late for the debate for half an hour. It's a specific respect for the High House. Why don't we repeat the questions? We would like to know if the President is aware of what kind of anti-constitutional state you are presenting on his behalf. Is the President aware that all academic, scientific, including trade unions are against this project? Is the President aware that the project you are proposing has absolutely vague funding and excludes civil liberties because you want to have a party in Toruń next year? We repeat that the project does not create a scientific community, the project does not strengthen Polish science. I would like to ask you one more question, using the happy presence of the Minister. Are you aware that Copernican Awards already exist? You create them as something big, wonderful, and they have already existed in Poland for years. Really, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to do something, do it decently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u315	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why do we need science and scientists if we don't listen to them anyway? Science requires silence, stability and a long-term perspective, not unthinkable ideas, which they create from day to day, e.g. the new Copernican Academy, especially if the whole academic community is against it. If all the people, politician, tell you you're drunk, then lie down and wonder if they're wrong. Why do we need a political creation to weaken the position of the Polish Academy of Sciences? Why does this whole project have a vague way of financing? Why do PiS politicians need a propaganda event in the form of the Copernican Congress? Don't you have enough academy to honor? Does Copernican Academy serve only so that your people can receive titles, honors, and spend uncontrollably money out of grants? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sometimes it's worth listening to scientists, especially if they're involved. The less politics in science, the better.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u316	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The whole scientific community is against this project, but PiS knows better. So what's all this really about? Jobs, as usual. Vislana, CPK, and guarding the meadow for tens of thousands, and now another stool for their own within the unnecessary, duplication of existing structures, violating the principle of independence and autonomy of the Copernicus Academy. You could write about this great work: about the turnover of the PiS spheres, because when it comes to bonuses for your own people, you are very charming. Too bad you've been doing worse in the sky lately. I would like to ask two questions: How many, and please give the public an exact number of objections to this project have been reported by the Sejm Analysis Office? And then there's the second line. Please tell me whether President Glapiński will receive the Copernican Award for his impressive achievements in terms of devaluation of Polish money or confusion of record inflation with deflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. You still don't have a Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is the result of the helplessness of those who are unable to bear the independence of Polish science. Under the heading of promotion of native science attempts to establish a politicized institution which duplicates the competences of existing institutions, especially the Polish Academy of Sciences, but also universities or the National Science Centre, in which the selection of members will take place in a completely non-transparent manner, not to mention financing this strange creation, which will take place at the expense of other scientific units. I have a proposition for you. If the head of state wants to really serve our native science, it is worth creating a special fund for the most talented young people within the huge budget of the firm. And that would be wise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Copernican Academy - presidential project, President of the Republic of Poland. The President, who has sworn to the constitution, is presenting us with a draft which is incompatible with the constitution, a project which violates and restricts civil rights, which is opposed by all scientific communities, because this law is a political monument to the megalomania of the PiS and the President, who, in particular, plunders from other universities and departments, from Lublin - the Faculty of Legal Sciences, from the Polish Academy of Sciences - finance, competences and achievements. A while ago, Mr PiS, justifying the bill, said - it was really hard for me to hear - that, ladies and gentlemen, there is an obstruction of the scientific community that is negative about this project. And already the top of the summits was how he said that he was ashamed (Dawn) and ashamed to the Polish people that Polish universities stand so low. Mr President, if you can hear me, it is a shame for this House that you are ashamed of Polish science. Hands off the Polish universities. Hands off the UMCS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u322	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In these times, very uncertain, when there is war next door and there are further increases - today, ladies and gentlemen, we have no gas, so the gas prices will probably go up - the next money is ripped out of society. Poor is this Copernicus, which is an excuse to do so. This project has a chance, sir, you say. This is not the time for untested investments. This is our public money. It's a project that denies common sense. This is another institution set up by PiS politicians, politicized, with unknown funding, without a specific purpose. It is better to allocate these resources, if any, to existing universities for research. Isn't that another idea of the PiS as a reward for its fanatics? No, no, no, not again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u324	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u325	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Scientists, politicians, as well as experts from the Sejm Analysis Office accuse the Presidential project, among others. duplication of structures. Of course, they note that the organisation and activities of the Copernicus Academy refer to the functioning of already existing scientific institutions, such as the Polish Academy of Skills and the Polish Academy of Sciences. Even maliciously, I suppose. BAS shows an example of the Copernican Award, which is already in operation, because it has been awarded by the Polish Academy of Science Awards since 1873. Santa Copernicus. So the basic question is, why do you need this university if everything is the same, theoretically, as in these already existing universities? Are you really going back to the 1950s and trying to subdue science? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, we need to find out why you're building this university. Because I believe, I assume a priori that the target is good. But if the target is good, what is it? There were two committees, there were two readings, we asked this question, we asked it constantly, and we didn't get an answer. Because as for the fact that there's going to be a higher prestige, we agree. Yes, it is about Polish universities, it would certainly be good for the prestige of Polish science to be higher. But how do you want to achieve that? Let's think about it. All tasks to perform the academy are carried out by universities, and that's good. Our scientists are to be from these universities, so nothing will change. Scientists from the world already cooperate with Polish universities. Let's add further: all universities, ranging from the Jagiellonian University to my university, at the Warsaw University, were created not only for years, but for centuries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what's the specifics of this university? And don't be offended that universal voices are such that it's not for science that the goal is different. And one more question. Please answer in writing. Your Marshal, this question is very important, it concerns financing. Please respond in writing. Wouldn't the state, when you set up this university, make the existing universities poor by taking the faculty away? Will the money stay? This money is needed for universities, because otherwise, not because universities will want it so, the state will lower the quality of existing universities because you will take their money, so there will be no research in these existing universities, and in this created university will not be...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u328	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u329	...because she's just gonna be forming for years... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u330	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u331	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! World University Ranking: University of Warsaw - position 321, this is our best university we have in Poland. Jagiellonian University - position 326 in the world. Warsaw University of Technology - item 511. These are the successes of our science. This is what this House should be doing if she wanted to take the subject seriously at all. Unfortunately, he doesn't. This Copenhagen congress we've already mentioned here is going to be like the European Games you're organizing. Nobody knows what it is and what it's for. There's going to be 140 million for you and yours, and here's 20 million only, so modestly, but it's a start. [[Voice from the hall: But gold.]] We know very well that this Copernican Academy of yours is to be a competition for the Polish Academy of Sciences. You should have followed the punch and called it as in the case of the Polish Academy of Sciences - shortcut of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Pisowska Academy of Sciences. Ladies and gentlemen! Copernicus is turning in the grave (the bell) and so far it has been quietly spinning around the sun. [[Voice from the room: Very nice, so thoughtful.]] This should be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is, quoting the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, so ridiculous and so horrible at the same time that it seems even a little serious to occupy the High House, Members and Members with these ideas which are ignorant, which are infantile and which contradict the President's seriousness. I'm really surprised that the president doesn't have any advisors who would advise him against firming this project, which is really Minister Czarnek's project, and is to be another monument to his narcissistic ideas about science, about himself. ¿De revolutionibus orbium coelstium ¿ - revolutionibus ¿ was a turnover. Here we come back, quoting the opinion of scientists (the bell), because this occurs, until 1951, and to the creation of the then Polish Academy of Sciences, which was supposed to be an academy only by name, and in fact an institution under the control of the party and government. [[We'll be back in 2022.]] Only it ended in 1956, we started leaving this model, in 1989 the autonomy of the university was established, which today is simply to be trampled on by this ridiculous and horrible idea. I appeal to everyone in this House to simply reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we want to protect you in the public interest, not politically, from extremely serious embarrassment. Indeed, the political interest would indicate that this is such a compromise of the President, the applicant, the Law and Justice, that we could actually say: let's play this and we will have great topics for political attack and reflection. Questions. Did the President's Office consult on the subject of creating e.g. another medical department or exchange in Olsztyn with someone specialized, e.g. With the president of the medical council, Professor Czauderna? You have such a good professional. Do you know the real number of doctors in Poland? Did you ask that question to the Minister of Health? Because they keep saying that we have a lot less than in Europe. And that's the justification, one of the reasons for this project. Well, the answer to the interpellation that I received from the Minister of Health in writing (Dzwonek) is that we have in Poland an index of 4,72 per thousand. residents. This is much more than the European average - 3.9. And this is, of course, almost twice as much as what is being reported because of statistical forms errors. So the premise is completely wrong, and the reason for the small number of doctors is noticeable by society. This is the abandonment of real good solutions, new solutions of the health system in Poland over the last years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u336	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u337	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As usual, the assumptions were good, but they didn't work. Isn't it better to transfer this PLN 140 million to our universities, to Polish science, not to place them in newly created jobs and new institutions? I am an envoy from Bydgoszcz, but I will defend Torun, whom I have been involved with for many years. I am a graduate of UMK, Nicolaus Copernicus University and I will tell you one thing: if you want to lock up in Toruń, I have one place where you can shut up quietly, this is the university Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, a piece behind Torun. I'm sure you'll be very free there, because you're often there. And to my colleagues from PiS and the authors of this bill, I recommend that they remember that Mikołaj Kopernik was not only an astronomer, a prominent astronomer, but he was also a lawyer and author of many essays devoted to economics and, above all, a treaty on coin. This one I would particularly advise you to read. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u338	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask where was the president, where was the government, when it was really necessary to support innovative projects - for example the project of Poznań students who designed a rocket that could successfully explore space, and the Ministry refused to finance their trip to the United States for a competition organised by NASA. Where were you then? Now, with a generous hand, you want to support science without specifying specific principles, and yet in Poland concrete projects are being created that require support and grants. Why aren't such projects supported, even though you already have such a real opportunity? Why do young scientists have to eat online dropouts? Are we the drop-off state? Drops for treatment, dropouts for maintenance of cultural institutions whose government has withdrawn funding, now dropouts for research projects. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u340	Minister, you may then speak, but please do not accuse the Member of lying. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have basically one very simple question, but the basic question is, why do you have such a mania of greatness? You are passionate about creating new institutions, building them with full momentum, giving them pathetic names. In fact, the only thing missing for your style is the prefix at the Copernican Academy: national. The saddest thing is that it is absolutely no one needs it: neither the local community nor the scientific community that it is protesting nor the students. [[The voice from the room: The black man needs it.]] You need this only for the treatment of your complexes, to satisfy this mania of greatness while creating some profitable positions for your own. [[And for the money.]] Your love for Polish science actually ends when you come up with this name. You have prepared a complete bubble in which even the budget is not tight, the institutions are duplicated (the bell), and more space in this law is devoted to police protection and public bans during scientific conferences. And you know what? You would do much more for Polish science if you finally learned anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u342	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS wants to take over everything, but because it cannot take over the Polish Academy of Sciences, following the example of the Constitutional Court or companies of the Treasury, it decided to create its own, private and actually party academy. In the absence of a sufficient number of trusted professors, and even doctors who are habilitated by them, there are also to be independent academics, or doctors. But this is too restrictive - allow masters, bachelors, priests and vicars. After all, Copernicus was a lower Catholic priest. Since the Copernican Academy is to act on the principle: Dad, they praise us, you praise me, and I am to you, and to perform mostly the distribution role, its members may be measured as long as they are faithful. The Academy will cost us, Poles, 25 million PLN per year, including the secretary's fee (The Bell) - 200,000 PLN. PLN per year and 100 academy members of 80,000 each. PLN per year. That's some good work. As a professor, the former Rector and Dean, I'm outraged by the idea of creating a political, pseudo-scientific creation that will be an ATM for your buddies, PiS buddies. Instead of throwing money in the mud, give more to the Polish Academy of Sciences. Finally, can you come to your senses and vote against this hopeless and harmful project? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No, they can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u344	Thank you very much, Madam President. That was the last question. Please, now the Secretary of State of President Małgorzata Paprocka's Office to address the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u345	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to apologize very much to the marshal and the High House for being late. It was due to other responsibilities - I was just at an external meeting, and the original information indicated that I would consider the point at hours. 17. Once again, I apologize to the High House for this fact. The draft law on the Copernican Academy is undoubtedly necessary for Polish science. It is a draft law developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science. [[Yeah, everybody can see that Blackie's enjoying it.]] When the President presented it, this cooperation was emphasized and expressed his gratitude for it. The aim of the law is to increase the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science in the world. The President, proposing the creation of a new scientific institution, the Copernicus Academy, points to the need to step up international cooperation as a cornerstone of its activities. This will be the main objective of the academy, i.e. the creation of a new field for cooperation between Polish and foreign scientists in the fields indicated in the draft law in a historical way connected with the person Mikołaj Kopernik. The additional purpose of the bill is also to commemorate the 550th anniversary of the birth of Nicolaus Copernicus next year. The Copernican National Programme, which the Academy will implement, is needed by Polish science, Polish scientists grants, scientific programs, Copenhagen scholarships and Copenhagen prizes. Yes, we were aware that there was a reward for them. Nicholas Copernicus, but the prize proposed in the project in five fields, in the modes defined in the project, is indeed the highest prize to be awarded in Polish science. [[We already know who gets it first.]] The project, as was underlined at the first reading and yesterday, at the committee meeting, also assumes the establishment of the Main School. Many questions have been raised by your fellow Members on the issue of financing. The draft law establishes and sets out the financing rules of the Copernicus Academy, and referring to the issue of financing existing other universities or scientific institutions, it should be pointed out that this is always laid down in the budget law. [[Where'd they come from?]] In no way is the purpose of this law to deprive other scientific institutions of funds. Thank you kindly. [[I'll ask you to answer my question in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u346	I just wanted to say that the quality of the prize is not only money, but also objectivity and democratic award of this award - authority. Thank you very much. Since during the second reading... Excuse me, Minister. Minister of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. I'm so sorry, Minister. [[Oh, maybe the Minister will say something.]] [[Where'd they come from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u347	That's okay, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank the President and the President's Office for this necessary and necessary bill. [[Necessary.]] The main problem in Poland is that even parliamentarians unfortunately cannot read with understanding. I am very sorry about this, because if you could even reach the normative content, I even ignore the justification of this law, which is really very extensive, you would understand one fundamental issue: the Copernicus Academy assumes the internationalization of Polish education and science. [[On the basis of an administrative decision.]] I won't argue with you from the podium. The banging of the former minister really only hurts. I just want to highlight one thing that you don't notice at all. [[You have to know the rules.]] There has already been a first reading at the previous session of the Sejm, yesterday the Sejm committee was working, and you have not made any constructive proposals... [[We introduced: throw it away.]] [[Request for rejection at first reading.]] ...even a constructive proposal to commemorate one of the most outstanding, if not the most outstanding Polish scholar - Mikołaj Kopernik. Even from this speaker, the parliamentarians of your groups questioned the authority... [[I made the offer.]] ... Nicolaus Copernicus and it is truly disgraceful that in this House a prominent Polish scholar is being questioned. [[Voice from the hall: But what do you say?]] The lie was what one of the messengers just said, that... [[Voice from the hall: But what nonsense do you say?]] ...the ministry did not finance the project of young students from Poznań in the competition organized in the United States. That's a lie. You know perfectly well and cynically manipulate this lie. [[Very much so.]] The project of the International Copernican Academy assumes one fundamental thing: that 50% of the personal composition of this academy is scientists from other countries. As if you couldn't read it, understand it. 50% ,half. [[But who's gonna come to...]] [[A voice from the hall, which ye shall call.]] We are leaving matters related to the organisation of the academy itself to the academic community. You have... [[Where'd they come from?]] Marshal, I really can't talk like this. This is very far from the academic debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u348	But I'm asking you to calm down. [[Because you're not at the academy, a big discovery. You're in the Seym.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: That's right, yeah. Ladies try to speak on academic topics, but unfortunately, customs are more from the bazaar than from the academy. I'm asking both sides for peace. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Shuffling and disturbing really doesn't help. [[But you know, at least we know what we're talking about, and you're talking nonsense.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I inform you that the state of work on the bill is acceptable. We'll support him. Thank you very much again to the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland and to the President for this initiative, which... [[Where'd they come from?]] ...really responds to the challenges of contemporary Polish science. [[Voice from the Chamber: Please respond to Mrs Lubnauer.]] [[To a very specific question.]] I really hope for great success and that next year too during... [[The cost of what college are these colleges?]] Listen up a little bit. It's about the ladies. [[Voice from the room: I think we wanted to know the answer to our questions.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u349	Excuse me, sir. I ask all of you to allow the Minister to speak. Good morning, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you very much. I'm almost done, Marshal. Once again, for the third time, I will thank the president and the law firm. I think that this is really very necessary Polish science project... [[Voice from the room: which no one wants.]] ...who will also pursue our ambitions. [[Voice from the room: Yours is.]] [[Your ambitions do.]] Unfortunately, in many of your speeches there was still such a belief: Why should there be an airport in Warsaw when it is in Berlin? Why the university in Łódź when it's in Warsaw? [[Voice from the hall: You closed it in Warsaw.]] This is the level of your ambition. What's the point of anything in Poland? What's the point of prominent foreign scientists... [[Why do your own thing if you can steal it?]] ...to come to Poland and cooperate with Polish scientists, since they are in excellent centres abroad, outside the Polish state? Unfortunately, this is your level of ambition. [[Voice from the hall: In Warsaw only until noon. 17.]] Thank you very much. Well, at least we have CPK. [[Applause]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal!]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Copernican Academy is to be an additional forum for cooperation between scientists from Poland and abroad mainly in the fields of mathematics, physics and law, which is to be translated among others. for greater recognition of the achievements of Polish science in the world. Meanwhile, the Polish Academy of Sciences is a scientific institution implementing activities aimed at the development, promotion, integration and dissemination of science and contributing to the development of education and enrichment of national culture. The competence of the new academy coincides with the competence of the Polish Academy. Creating a new entity in no way will significantly improve the integrity and competitiveness of the Polish scientific community. The funds allocated to the construction of a new scientific cooperation forum would certainly be better used if they were allocated to grants, scholarships or prizes for researchers. This would be 100% complete. the assumptions of this project. It is about cooperation, recognition, achievements of Polish science in the world. I ask you to answer the question: What unique competences will Copernican Academy have, which is not available to you? Will the academy have the resources to create programs and scholarships for scientists?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the presidential draft law on the Copernican Academy. PiS is obsessed with controlling all institutions in the country. Because he cannot take over the Polish Academy of Sciences, like the Constitutional Court or the State Treasury companies, he wants to create his own party academy. In the absence of a sufficient number of trusted professors, and even doctors who are habilitated by them, there are also to be independent scientists, i.e. doctors - as long as they are relatives or acquaintances of ducks, pardon, rabbit. It's too restrictive. Allow Masters, Bachelors, Pastors and Vicars to join. After all, Copernicus was a lower Catholic priest. Since the Copernican Academy is supposed to work on the principle: Dad praises us, you praise me, and I am primarily responsible for the distribution of you, its members may be measured, as long as they are faithful. For grants, awards and scholarships, it is enough to receive phone calls from the Presidential Palace and from Nowogrodzka. For example, politicians will appoint candidates for the half-millionth Copernican Prize: President, Prime Minister, Minister. The pseudo-scientific distribution of our money is to take place outside democratic control - a report on the activities of the Copernicus Academy will be submitted to the Prime Minister and Minister of Education, not to the Sejm. And it's not small money. The establishment and maintenance of the Academy is expected to cost PLN 15 million, functioning - 25 million a year, including the remuneration of the secretary of the Academy - 200,000. PLN per year and 100 members of the academy - 80,000 each. PLN per year. Nice gigs. Against the idea of establishing the Copernicus Academy protested: the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Polish Academy of Sciences and the General Council of Science and Higher Education. As a professor, the former Rector and Dean, I'm outraged by the idea of creating a political, pseudo-scientific creation that will be an ATM for your buddies. Instead of throwing money in the mud, give more to the Polish Academy of Sciences. The Parliamentary Circle of PPS requests that the project be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u352	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments and rejection requests were submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 2134 and 2194). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because we already have another point, perhaps not everyone is interested. I would therefore ask that the discussion be moved to other areas and that the report be presented to the Member. [[Thank you for reminding us, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws, print No. 2134. The Marshal of the Sejm according to the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 1 April 2022, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. After considering this draft law at the meeting yesterday, i.e. On 26 April 2022, the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, I would like to stress that amendments to the draft law submitted were tabled, which were rejected at the committee meeting, but the representatives submitting these amendments proposed that, in accordance with the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 These amendments were minority proposals. So, High Izbo, seven minority proposals have been made. They were reported here by representatives of opposition formations: Mr Krzakala, Mr Kaminski and Mr Kowal. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Radosław Fogel, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. There isn't? [[There isn't, Marshal.]] We are therefore taking advantage of this absence so that Mr Marek Krzakła can take the floor and present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u355	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I hope the Minister gets to us, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u356	He's on his way. That's the information we have.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u357	Good. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act, print No. 2134. This project is another amendment of the law adopted in January Ub. (a) subsequently amended as a result of numerous shortcomings in May, before the Act entered into force. Before proceeding with this amendment, we hoped that it would remove all the errors and doubts previously made legal and constitutional, which, instead of strengthening the foreign service, led to its dismantling and weakening and, worst of all, to its maximum politicisation. After all, we all want the diplomatic service to be first and foremost professional, to act effectively and effectively and to contribute to our security, and the government's foreign policy strengthens us in the international arena. It is a pity that another opportunity for this amendment has not been taken advantage of. The proposal provides for the possibility of verifying professional diplomats educated outside the EU and NATO countries. They would be checked for threats to state security. The intention in principle is very right, especially in the context of the war in Ukraine, but the approach to the problem is unfortunately amateur and raises a lot of doubts. Two questions arise. If you've proven an agent's activity to anyone, why isn't that person facing the DA immediately? No amendment of the law is needed for this. And then there's the second line. What has the Homeland Security Agency been doing so far, and every diplomat and foreign service worker has been screened in a special way? What is the effectiveness of your services? You're questioning the operation of your services. This is bad for your governments, and in the context of the situation in the East, it is disturbing and frightening. Unfortunately, you only rely on presumptions and insinuations. 'Cause if you had any, even if you had the slightest evidence of agential activity, that person wouldn't have worked in diplomatic service in a long time. If I wanted to be angry, I'd have to ask you about the status of WWolfgang, Ambassador Andrzej Przyłębski, but I won't. The amendments introduced are also intended to result in the termination of the professional diplomat's employment relationship if he refuses to leave the institution twice. Minister! Do you really want to be diplomats of mediocre, passive, but faithful people, to the pain of obedient party lines, as in the times of the Polish People's Republic? What's that supposed to do? Tell the public the truth and admit that you are cleaning up the ministry because you want to hire your party colleagues, regardless of the fact that without education and experience, it is important that you have party cards, and because you are incompetent, you have prepared another amendment to throw out the 27 uncomfortable people you spoke of during the committee meeting. And you don't mind the fact that you have people like Kryza and Piotrowicz in your ranks who convict the opponents during the martial law. Please tell me: Why do you extend the IPN competences relating to all ministries and their employees in this law so much? Why don't you amend the IPN bill separately? And another question that comes up. If you're losing your employment relationship to people over the age of 65 by breaking all EU directives and discrimination against an employee by age, why don't you start with yourself and send your president to a well-deserved pension? It would really benefit our society and our security. If you want to be effective in diplomatic and foreign service, apologize first to European partners for their ties with Orbán, Salvini or Le Pen, and then create a law on foreign service that will restore professionalism, unbridledness and efficiency. Then you will gain respect and maybe in Europe somebody will listen to you. It's a shame the ruling party rejected it. all the opposition amendments that would protect diplomats and foreign servants in the war zone from your ideas. To sum up, this amendment to the Act will neither improve nor improve anything. On the contrary - it is a further destruction of foreign service, which will soon hiccup you, and it will take months, perhaps years to clean up this mess. As a club, we are in favour of rejecting this law in its entirety and we will vote against it. Finally, in response to the Minister's suggestions regarding the willingness to support our amendments under certain conditions, we have prepared some amendments which I wanted to make now, at second reading. If our amendments are accepted, the minority proposals will then become unobtrusive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. I accept the amendments. I ask Mr Radosław Fogel, who has come to the gym and, as I understand it, is prepared to present the position of his club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u359	Yes, sir. Thank you, Marshal, and I apologize for your absence. I was at an undercover hearing of the defense committee, and the information about the acceleration just got to me. However, on behalf of Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act. This subject is returning to the Parliamentary Chamber. What is the reason why we're working on this amendment, this amendment of the bill? We have undertaken a fundamental reform of the foreign service several months ago and today's work is a result and a continuation of it. In the course of the application of the law, it turned out that certain things need to be clarified, such as the consequences of not making the declarations laid down in the Act within the deadline. It turned out that the Foreign Minister had to have more effective tools to manage foreign service members in order to be able to fill the premises effectively. Hence the changes concerning the consequences of a foreign member's refusal to enter the service. Finally, new security challenges have emerged in relation to the war that is taking place abroad, which places many issues in a new light. Thus, for example, this additional requirement for the head of the Internal Security Agency to give an opinion on the possibilities for further work of people who have been educated in universities such as: MGIMO. It is about ensuring security to the highest extent in terms of Polish foreign service. My previous speaker mentioned this, it will certainly be part of the debate. There have been some amendments while working on the committee. Minister Wawrzyk, a representative of the Ministry, said that some of them were going in the direction that the government considered acceptable, provided that these amendments were further worked and properly formulated, including in legislative terms. I hope that the proposed amendments will have this value. To conclude, I would like to say that on behalf of the Law and Justice, I declare my support for this bill and I hope that the High Sejm will agree to this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u361	Thank you very much, Marshal. I see Radosław Fogiel is leaving. I'm not surprised. [[I'm going back to the committee meeting, sir.]] And I'm not surprised that he didn't take full advantage of the project's time, because it's a really bad project, and he's not a limited man, and he understands it very well, but he defended it as a party official. There's no one from the ministry, and I'm not surprised either. At the meeting of the committee, the Ministry showed its deep incompetence and lack of knowledge, so it was decided to avoid the same in the Seym. There is a war in Ukraine and it is a great challenge for Polish diplomacy. We must organise aid for Ukraine, we must organise aid for refugees, we must ensure the unity of the West when it comes to sanctions imposed on Russia. In the meantime, the Ministry, instead of dealing with it, deals with something else entirely, brings to Parliament, to the Sejm a draft law, which I call humiliation law. The point is to humiliate the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in different ways. One of these ways is that those who have obtained a degree in higher education outside NATO and outside the European Union must ask the Minister for a check by the ABW and only after verification will they obtain permission to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This applies to people who have often served Poland well for more than 30 years, there was no doubt about them, for more, which often had access to documents with a classified clause or strictly secret, and in order to obtain such a safety certificate, you need to be checked by the ABW. The Minister at the committee meeting was unable to say how many people are affected, so perhaps those who had safety certificates will now be re-examined. Interestingly, it is not known according to which procedure these persons will be checked, because the ABW Act does not define a procedure for checking an official who has obtained a diploma outside the European Union and NATO. It's gonna be a big mystery and a challenge to the Homeland Security if this bill passes. The humiliation package is also denied the title of attaché embassy, which is very strange because this degree is functioning, in many countries there are military attaché. In the explanatory memorandum it was stated that the attaché at the embassy is a very communist custom, but the idea is to deprive people of something that is pleasantly associated, which is recognizable. Being attached to the embassy has a symbolic value. No, the point is to deprive the MFA employees of this title and that the attaché is only the third secretary. The humiliation package also includes the issue of dismissals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of persons who do not decide to accept twice the designated diplomatic post, the designated place of work. We know how easy it is to manipulate such indications. The point is that you can make such proposals that a worker can't actually accept not because he's not interested. or that these are unattractive places, just because for example. He'll recognize his incompetence. Maybe it's just outside of his circle of interests, it doesn't correspond to his experience. A person like that can be easily fired from work. Bottom line, I'm saying this is a bill that serves to brand workers. The point is that they have a feeling that their leadership can be very, very much crawling through them, it can stigmatize them, it can make them feel uncomfortable. This is a very bad way to manage staff, a very bad way to manage diplomacy. Instead of professional, proud service, instead of proud diplomats - oh, there are representatives of the Ministry - we will have intimidated diplomacy. Doing so at this point is absurd and does not serve Polish interests, so the Left will vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u363	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are no government representatives, but maybe that's better, because the minister already heard from us at the committee meeting yesterday. It is another destructive act, which follows the law on foreign service, which we have already amended once. The original law was introduced to the session of the Sejm in order to eliminate, exclude from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs one employee, i.e. the Director-General, and it succeeded. At the same time, it was possible to provide 100 posts for people who are not diplomats, but who are faithful servants of Law and Justice. And that's also a beautiful result. Congratulations to the government. The present law, which we are talking about, concerns in fact only 29 people, because it was 42 minus 13. It would concern 42, but 13 of them are either retired or in protective periods, so nothing can be done about them. It only applies to people who have studied at MGIMO. These people are mostly in their 60s, because that's the practice. The Minister has not been able to tell what the functions are. MGIMO was, however, an elite university run by the KGB and run by the FSB, but an elite Soviet university and then a Russian one. However, her graduates were considered professional, even if they had other additional functions, people. Therefore, if they have been sufficiently skilled in diplomacy and have already worked in this diplomacy for about 30 years, they should have quite high functions. The Minister wasn't able to say anything about that. Well, if they occupied high functions, they were verified in the normal process of accessing classified information by the ABW. This bill suggests that now all these people will have to be re-verified by the head of the Internal Security Agency within 30 days to verify whether they are fit, whether or not they are suspects and have to be removed from the service. But the Minister, referring to the ABW Act and the Act on Access to Secret Information, was unable to indicate any paragraph, no article of these laws, which would indicate how the head of the Internal Security Agency is supposed to check within 30 days whether someone is a potential agent or not (Applause), after the verification procedure for access to classified information has been followed, which lasts for months and at higher levels of access. It's taking a long time. It is precisely for top-secret information that the Ministry usually does not have access to, Mr, only secret information in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because with top-secret information it is still necessary to interrogate bystanders who guarantee, etc., etc., but that is not the case anymore. This is a legal fiction, because here there is no possibility of additional verification within 30 days by the head of the ABW. The absence of any evaluation criteria was criticised by the Sejm Analysis Office and by the legislators present at the meeting of the committee. They said it couldn't be done so that there's no legal basis, that it's all a sick idea. They didn't say that. I'm saying it's the minister's sick invention. And the minister, who was a pretty witty person, thought that the word "attaché" which, of course, comes from the Bolshevik language, because it is a purely Russian word that the French took from their love for the Russians... [[In 1815.]] Yes. It's a Bolshevik title. As this is a continuation of communist tradition, it is necessary to ask for it - I have pointed out - that mean, communist states such as the United States, Canada, France and others deprive their military attachés, who are very high diplomatic representatives of these countries, such titles. Let's make them third-party secretaries and decommunise NATO states, and that's how it's supposed to be. It is a rubble (the bell), it is a law that is completely pointless. It really destroys people. The Polish Coalition Club will certainly vote against it, and certainly the government will report another amendment in a few months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will now present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Again we are debating the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. Again, because last year it was introduced into pain by the PiS government, it was updated and now we're updating it again, but not because we didn't see it coming, because that's all we're talking about, that's exactly what we were talking about a year ago. If anyone checks the record of last year's discussion, we've been talking about it. We're updating it because PiS wants to do propaganda and wants to show that he's fighting Russian influence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the opposition is supposed to oppose it. Thus Minister Wawrzyk, who is not there, may one day come, wrote two weeks ago that because of opposition Members' opposition, the committee will not deal with the draft law on the removal from the service of foreign graduates of MGIMO and other communist universities. I don't even want to comment on it. They're just doing propaganda. At a time when the Confederation tabled an amendment so that the Polish ambassador could have only Polish citizenship, which would be in the interest of the Polish state, so that the permanent representative of Poland could have only Polish citizenship, because everyone knows that two masters cannot be served, then who opposed at this moment? Law and Justice and Solidarna Polska. They voted against. If it weren't for their opposition, it would have gone away. But it is known that the Law and Justice apply a different measure to the people it chooses, and it is known that there are persons who have been elected to this position and who have just dual citizenship. Unfortunately, the draft law in its original version corrupted diplomacy in Poland. Ambassadors or permanent representatives didn't have to meet any conditions, didn't have to graduate, didn't have to speak languages, never had to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, didn't have to have any experience. Unfortunately, during this last year, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have evaluated the candidacy of many - many unfortunately - Polish representatives who did not meet any conditions and said things that were not right to say. One after 14 days of his stay in the facility, the PiS government removed itself, because after 14 days he found himself unfit. So we see the PiS spoiling. This amendment doesn't serve any good. The humorous accents were because the Legislative Bureau showed that there were no grounds at all, as in the case of the ABW opinion, and it is not known what to lean on, but the government goes on to do so. The summit was to change the degree of attaché to grade III of the secretary. I understand a lot of things, but by changing the name, we can't fix our diplomacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u366	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the year 2022 and the war which Russia has declared is ongoing. For the last thirty years of free Poland, we felt that freedom was not given once and for all, and that those who gained it, by breaking out of the Soviet Union, such as Ukrainians or Belarusians or Georgians or Moldovans, would probably have to defend it. And that's what's happening today. The great Polish foreign ministers, Prof. Skubiszewski, Prof. Bartoszewski, Radek Sikorski, but also recently Minister Schetyn, knew about it and built it, and then maintained and developed ethos of services, ethos of Polish services. Because service is not just a job, you go to diplomacy to serve Poland, because it is the most important service in the time of peace when on the first diplomatic line you fight for Polish interests. The piss ruined it. PiS ruined it and started ruining it right after the takeover of power in 2015. The culmination of this terrible act of last year, which destroyed the service - the service. I'm looking at empty benches that don't even have a foreign minister. This is a testimony to how the Ministry treats this bill and its work in general. Because this is no longer a service, because they no longer serve, do not serve Poland. Because service is ethos, it's taking care of higher values and putting these values above each other. These are also procedures, which are particularly important in diplomacy, because this is a service that is compared with another. Today, this service is no longer a service; it is simply an institution, not a state institution, but a stubborn one. It is financed by the state budget, but the ambassadors do not become the result of a career in this building, to which many people were going with great hope of working for Poland, the ambassadors are left because they can be liked or it is a condition actually to please Nowogrodzka. This is a party institution that really boils down to a travel agency and doing all kinds of business, this is an institution where you can make a career when you're 30 years old, and in the second job you become an ambassador immediately, just like the Ambassador of the Republic of Budapest. Now there's another bill that's supposed to improve this service, but what's it all about? It's all about making it easier for experienced diplomats to throw out (the bell). Ladies and gentlemen, today is a war in the East and we have no diplomacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u368	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? For now, 14 people are registered. If there are no volunteers, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. You will be the first to ask Mr Szczerba. [[Absent.]] There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u369	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no government, there is no representative of the Foreign Minister, but there is no one in the Chamber from Law and Justice. This is unbelievable. We are discussing one of the most important issues in terms of representing the vital interests of the State, and there is not a single Member of the Law and Justice in the Chamber. This empty hall, these empty government benches, empty parliamentary benches on the side of the PiS Members are silent proof of what we all know: that Polish diplomacy does not exist. Polish diplomacy has been broken in the last 6 years of crazy changes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need here to ask specific questions addressed to those who are not, but it is worth asking one key question in the House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Law and Justice, how long will you continue to destroy the good name of Poland, for which diplomacy has worked for many decades? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk is absent. Mrs Wanda Nowicka is absent. Mr Marek Krzakła is present. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Absent Minister! I have three questions about specific numbers. How many people have refused to work in the institutions designated by the Minister since last year, which is since the amendment of the Foreign Service Act came into force? According to the previous solution, the diplomat was financially punished. How many diplomats have such a solution? Today, twice the refusal results in a termination of the employment relationship. Second question. How many people aged 65 have applied for an extension of their employment relationship and how many are in the pre-retirement protection period? And one last question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently employs about 3,500 people. The Minister mentioned at the committee meeting that the law concerns 27 or 29 workers, as Mr Bartoszewski said, who graduated from universities in Moscow. Tell me what years they studied there. In what governments were they sent there? How many of them had access to classified information? How many people haven't been verified? How many of them do the Homeland Security have suspicions of an agent's activity? Because I assume the Ministry has been notified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me remind you that the previous general director, Mr. Ambassador Paperz, has often said publicly that the mere completion of a university in a non-EU country does not give rise to suspicion of cooperation with a foreign intelligence agency. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u372	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Tracz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Polish diplomacy faces one of the biggest challenges after 1989, facing the reality of war beyond our eastern border, with the attempt of gas blackmailing Russia. Today, Polish diplomats and diplomats need our support, but also political peace. Unfortunately, the draft law on foreign service presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is what this calm storm and wicker during this difficult time diplomats and diplomats in Polish-Polish pushover. This project creates mechanisms that allow for another wave of purgatory in Polish diplomacy. Once again, under the decommunization coat 33 years after the fall of the commune in Poland, PiS wants to decommunize foreign service already verified several times by special services. Finally, PiS wants to push out of foreign service uncomfortable for the government diplomats and diplomats that he can't get rid of under the pretext of decommunization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have the impression that the government itself is ashamed of this project, which is why neither the Foreign Minister nor any of the Ministry's representatives are in the Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u374	Thank you very much. I also do not see Mr Andrzej Shejna. Please take the floor of Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u375	Dear Marshal, You're not here, Minister! High Izbo! During the war behind our eastern border, instead of improving this country, you're making up more unnecessary nonsense. The bill proposed by you introduces the need for additional verification of some of the people employed in diplomacy who have not completed their studies in Poland or in our allied countries. But why? After all, Homeland Security is already investigating every employee and employee. You want to prove how uncompromising you are, and you're really showing that you don't trust the institutions you've been managing for seven years. You really think you're that incompetent? Polish services and diplomacy now have their hands full, and instead of helping them, you are throwing logs at their feet and making unnecessary fuss. Come to your senses and do something useful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u376	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Grabczuk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u377	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is rare that we are debating a very important bill, and government benches are empty. So far, there have also been empty benches as regards representatives of the PiS. We're debating the bill we adopted last year. And we were talking exactly about the mistakes that came along. And that's what all the opposition parties said. The piss was ignoring it. After a few weeks, he had to change the bill. There's another amendment today. Foreign service should be professional, should build a strong image of Poland in Europe and in the world. Times are hard. What's the PiS doing? He sends amateurs to professional players. The metered but faithful - that's probably the main code of the PiS today. Poland has no foreign policy for good. He's got an external policy. And it's not enough in the modern world today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u378	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Łośko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of this bill, I kindly ask the government representative to answer the question whether Poland, in response to Russia's military aggression against free and sovereign Ukraine, considered lowering the rank of diplomatic relations with Russia. Was such a possibility even analysed and considered? Let me remind you that on the 4th of April this year. Lithuania has already decided to respond to the scary massacre in Buch. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u380	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Anna Wojciechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another surveillance of our society, but this time it's about diplomats. Still on this plane maybe there's room for their PiS. All you have to do is look through some biographies and look for places for your pseudodiplomats. Or should we really focus on the real problems and loneliness of Poland on the international stage? We are in conflict with almost all countries of the European Union or NATO, we are insulting anyone. Hypocrisy is the main feature of our diplomacy and the current PiS government. Perhaps we should finally take care of our Polish interests, strengthen our activities, not look at the biography of diplomats and create new jobs. I will mention here our esteemed, great and very well-deserved Polish diplomats, Professor Władysław Bartoszewski, who said: it is worth being decent, Mr Krzysztof Skubiszewski. Hats off, bow down to these great Poles. Would they have passed your verification? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm going back to the bill. Where are Poland's interests? Does the government even understand what diplomacy is? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u382	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to answer in writing because there is no one to hold this debate with, there is no government representative. Two questions. First of all, I'd like to ask who's gonna be the superverifier. If the ABW is insufficient, what powers do these verifiers have? Definitely higher. But what? That's not what the bill's talking about. And the second question, sad to me, is that I would say shameful about the statutory statement that a diplomat who does not accept the second indication will be deprived of his professional status. It's a very difficult profession. I think the bill had to be written by someone who probably has no idea how difficult it is to work diplomats whose lives are still on suitcases who change jobs, who are in new conditions, face new professional and family problems all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is very often that the diplomat cannot accept the indication for various reasons. Is that why he should be taken off the job? It's not even fair. I also wanted to ask for a written reply: How many vacancies are currently in the positions of ambassadors and consuls? It is a huge number, and this provision is yet to deprive those who are already working. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, where's the minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u384	Thank you very much. What minister, Madam? [[Well, the one that should be for this project.]] Madam President, we are having a debate despite the Minister's absence, because his absence shows the attitude towards this procedure over the bill. [[I'm so glad the marshal said that. Give it up for the marshal.]] [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szopiński. I would like to point out that in the benches behind the President's chair, the representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance are modestly seated. If there are questions directly to your vice president who does not answer, we will expect such answers from your president.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u385	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, represented as usual by three Members of Law and Justice on duty! Unfortunately, I have very detailed questions about this law, but, Mr. Marshal, I will not ask them because I do not believe that the Foreign Minister is interested in what the Members have to say to him, because simply neither his nor his representatives - and I do not know how many are employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but probably about 1,500 officials - I am not interested in that and therefore I will simply not ask such a question. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u386	You can ask, sir, because times two, or more than three thousand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u387	$3,000. I understand that this is a reason for respect for the High House, respect for Members, and we are here to discuss and debate this law. It's a shame to me that today I can just talk about it from here. People account for how active they are, but people will also account for the Law and Justice and Ministers and the 3,000. officials, none of whom had time to come to this debate today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u388	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u389	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 7 years, PiS has actually politicized all state institutions: the prosecutor's office, the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the KRS, public television, the Treasury companies, long to exchange. They also did not give up diplomacy and made sure that in a moment in Hungary the ambassador's office was taken up by a political candidate, until recently in Berlin, the husband of the first chef of Prime Minister Kaczyński, Mrs Przyłębska, was sitting on the seat of the ambassador. But it turns out that there are still real non-political diplomats, and you're not even gonna let them go now. Well, you wrote in the bill that if a diplomacy worker refuses to take a job twice, he's gone. So you're gonna offer a non-political official to Uzbekistan or North Korea, he's gonna refuse, and what? He's out of the game, and this is where your political friends, friends, Bearmen will enter. That's how it's gonna look now. It is a shame that especially now, when there are historic challenges facing Polish diplomacy, it is only important for you to politicize it. Disgraceful! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u390	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At a time when the role of diplomacy should be strengthened when the role of foreign service has not been so important for years, the government has done its utmost to weaken this service. Diplomats without knowledge of languages, without proper examinations, all in order to make it easier for them to take positions that they would not be able to take without changes to the law. And competence, knowledge, languages - all of this has become irrelevant. Now we are trying to make changes, talking about greater mobility in times of geopolitical challenges. That's what you put in the bill. Instead of stabilizing and continuously strengthening the role of Poland in the world, cleanliness is proposed, weakening and destabilizing the image of our country. Has the government had such a problem with diplomats that it must amend (the bell) in a law that will result in a loss of employment relationship towards a person who will twice refuse to take a position in the institution? Everything points to a yes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u392	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, and then Mr Andrzej Szejna, closes the list of people who are written for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As there is no Minister, I would very much ask for a written reply. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection has highlighted a number of issues which do not comply with the applicable law. He submitted this information in his opinion to print 2134. I would very much like to ask you to address these comments in writing and to present the Government's position on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szejna.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is, of course, scandalous that the Foreign Minister is not with us today when he tries to murder the Polish diplomatic service again. Another amendment to the Foreign Service Act is another amendment which does not care that foreign service cares for our economic interests. Another amendment, which does not ensure that it is effective, does not ensure that our interests, including economic, are represented abroad at a time when global relations and relationships change. It is an amendment that humiliates diplomats, which is intended to act on an immeasurable basis, but faithful, not a high school, but a desire to be honest and which humiliates those whose experience on many levels today means nothing. It is only important to be supported by law and justice. I express my deep opposition to the treatment of Polish foreign policy subjectively and strongly opposed to the treatment of diplomats as political activists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u396	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Since neither the rapporteur nor the minister is present, I would like to inform you that, in view of the fact that at the time of the second reading the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws (Print No 2186). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Arthur Soboń to present the justification for the bill. The minister's here, he'll probably need a minute and he'll be here any minute. Then I'm not declaring a break. We'll just wait. The minister's here. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No problem, Minister. You can get ready for a little while longer, but we'll have a three-minute break at the most.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u397	No, no, no... [[I think he's ready all the time.]] That is true, thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u398	Thank you very much. The Minister is already on the stand, supported by the faith presented by Mrs Senyszyn. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Minister, out of the way, out of the way.]] Indeed, in this matter from the very beginning of my work, that is, from the moment I joined the team at the Ministry of Finance, which deals with tax issues, I am completely involved. So it is with great satisfaction that I want to give the effect of this work to the High House today, because this is work. not only the finance department, of course not only the government, but also the outcome of the public consultation, the outcome of the public debate which preceded the adoption by the Council of Ministers of this project. Public debate, which, however short... If the Minister would wait a moment, I will announce - because there are still people in the room who participated in the previous item - that Minister Piotr Wawrzyk could not get there in time for health reasons. He could not arrive in time, apologizes to the High House for his absence and informs that he will answer the questions previously asked in writing. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I take it I can go on now, right? Then what I'm trying to say is that this is a project that has finally changed. For the first time we presented this project on 24 March, then it was corrected for the conclusions of the public debate, because we listened carefully to the voices of those who are in practice involved in accounting, who are suppliers of IT software, who are tax advisors who run accounting offices, they were also entrepreneurs, social organizations, trade unions, and finally local self-government units. Of course, there were more of those we talked to, but these are the main stakeholders who created this project for us together. Because this project is not only expected by the stakeholders themselves, it is also a project that was created together. This is a project which, on the one hand, means a tax reduction for the tax system in Poland, because we have a tax reduction on a scale of 5 percentage points. In practice, that means we have 30%. lower taxes on the tax scale, from 17 to 12% for taxpayers on a scale that received 30,000. the amount of free money, and for those who earn slightly better, high or much higher than in previous years the income threshold of 120 000. zł, in return for this there is no possibility to deduct part of the premium on health insurance. This package means a reduction in taxes on a scale, but for other PIT taxpayers, i.e. for entrepreneurs on a day's payday and on a roar, we also proposed a tax reduction. In the case of a line, this is the cost, in the case of a lump sum, of removing part of the contribution from the basis of partial taxation, i.e. half the amount of the contribution, and thus less is the taxable base for these taxpayers. In short, all taxpayers benefit from this solution or are neutral to them. We have today, after such a large tax change after 1 January 2022, a whole group of taxpayers who do not pay PIT in Poland at all, so for them, of course, this is neutral. This is to the benefit of the others, with around 13 million taxpayers benefiting from this solution. By giving this benefit to taxpayers, we have assumed that these are solutions that we would like to introduce, solutions for both exclusion from the tax base and reductions on the scale. There were also proposals that we wanted to introduce, for example. dividing the reduction amount resulting from the free amount into several titles, because this amount will, of course, be less now. We've got 12% on the scale. That's 300 zlotys a month. The point is to divide this amount: twice 150 or three times 100. Similarly, we planned, and we will, of course, make this reduction also work for contracts-orders. But whether it's new titles in the case of a tax reduction amount, whether it's a division of this amount into several sources - that's a change that requires legal preparation, and that's why it's since 1 January 2023 after consultation. On the other hand, after talking to entrepreneurs, so as to be completely fair, we have developed together a model of re-election of the form of taxation, and this possibility will be both in the annual statement and in the middle of this year. We want this system to enter from 1 July in advance and in a year's statement for the whole year, because it means that we have guarantees. As I said, it is a tax reduction, but it is also a system more predictable, more understandable and clearer from the point of view of taxpayers and tax payers, but also all those who work on taxes within the framework of the system - accounting, staff, others. It is about those who are directly involved in this, who simply implement it. From their point of view, it will be a uniform system of advances from 1 July and a uniform tax system throughout the tax year. So there is no doubt here that there is no chaos, duality or several tax systems in one tax year. There will be one tax system from 1 January to 31 December and a single system of advances from 1 July. That's why I want us to work together. As in the case, as I said, social dialogue, when these social demands have been taken into account by us and this project has changed, so I hope that the same will be true in Parliament, that we will be able to work together here efficiently - so efficiently that these solutions can actually be adopted on 1 July. Among these solutions is, I would say, the family package, i.e. more earnings for the working child, and maternity allowance to PIT-0, and finally the family pension as a separate income, and the joint settlement of single parents. I would like to say that this request has been met by us, what I have promised has been fulfilled. This is the only group that has the possibility. I mean, because of the difficult situation of single parents they have - which they do not have, for example. family - possibility of joint settlement with the child. We have introduced a gradation of these solutions here. That is, this benefit is greater if it is a disabled child, because it is then the second full amount free. For the remaining children, this is half the amount free. But adding a family pension as a separate income, i.e. as a separate amount of freedom, in the case of widowers, means that this is another amount of freedom that such a single parent can settle, i.e. in the case of a widower it is 2.5 times the amount of free. We've also made adjustments, say, anti-Bureaucratic. When we have difficult times, it is probably not worth introducing new responsibilities, such as other responsibilities associated with a single control file. It's been shifted over time. There are also several seals related to the health contribution, because there were methods for this quite simple tax optimization. That's not gonna happen either. We have some corrections to these solutions that we have proposed and which were also due to the public debate, i.e. the correction of the relief for monuments, the elimination of this relief in the area of trade in monuments, while the full control of the conservator over the relief in the case of renovations, i.e. expenditure already under conservation supervision for monuments. Here, this tax will function in this way. In the case of tax reduction solutions, because this change in total means PLN 15 billion more in taxpayers' pockets, this is also our response to the overall difficult situation with which we are colliding as Europe today due to the shock of war, due to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. This has an effect primarily in the form of high inflation. High inflation means a lot of pressure on wage increases and some of this pressure, this risk of doing business today, apart from the tax reduction I'm talking about here, we take on as a country, we reach out, we say we share this pressure, we share that risk. Therefore, we also treat this project as a strengthening of our economic resilience through the fact that there will be additional money in the pockets of Poles. But where the reduction means less influence, e.g. for a public benefit organisation with 1% PIT or, in the case of local government units, we introduce mechanisms to compensate these sectors for this difference. In the case of a public benefit organisation, the amount that will cover this difference will be directly the amount from the State budget. We have noted that the regulation will show how these funds will be distributed. In the case of self-governments, there will be a rule that stabilizes the finances of the local government, so that on the basis of a statutory mechanism that protects local governments from this type of revenue reduction... The point is to make it work so it works effectively. We're ready to talk to local governments about this. I'm sure it's the so-called amount. The development aid will be greater than we planned. If we compare the decrease in the revenue of the state budget and the local government budget, that's a ratio of 1:16. So we keep our senses here, our moderation. We know that local governments have important tasks. We want them not to be affected by tax reductions. This is a project that I can present with full responsibility also as a project that fulfils the basic marks that must be completed during the tax year. As a rule, tax changes - this will probably sound in this debate - are not introduced during the tax year. There's one exception. It is about changes that are neutral or beneficial to taxpayers. This is a project that meets this legal condition. So today, the word that taxpayers are going to benefit from these changes is not just a declaration from me. There is a legal guarantee. Otherwise, they would be constitutionally challenged. They could not simply be existing law, so in a sense the drawback of this solution - undoubtedly it is something above standard to introduce changes during the tax year - is at the same time a legal guarantee that the changes made are beneficial to taxpayers. Taxes are not a simple construction. I think those who do taxes know that for a long time. Those who do not deal with taxes very often learned this after January 1. The tax system is not a simple system in which we always have the expected result. Therefore, despite the fact that I guarantee that no one will lose to the tax arrangements that apply in the tax year, i.e. after 1 January 2022, that according to the data that we have, and according to the analysis that we have prepared, it can happen that one in 1,000. taxpayers in the event of a confluence of various reliefs combined with the so-called. A relief for the middle class... I didn't say it, but it already sounded and I assume everyone knows it, but the reduction also means moving away from selective solutions, i.e. so-called. relief for the middle class. However, if the application of it proved to be very beneficial for one of the taxpayers, the IT system will pick up such a taxable person on an annual basis - up to 30-40 thousand. taxpayers - and will correct his testimony on the basis of a hypothetical relief for the middle class. It is simply that the taxpayer will pay less tax, although the relief will no longer work in the system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This legal guarantee is also given so that there is no doubt that the system after 1 July will be more predictable, more understandable, more transparent, increase our resilience to the external situation, leave more money in the pockets for Poles and give entrepreneurs the opportunity to respond together with you to the risks of rising inflation. Finally, it is a project that meets the expectations of the public and those who criticized the solutions that such criticism may have required in the current tax system. This project is expected. He is consulted, thoughtful, worked out jointly with all interested parties. I think that's what I'd like to say first of all today. Let us continue to work together on this project. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws which you have already brought closer to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club will, of course, vote in favour of this project. I think that after a long and probably some moments of turbulent discussion most clubs, if not all, and circles will support this bill. This project is clearly positive, beneficial for the Polish taxpayer. Minister! First of all, I want to thank you for the way this project was processed. Indeed, in many situations, some comments are made on public consultations. However, this project was also presented by those who consulted the State as the Ministry of Finance as a de facto model project. Full understanding of one side for the other is what is extremely happy, because matter is very serious, very difficult and time is also unique. This is an exceptional time, because today you are putting forward a project that is slightly in line with social expectations on the one hand, because it reduces taxes in a clear way - I think that no one has any doubts about it - but it also stands a little in contrast to what is happening today not only in Europe but also in the world. So far, many countries, referring to the inflation crisis, the post-COVID crisis or today - also in Europe - to the crisis of the war in Ukraine, do not react so, and this money will be directed directly to the citizens of our country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a crazy important thing, but also worth emphasising - the fact that government activity in this area is unique and there is some kind of courage. This courage is needed to significantly reduce public tributes in a situation that is, of course, variable, difficult for countries, but also for citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, to numbers, to the point - in order to clearly show all the advantages of this law, which without a doubt, I think, each of the Poles is able to read. The result, ladies and gentlemen, of this regulation will be a reduction in personal income tax at a progressive rate, at the first rate from 17% to 12%. 5% tax reductions - this is the situation, looking at the entire tax system in Poland, unique, because we remember how taxes were reduced in Poland. It's not a tax reduction, it's not too frequent in our country at all. However, the value of the reduction itself is also large, not to say: very large. Let us keep in mind that the amount of free money remains at the level of 30,000. It was also recently submitted and was defined as a revolutionary amount in terms of its size, because it was changed in a fundamental way, like the tax threshold - a level of 120 thousand. Indeed, it is important to stress that, ladies and gentlemen, those paying this tax, and most of us paying this tax, will gain 30%. The 30% reduction at the level of personal income tax rate is a really big change. This affects, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister said, a dozen million taxpayers, over 13 million. 15 billion PLN will remain directly in our pockets, because here we are talking about pockets of every Pole who also pays taxes. Indeed, there will be groups that, you can say, will not benefit, but I will also recall a solution which is the participation of the Government of Law and Justice, which means that there is no tax for people up to the age of 26. Indeed, they will not benefit from this benefit, but they have been benefitted simply by not paying this tax. All this, ladies and gentlemen, shows that this project, in my opinion, as I said at the beginning, in a very difficult international situation will be supported, I hope, by the vast majority of our Parliament, because it is simply a good project which on the one hand brings down taxes, but also to seal the whole system. The Minister asked here to mention (the bell) even a certain optimization regarding the health contribution. She will disappear, so on the one hand we lower taxes for Poles, but on the other hand we seal it by creating a system that is far more fair. I'm asking for your support. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u400	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u401	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a sad duty to present my club's position on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, popularly referred to as the new New Deal, something that Poles already call new chaos. It's the third tax system this year, and we've only started the second quarter. [[Applause]] How many more of these are there gonna be? It's beyond imagination. How can a third tax system be introduced in a normal country within one quarter and say that Poles will be better? Let's take it, you guys talked about it. I quote the first sentence of the justification: Supporting further economic development of Poland, maintaining and strengthening Poland's image as an attractive place for investment is a constant challenge requiring action. No, it's no particular knowledge, no secret knowledge to know that investors expect the stability of the tax system, the transparency of the tax system, not the fact that within one quarter it changes a third time. [[Applause]] This is the first reading. Gentlemen, you tell the Poles: it will be better. You write yourself in the justification for the changes in this project. Tax reduction from 17% to 12% You've been talking about it. Poles will have better, taxes will be lower, Poles will have more money in their pockets. You only speak to the same group you spoke to four months ago, and you said that taxes would be lower, that Poles would earn more. It started in January and these cresmus teachers suddenly got lower wages. Further professional groups received lower salaries. That's why we're here today because it turns out that the first New Deal is pulling huge money out of the pockets of Poles. [[Applause]] Point two. Introducing tax-depreciating traders on a tax-scale basis to deduct part of the paid health contributions related to their business activities taxed on a uniform rate of 19 per cent, a flat-rate on registered income and a tax card - tax-clearing traders will pay a lower tax on a tax-scale basis by means of a reduced tax rate. I read it a few times to make no mistake, because Minister, I don't understand: did you read it before signing it? It's gibberish, it's gibberish. I'm reminding you a few months ago that accountants are lazy, that accountants don't understand, but it turned out to be accountants. [[Applause]] Minister, let me remind you what Professor Marianski said at the time - the head of tax advisors: that project was prepared by the theorists from the Ministry of Finance who had not seen the payroll. I have the impression that after January's experience, you still haven't looked at what the payroll list looks like. The third point describing what you are doing in this act: repealing the mid-class relief. Well, it reminds me of an old anecdote about how a man who complained about having a tight house was advised to buy a goat and move in with her. And when he couldn't take it anymore, he was advised to get rid of that goat. He got rid of her and was happy. Suddenly it turns out that you are great for Poles, because you are eliminating the relief that you introduced on January 1st. But the top of the summits, so as not to say the height of stupidity and stupidity - I don't know, Minister, if you have noticed - in this project you are eliminating the abolition relief that is not yet there. Because you've been wanting to bring her in since October. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] It's April and you're eliminating it. That's the project. But I would like to ask the most important question which should be asked here, precisely in terms of this tax chaos which you have introduced and which you are repairing as a treatment with cholera flu, namely the question about the Polish state right. How is it that since the turn of October and November, Prime Minister Morawiecki and the most important people in the country (the bell) know that there will be a war in Ukraine and nevertheless introduce Poland Load in the atmosphere of huge propaganda, which turned out to be lying? Because that's why we're here today, that January Polish Ład is pulling out money, raising taxes against what you're saying. How is it that someone who is in the Polish government is Polish prime minister allows himself to turn the tax system in the face of war abroad upside down? This is against Poland and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I admire the Minister, the President, because they are trying to put themselves in the role of people who will explain things that are inexplicable to us today. [[For who, for who?]] It just can't explain what's going on with the tax system. The truth is, I don't know when you're telling the truth. On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to ask honestly whether you were telling the truth in October and November 2021, when here, from this seymary in November, 18 million taxpayers in Poland will gain PLN 17 billion on the Polish Łada. That's what you said. The Minister wasn't here yet. Today he gives his face to the mess, for to be clear: this law of this mess does not solve. Are you telling the truth today that in general 11-15 million taxpayers will gain 13 billion PLN? The question is, what do they gain from? From what you promised in November, or from what you're trying to get all of us to think that there's gonna be some tax reduction? You're lying, just so we're clear, you're lying. Because there's no tax reduction to be clear. I say this honestly to all Poles and Poles. We were talking here, in this room, in October last year as part of a speech on behalf of the club, what you did, that you created a legislative francenstein, you put together, you stitched up some laws, you said to the Poles: you'll gain something, but you put on a nine percent health contribution. We said it was an extra tax. There's no way in math that taxes are lower if you pay 9%. More. It was simple and clear. What are you saying today? You say we have to eliminate a completely senseless relief for the middle class, because no one was able to explain what this is all about, in this complicated pattern. Not to mention the National Tax Administration and the tax officials whom the Left truly feels for you to put them in such a situation. Today you say this: Okay, so we eliminate all that relief. As of July 1, there will be a third tax system within a year, because it will be so de facto. You say we're reducing your tax from 17% to 12%. Let me just remind you that the health rate is 9%. , therefore, after deduction of 5% reduction from 17% to 12% from 9% There's still 4% left. an additional tax. Just so we're clear, more tax than we paid last year. Last year we actually paid 1,25% of the health contribution, which was not deducted from the tax. Don't lie to me about making things smaller, 'cause we're still gonna be paying 2,75% this year. tax plus. [[Applause]] There's no doubt about that. Math is inexcusable. You're not doing us any favors in this regard. The truth is that you should fix this on such a principle as to get back to what was in 2021 and work seriously on the tax system that should work in Poland. The system is constantly being changed and I would ask you to look at what the Left proposes in your tax system. There you go, these are really progressive taxes. Those who make 31 grand. PLN per year, they will not pay tax or they will pay 0.5%. Those who make 510 grand. annually, they will pay 40% tax. And that's fair, without any combination, without the things you're talking about today. There are dozens of these cases, of course, but at the end of the local government. See, I read the justification of this bill and it turns out that the introduction of this system will be absolutely neutral for local governments this year. After all, the Minister knows very well that, as far as PIT is concerned, local governments are mainly for this purpose. So if you're reducing this PIT, there's going to be general losses in the case of local governments. What's the next defect? 2023 - minus PLN 11 billion, 2024. - minus 8 billion PLN, 2025. - minus PLN 8 billion, 2026. - minus 8 billion PLN, minus 9 billion PLN, minus 10 billion PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, what are you gonna do to make up for government revenue? The point is that you are not able to present solutions to us for many years, and I will remind you that there is a project of the Left, which refers to the change of write-downs, in terms of PIT and CIT taxes, in favour of local governments, which should reduce these losses. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I declare that we will, of course, be working on this bill. But just so we're clear, this is your problem, you've made this mess, you as the United Right will be responsible for this mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u405	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Polska would like to present our position on the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws contained in print No 2186. First of all, Minister, today we would like to commend the government without any malice from this place for solving the problem that the government has prepared for itself, in the interests of entrepreneurs, in the interests of the affected teachers, in the interests of the affected single parents etc., etc., people who have severely felt this first version of the so-called. Polish Load, but despite all good will, with sympathy for those who have felt Polish Load very severely on their own skin, no, you cannot, Minister. It is not possible to say today that yes, this is the solution that solves the problem that we have been colliding with for the last months, and comes up against, offers some solutions in the tax system that create development opportunities that stabilise tax law. When it comes to tax law, it is such an old rule that tax changes need to be prepared, they need to be discussed, not carried out radical open-heart surgery, and unfortunately for a few months these works have looked a little like open-heart surgery, and that's when the patient barely gets sick. According to the authors of the project, the planned tax changes reducing the rate of PIT from 17% to 12% will cost the state budget a total of PLN 15 billion, of which less than PLN 7 billion this year. The remaining amount will not enter the budget in 2023. And here we have to ask, Minister: What about the budgets of local governments? Further PIT reductions introduced by the PiS government will largely be at the expense of the budgets of our municipalities and districts. And due compensation for already lost in the past income of local governments as it has not been, there is no such thing. Once again tax gifts from the government are to be realized at the expense of local communities, because local governments are local communities, which due to financial shortages often have problems with providing basic services to residents. The minister's speech was missing in the part devoted to it. Minister! In May, a year would have passed since we were convinced that tax changes prepared by the United Right Camp were a step towards social justice and tax progression, because they would remove fiscal burdens from the least earners and put them on the back of those with higher income. And the question is, is this password valid? Tax experts have serious doubts. The biggest advantage of tax changes is mainly the reduction of the PIT rate from 17% to 12%. , they will have those who have little and little pay danin, while those who earn more, i.e. the so-called. middle class, not anymore. Introducing Polish Loads, PiS assured Poles that the system would be more progressive and, as I said, the lowest revenues would benefit most. Unlike these assurances today, according to experts, people who earn a minimum wage, i.e. PLN 3010 gross per month, will not gain and will not lose out on the new reform that the Minister is making. Those with monthly income of PLN 4000 are to gain PLN 35 and those with gross earnings of PLN 7 000. zł - 65 zł. With $10,000 in earnings. PLN will already gain PLN 200 per month. Professor Elżbieta Mączyńska, President of the Polish Economic Society, sees these disparities. It claims that the tax system in Poland is regressive, i.e. that the rich are treated more lightly than those poorer and your proposal will deepen this philosophy. An important group on the occasion (the bell) of the process on this project is entrepreneurs. One sentence only, Mr. Marshal, in the context of businessmen. It seems that this is not the beginning of conditions conducive to development, but on the contrary, it is the beginning of problems. It states that, among other things, it draws attention to this. Business Center Club. Of course, as a club we will be actively involved in the work on this project, because care about Polish taxpayers requires this. On the other hand, you must expect that we will be quite rigorously reviewing the shortcomings, which, unfortunately, as I said, we regret to see in this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u406	Thank you very much. You will speak with Artur Dziambor and present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u407	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There was an anti-crisis shield, then an anti-putin shield, the Homeland Defense Act, and now we have an anti-state-of-charge shield. You've introduced a New Deal that we used to call a new jackpot. We warned you, we told you, we all told you, you may not listen to this opposition, but some opposition there is, from time to time, who will read the bill. 680 pages had a New Deal, we got it by e-mail on Wednesday night, and Friday morning we passed it, which means you guys. You've made up your mind. We said, "Don't make this shit up." But you guys didn't know what was going on, because that's what you were told to do in Novgorodska. So this is revenge now. You've introduced New Deal, now you have a bill, anti-newload shield. I'm a little disappointed because I suggested that this law could be called nicely, and I proposed on one of the TV shows that it would be called the law on the richness of Poles. Then you would have emotional blackmail on this side of the stage because they would have to support it and not discuss it because who wouldn't want the Poles to be richer. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, all that is happening here today and what we are about to have to work on in the committees is, of course, the fault that the previous team in the Ministry of Finance introduced this New Deal At a time like this, just like this, out of control. After all, they were outstanding specialists, the most important people in Poland, the Ministry of Finance, which introduced the biggest tax changes for 30 years. Minister, you are responsible for this. I sent an interpellation asking about this famous flyer and this advertising campaign for the New Deal. I asked there, I had some substantive questions about how it would actually turn out to be the enrichment of 18 million Poles, but I also asked why this campaign was carried out from the money of the Ministry of Finance, not from the budget of Law and Justice, from subsidies, because this campaign was a campaign of New Deal, and New Deal was a project of Law and Justice, a party project. I still haven't gotten an answer to that. I think it's been four months since the answer. So that I hope that you will remember now that you should reply to such an interpellation, I hope you will not pass through. Ladies and gentlemen, these tax reductions that will be introduced have already been summarised here by Mr Evening. I'm not gonna tell you again. This can, of course, be listened to again and understand that there is really not much to change, although of course we can hope for the future, because if income tax is reduced today from 17% to 12% Maybe next year we'll be discussing a reduction from 12% to 8%, or maybe in a few years when the Confederation rules, we'll end up with (the bell) income tax and we'll completely eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u408	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u409	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, when discussing this law, I should declare a clear victory over the camp of the United Right and a total victory of common sense over the tax gnot prepared by the Government of Law and Justice. After months of in-kind criticism, the PiS government withdraws from the so-called cancer. It's a polish deal. The problem, however, is that this New Deal 2 is the third tax system this year, and we are expecting another appearance of chaos rather than an order of the tax system. Ironically, the explanatory memorandum states that the government is aware that, as a result of the changes, the tax system has developed complicated and in some respects burdensome for taxpayers. Unfortunately, the law is not about simplification. It is also in the explanatory memorandum that the aim of the project is to improve the rules. This government new speech sounds dangerous, Minister. It doesn't bode well for taxpayers. Let me remind you that Poland 2050 has repeatedly demanded that the government withdraw from bad tax solutions. We made draft laws on this matter, and then the PiS government said that our projects concerning, for example, the taxation of multiple-child families on a child's scholarship or the joint settlement of single parents are not needed. It's the same thing in a government project today. That's a good thing, of course, but, Minister, why did you lie then that you didn't need these changes? Poland 2050 Szymona Hołowni repeatedly called for the government to withdraw from solutions that harm Poland, hit workers and Polish companies. As a result of the so-called. Polish Łódź today is trashed wallets of Poles and Poles, expensive, uncertainty of tomorrow, not to mention millions of working hours devoted to legal analysis, implementation and expertise. Today every citizen of the Republic is aware that the PiS government is the sword of Damocles hanging over the heads of Poles. You never know if he'll fall with his dangerous ideas. This project, Minister, doesn't change anything about it. We'll talk about the details of the project on the committee. Poland 2050 has concrete expectations about the work. Minister, I ask you to listen very carefully now, because it will be fundamentally different from how you worked on the so-called. The Polish Lad. Firstly, we expect a substantive debate, not a chaotic rush. Secondly, we expect a real and not a fairy-tale assessment of the impact of regulation on citizens, public benefit organisations and local governments. And thirdly, we expect the opinion of the social side, Minister, very important, to be heard and taken into account. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And perhaps as a result of such substantive, pragmatic work, this project will be able to improve, because unfortunately today it is only a prediction of what was to happen to improve the Polish tax system. In fact, it can end with another installment of Polish chaos. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u410	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[No.]] I am so sorry, Member. Ms Joanna Senyszyn will speak on behalf of the Polish Socialist Party. Again, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, print No 2186. Because of the inability of PiS governments, we are living in a time of crazy inflation and permanent tax reform. New Deal, or so-called. The PiS mess is such a wick and a misfire that it requires constant changes to appease an unhappy sovereign, because not only voters of all parties, but also this mythical PiS sovereign is not satisfied. During the tax year, the government withdraws from the mid-class relief, calling it inconsistent and complex. That's true. That's even a delicate term, because this relief from the beginning was absurd and unconstitutional, most importantly, e.g. did not include pensioners who could not benefit from the mid-class relief. The question is, why was she even introduced? Is there really no competent person in the ministry who can predict the impact of draft laws, in this particular case the consequences of this bottomless stupid idea? Unfortunately, the current correction is beneficial for the most prosperous part of society. With a reduction in the first tax scale from 17 to 12% will not benefit the people earning the minimum wage or 90% Retirement and pensioners. If you really wanted to improve the financial situation of all Poles, including those who are in the most difficult financial situation, you would lower the health rate, which is now also differentiated and therefore unconstitutional. In addition, it is paid for every income, and it should only be about one highest income, unless you think that work is so harmful to health that anyone who works more is also sicker. Retirists who receive a social pension and a family pension at the same time pay two contributions, which even makes them poor, so the rich get rich and the poor get poorer. Is that really what this is about? Now that you're talking, you can't concentrate on the question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proposed solution will further reduce the already low incomes of local governments, will lead to a deterioration of the quality of municipal services, public transport, education, will stop investments important for residents of cities and municipalities throughout Poland, will lower the salaries of local government workers and some will make them even unemployed. Of course, they will lose only the municipalities and opposition districts, because you will add to your right self-governments, so that you do not lose voters there. And that's the biggest flaw. How are you going to compensate for the loss of revenue to local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u412	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. 16 people signed up. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I close the list and set the time... [[I'd like to add myself.]] [[The Member wanted to add himself.]] There you go, we add the honourable Member. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! New Polish Load - the great success of the Polish government, such a huge success that today we introduce an anti-load shield. When we tried this bill, we received it on Wednesday, and on Friday you passed it. It had 700 pages. We were looking for Members of the PiS who read these 700 pages. They're not here till today. Besides, the fact that three Members represent the PiS Club today is the best way to deal with the issue of this new-loaded shield. Minister! Today, the Lord's speech from this place should start with the words: we apologize, Poles, that we presented such a booze to you, we apologize for this. Recently, the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz received a leaflet, which is a success of this Polish Load. I would like you, Minister, to explain to the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz how much this cost, that you will no longer misinformed them again as to what changes are being made in this document that we are investigating today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let this anti-load shield that we're going to determine today actually be an anti-load shield. And you, Minister, for the second time, begin your speech with the words: Polish and Poles, we apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u414	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Trela.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've got a poster for Mon. The reform of the tax wedge, Minister. Maybe you really had to shoot the wedge the next day instead of writing the recipes that you want to change and that you're eliminating. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] That billboard said the person who made $4,000. zł, will pay less tax. So I'd like to ask you how much the person who makes $4,000 is. PLN, will pay after the financial year 2022 additionally annually tax or how much will be refunded. Can you say that? Do you know that? Is what you've written on your knees just to get out of what you've been criticized for? In fact, in the place where you are sitting today, Prime Minister Morawiecki should sit and, as Mr Szopiński said, he should come out and say: "We are very sorry, we are trying to get out of this bubble (the bell), but we do not really know what the effects will be yet. I ask you to answer the question of how much the person who makes $4,000. zł, will pay real tax this year and how much will she have to pay or what refund she will get next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u416	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Janusz Silchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u417	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Justice in connection with today's amended law has changed by all cases, but in the justification of this law, the word did not appear, practically not once. The question therefore arises as to whether the implementation of this project will ensure improvement and greater tax fairness. And let me remind you, by clarifying the question that this tax justice is, first, the situation in which taxpayers of the same income pay the same taxes, and this is horizontal justice, second, regardless of what income the taxpayer has, the tax is just as bad for him, and that is vertical justice. The question is whether you are ensuring tax justice through this project (the bell) or whether you are at least heading in the right direction, because I believe you are not. This is the failure of the project you've been promoting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u418	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u419	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The American dream was to be praised - Polish Load. That's the third time you've fixed it. We said -- I was working on this bill in the finance committee -- that it's a mess. Where's the spiritus movens, the main inspiration for action, the soul of the enterprise, the main perpetrator that praised? He's been dismissed. So there was an American dream. At first, we said it was a nightmare for the accountants. It was a nightmare and they will still have to work on it, and we are not sure, and none of the Poles are sure that this system you are talking about will be prepared fairly and that even at the end of the year there will be no amendments. Mr Szopiński spoke about this and I am also lacking in your presentation of one main message (The Bell), one word I apologize to all Poles, all those who had to face the nightmare of your solution during this time. And we said, let's do it in two parts, let's give relief, and then let's settle. You've brought the greatest chaos. American dream was gone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u421	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Your government has made a whole series of decisions in the last six months, which have resulted in a reduction in the revenue of the state budget and an increase in expenditure. I will mention only the most important ones: PLN 15 billion for health under the Law on up to 6% Health expenditure on GDP, PLN 30 billion per army under the Homeland Defense Act, PLN 15 billion will generally cost us for 2, 3 months refugees from Ukraine, to whom we have to provide a bed and board, and Vikt, and access to health and education, PLN 25 billion is the cost of anti-inflationary shield from January and VAT reduction on various products, PLN 20 billion is the cost of increasing the amount of free to 30 thousand. PLN 25 billion is the cost of 13 pensions and 14 pensions. And finally today you come with a proposal to reduce taxes by 5 percentage points, which is going to cost less than 20 billion PLN. Total PLN 150 billion for additional lending needs under the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have two questions. Firstly, did you count, Minister, how this will affect inflation and will this 5% reduction compensate for the inflationary effects that we will all feel, especially the whole country, all Poles, in their wallets? Secondly, how much will it cost to finance this deficit, given that you are already paying 6.5% for loans in the financial markets? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u422	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u423	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The tax proposals you put in place weren't fair. They caused chaos and mess, so you hit hundreds of thousands of Polish taxpayers. This Polish Ład looked good only on billboards and you spent over PLN 15 million on promoting what turned out to be something you need to withdraw from as soon as possible. Better late than never, you have to do it as soon as possible. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to certain issues and solutions that are simply unfair. You told me that a single parent would be able to deal with him again. Maybe the revenue limit will be the same as for example. in the case of a couple of spouses, but the tax-free amount for the child will be only half already. So what? A single parent will only be able to account for half the child? It's irrational. These are ideas (the bell) that should really be changed as soon as possible. Minister, why are you introducing such unfair solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u424	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u425	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have a very witty government. The government's been joking for a long time about the fact that he's reduced taxes for everyone. He was not able to reduce only those whom he had previously completely exempted from paying taxes. That just didn't work out for the Minister. But do taxpayers deserve to be made fun of? We know what the truth is. The Minister was asked to correct the worst tax bill ever invented. [[Applause]] It was supposed to be a reduction, and it turned out to be a raise. Then it was supposed to be a reduction again, but there's only going to be a reduction in the raise. The only thing you have achieved so far is that none of the Poles knows exactly what taxes they will pay this year. [[Applause]] No one understands the tax system that applies in Poland. You have achieved one more goal: you have robbed local governments in Poland once again. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u426	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Wielichowska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u427	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Mr Urbaniak said that Nowy Ład, which came after the Polish Łada, was the third tax system this year, and it is only April. Mr President, Poland is the only such country. After all, the PiS government is at the forefront of something. But the fact that it is cloudy, the fact that it is not transparent, and the fact that you are bringing chaos and mess, ends my sarcasm, because it is not funny that it is Polish and Polish, it is not funny that it is Polish entrepreneurs, it is also not funny for employees, and above all it is not funny for single parents. On 24 March, after a wave of criticism, Prime Minister Morawiecki declared the possibility of a full settlement of a single parent with a child, which was taken by Polish Load. It was Poland that the Lad took away the possibility of joint clearing with the child from single parents. Suddenly, after 30 years, something that worked well and was fair started to disturb you and you felt it was appropriate to discriminate against single parents in the Polish Lodz, most mothers raising children alone. It seemed that after a wave of criticism you understood your mistake and that you would withdraw from the bad changes in New Deal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister promised that the government would withdraw from its unfair changes, but it ended only with promises because you still cheated on single parents, lied to and discriminated against single parents because you didn't restore old accounting rules to the child, because the project you sent to NGOs, to the Association of Lone Parents, included the introduction of twice the tax-free amount, and today the project is one and a half times the tax-free amount. You really think a baby raised in a family with a mom and dad is a whole baby, and a baby raised in a family with a mom or dad is half a kid? [[Applause]] Minister! Through you, I call on the government to process records that restore the possibility of single parenting with children together, because all children are equal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I came here to claim parents who raise children alone. I came here to claim them because you really tricked them. You hurt them very badly the first version of the New Deal, but you sent a new bill to consult. You sent him, for example. to an association that brings together single parents. And they say, "Yes, this project is making the changes we want. We'll return to the normal settlement of single parents and children. They said, yes, we agree to this project. It hasn't been a few days, and what happened? Another project came into the Sejm. What happened, Minister Soboń? What happened that Minister Morawiecki lied? What happened that you, promising your single parents a change, suddenly pulled out of that shift? Why should they account for half the baby and not the whole baby? Does a single parent have less spending on a child, buy less bread for such a child, have less spending on education, health care? I don't get it. Minister! We'll help you. We put together a bill that gives parents justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a print project 2042. What's more, we put this project together a few months ago. We also asked the Minister for Social Policy and our Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to convene a special meeting of the committee on single parents to tell them how they live, how they can be helped. And what happened? The committee's meeting has not been convened in three months. Minister: Why? Are these worse kids? Worse parents? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u430	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proverb says three times the charm. The third tax change in four months is something that was supposed to be an American dream, and it turned out to be a nightmare that you've given to citizens who are improving on their knees today, but unfortunately it turns out that you can't improve something that cannot be improved because you're lowering the raise and leaving something that's not working, which is a health contribution. I have a question from here for the Minister. You've introduced a health contribution that didn't take into account the inventory differences for a few months. My question is, what about the entrepreneurs who didn't pay that contribution because they couldn't afford it? Will the bailiff keep their accounts? Will they have to pay? Will you apologize for all the chaos and mess you've given to micro, small and medium-sized companies and all the citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u432	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Senyszyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that all Poles are interested in how we will account for next year for 2022: whether according to the relief for the middle class, i.e. according to the rules that apply now, whether according to the new rules for the whole year, or as it was once announced in the media, i.e. according to the rules in force in 2021, if they turned out to be more favourable to someone. But most of all, Poles are interested in who is to make such a decision. After all, the taxpayer does not need to know what is best for him. He won't hire an accountant if he is. on the employment contract or has not a very high income. Who, then, will make such a decision? How will it be technically (the bell) settled from this whole year? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u434	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In an interview at one of the television stations, you said you were apologizing to all the accountants who had to do an extra, unnecessary job. Today you informed the High House that it was this group that was the subject of a public consultation and this time this law will work well. One of the elements of this law is to make up for more than 9 thousand. public benefit organisations which will no longer be able to receive those amounts that they will receive for 2021 in the event of tax changes. This mechanism to offset revenue from 1% is partly understandable, but partly not because the competition procedure is also envisaged. I would like to ask: What part of the organization, which part of the funds are referred to in the so-called. Competition bell procedure for public benefit organisations within 1% ? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u436	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Noblekhta.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u437	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I listened to your statements and I found inconsistencies in the speech of the representative of the Left, because on the one hand the Member regretted that the reduction in the tax scale... [[The stakes.]] ...from 12 to... [[Voice from the room: Z 17.]] ...from 17 to 12 will increase taxes, and a few sentences further said that local governments would lose. If the income goes up... You said the taxes would make the tax revenue rise... [[You didn't understand.]] ...and then you said that the local governments would lose. You can't be so selective... [[Voice from the room: No.]] You didn't mention there was a tax-free amount of 30,000. And she's exempting a huge group of taxpayers from taxes at all. [[They're self-governments, too.]] And there is also the fact that clearing companies have a linear, tax card (Ringtone) and a percentage possibility to deduct the health contribution from the tax. [[God, protect the PiS from...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u438	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u439	If, in the previous version, taxpayers gained around 17 billion a year, and now additional relief will result in a reduction in the rate from 17 to 12, additional billions, it will be more than 20 billion in taxpayers' pockets. And that's the result. If you say that local governments will lose, I would like to remind you that last year local governments had revenues higher by 27 billion, a total of PLN 331 billion, 16 billion had surpluses last year. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to your work.]] And that's the facts. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Self-governments are protected, and the system and income rule in the Polish Łódź, which will continue to function, will also protect local governments. If there is also an increase in tax revenues in terms of translating economic growth, and I hope that we will maintain this growth, these revenues will be even greater. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about facts and figures, not propaganda that you are constantly spreading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: You spread propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u441	Before I go to the question, I have to correct my colleagues from Law and Justice: not only does pure PIT affect the salary, but this mixing, which you started in the first version of the Polish Deal with health contributions, has a significant impact on the salary, and you must not forget that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But I have a question for the Minister. To be honest, Minister, if you look me straight in the eye, because I don't count on it, but entrepreneurs, pensioners, people who have a lot of comments and doubts about you, answer today in this debate: Who will turn funds to lawyers, tax advisors, accountants who are wasted on adapting to the repealed regulations? Who will finance the next cost of adapting to the latest regulations? Who will compensate tax victims for further work on customization for customers of software that will have to work (the bell) in two systems in one year? And who's gonna finish this dumb-ass dance of the Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u442	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the question is, when will you finally apologize? Because there's a whole list of people to apologize to waiting in line. Entrepreneurs - for chaos, uncertainty and lies. Workers - for false hopes and unfulfilled promises of wealth. Accountants and tax advisors - for the sleepless nights spent reading this legal bubble and the nerves you have experienced. Tax officials - for having to glow their eyes behind you. Self-governments - for the budget hole they have to face this year. Single parents - for humiliation and total lack of understanding for their difficult situation. Persons with disabilities - for practically eliminating rehabilitation allowance for part of the group. Employed pensioners - for disrespect for their hard work also during retirement. And all taxpayers - for chaos and three tax systems. This has not happened in a normal country (the bell) had no right to happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! What are the consequences of this change - because there was a first change, a second, another one - for the state budget? Will this have to change the budget and when it is foreseen? Are those figures, the increases in expenses that Professor Rosati was talking about, on this scale? And finally, were there consultations with people who could tell you what was wrong? Did you really consult tax advisors, accountants? Because you wouldn't want to cause so much trouble with this next amendment, another change for the people who handle this accounting and financial service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u446	Thank you. A series of questions ends Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I want to ask you about the losses, about the financial consequences for local governments. This year local governments have lost a lot of PIT. [[They've gained, they've gained.]] Implementation of the state budget for 2 months - 31%, while local governments - less than 10%. This is due to the advance transfer of PIT shares. [[It's always been like this.]] The new project assumes a development subsidy and the proposed method of calculating development subsidies for individual local governments shows that some local governments will receive full compensation - these are small local governments - while (the bell) larger cities will receive only 20% of what they lose, 20% of the lost income. How are these self-governments supposed to function?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u448	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u449	Do you know this analysis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u450	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Minister Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much to the House for this debate. All the time, despite the voices that have been cast here, I am counting on this project to be adopted in accordance with the entire House and that the state will vote in favour of this project at the end of the day. As a matter of fact, I have no particular doubt about it either, because he answers those questions you asked. I will try to talk about them soon, referring to the questions themselves, and to the debate during which they spoke on behalf of the clubs. This is what we have today in connection with this January regulation and the law which later implemented this regulation, we have pre-emptive dualism - this is what I have said honestly and openly - and today we have a situation in which it brings additional accounting work. After 1 July there will be a uniform, understandable system of advances, which is that we have income, we lower it by the cost of income, we take social security contributions out of the base, then we multiply by the rate, 12% , and we reduce by a tax reduction amount. That's it. Everybody knows that. In addition, there will be no choice in the annual statement that the taxpayer will make. Clicks in e-PIT annual settlement and the tax year will be settled based on what we propose today. So the argument about chaos is completely false. [[But he was...]] Secondly, Mr Wieczorek spoke about the need to tell the truth. The truth must also be told to the end. Well, Mr President, your calculations with the addition and deduction of tax rates and health contributions, which was actually deducted from the tax, which was otherwise Polish specific, because we normally have in the European Union either from the tax base or not at all... If you want to count it honestly to the end, you have to say that in the range of 30-120 thousand, because up to 30 thousand. There's no tax at all, and up to 120,000, which is much more than 85,000, we have a low 12-percent rate... [[Voice from the room: 9% is.]] In short, of course, I am able - I have already given this in the public debate to be honest - to give examples of people who, with certain preferences, for example. 50% of revenue costs combined with the deduction of tax contributions may have higher taxation after these changes, while all of these changes will gain compared to 2022... [[Voice from the room: 2022 or 2021?]] ...and almost everyone in relation to 2021. [[Voice from the room: Almost.]] Almost, sir, because at 50% of the costs - I have little time, I feel a little sorry for these examples - to gain income if we put aside social contributions so as not to muzzle the example... Someone's making 10,000. And whoever made 10,000 paid 9%. And the contribution didn't change, by the way, it was 9%. and is 9% , i.e. 900 zł, of which he had a deducted premium of over 700 zł on tax and reduced basis by 43 zł of free amount, but a tax of 17% paid for 5,000 PLN, which is 8560 PLN. When he deducts it from the tax, he hardly paid tax at all, so with certain preferences today, even a 12-percent rate is, of course, a higher tax for him. But is that fair? And that's the justice I'm going through. Justice, that's tax progression. Well, I can bet with anyone here who wants to bet that this system that we're proposing... [[Voice from the room: What?]] We're about to figure out what it is. ...is always more progressive than the 2021 system. Up to 18,000. zł All those who paid tax in 2021, in relation to the changes we propose in 2022, will now pay this tax less and vice versa, above this amount all will pay more of this tax, so the argument about progression is false. The argument about who will benefit from this is even more false, because if you consider the division of earnings into the so-called. Decile, as is the case with taxes, is of course the greatest benefit for the smallest income and it is still a declining benefit. Finally, when it comes to local governments, because it has also appeared many times in questions and it has fallen in this debate, this is obviously a separate topic and it is impossible to say in a minute what the operating surplus looked like, the current surplus in which the investment situation today was in, because they are in a better situation than we all expected, which does not mean that in order not to build the resilience of the local government to tax reductions, we have not introduced development subsidies. It will be greater than that 3 billion PLN in 2023, there is no doubt, because we will reduce the revenue of local governments. We have introduced a legislative mechanism, the base reference amount will rise to PLN 74.1 billion in 2023, we will reform subsidies, we are also thinking about the participation of local governments in new income taxes, those which today do not have a share. We really do have a dialogue with local governments and we are trying to work out a common solution. Today we have 44 pages, so - that's what I'm talking to those who want to read - there are not so many pages It's the same as before. [[It's for my piss buddies.]] There were ideas like contributions from one income, etc. This, however, is too simple tax optimisation, with all the sympathy that the government would propose here. How do we want to keep working? 'Cause I'm gonna cut to the chase. I'd like us to work normally, I mean. so that there is time for the committee to read the draft before the committee meeting to work at the committee meeting. I have no intention of completing this project during this session of the Sejm, so that it is clear to everyone. As for the questions that have been raised: the question made by the Member is more specific... I'm afraid my time has been a disturbing rush. All right, Mr Shopiński. I'll try to refer to everyone. I am grateful to all those who took the burden of tax changes after 1 January 2022, and once again on their hands I pay my respects to the accountants, staff, tax services, advisers, all. [[Sorry about the mess.]] Mr Trela. 1800 zł, sir, in relation to 2021. Of course, it's not a simple answer to the question, because it's a trap question in the sense that every taxpayer has... [[A trap question?]] Yes, sir. If you understand anything, because Mr Urbaniak started by not understanding anything, you can join. This is the question of a trap in the sense that this taxpayer can account for his spouse, may not account for himself, may have such relief, may not have such relief. He could have had, for example. one order contract during the tax year and that changes the situation with regard to the calculation of that tax. With a simple employment contract, that's the amount. With classics, in a year, yeah. [[1800 zlotys, right?]] Yeah, that's ok. 135 zł a month. Mrs Skowrońska. I'm going back to those accountants, and I'm still expressing my gratitude. They know that... [[Excuse me, general.]] ...it's something that we're doing together today, and it's also the changes that this environment expects. For Mr Rosati, the answer is as follows: yesterday, as a government, we adopted the APK, we showed the path of financial consolidation, we can see the situation with regard to the deficit. Look at this. It's a useful reading. And if I wanted to be mean to Professor Rosati... In one sentence, the professor said how it would affect inflation and how it would compensate for the effects of inflation. Well, I don't feel like it's consistent. Mr Marchewka and many others have asked about single parents, and I am quite openly talking about this today, that the environment of single parents has the right to be bitter about the original bill, because it has even more preference than what we have proposed at the moment. They today represent a one and a half times the amount of free or two and a half times if there is a family pension, because this is also a change that is worth to be noted, e.g. For a widower, for families raising children alone. There's no way this is about half a child or anything, because there's no preference for joint checking with children except for single parents. This is extrapreference and some of the environments in the public debate have pointed out that this is a preference that families should also receive, and that is why there is this gradation as a result of a compromise that was developed at the meeting of the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers. [[30 years is...]] This is therefore the answer to Mrs Rosa and Mrs Wielichowska. Mrs Wcislo. That's where the word is expected. Well, as soon as I was appointed to deal with the tax issue in the Ministry of Finance, I did not wait for this package of changes that we are proposing today with the differences of remanent, but I immediately introduced it through another project so that it would enter into force as soon as possible. Of course, I can apologize for this confusion - because this is a manifest error - of all those who have suffered, and I can also tell you that, after these changes, there will be a possibility of retroactive correction, and I would also like to apologize and reassure. [[Applause]] To Mrs Senyszyn again: no taxpayer is to choose anything; the tax system will be one in 2022. Mr Tomaszewski said that the accountants were consulted. Well, you have to be precise: the accountants were the subject of this consultation, the subject of the bill being proceded, and we really, really talked about it for a long time. On the other hand, in the case of OPP, we are talking about this regulation only about the amount that will complement the difference. It's about that part of it. Mr Noblet spoke more precisely about the benefits of deduction of the premium from the tax base. I will really insist that there is nothing to defend in the Polish tax system of this archaicism, which was the deduction of health contributions from the final amount of the tax, but I have actually proposed a partial deduction to the limit, but it is not a trivial limit, because the maximum limit is PLN 725 from the monthly base. So that's about 15 grand. monthly income and this includes 60% all entrepreneurs on the line. Similarly, on a roar - half the premium on the tax base. Mr Paszyk, apart from, in my opinion, such a thing, I will not judge, the club's performance, asked the wise question: Who will give more remuneration to those who bear more expense? Us, i.e. the Polish State. We will increase the amount of remuneration for tax payers and this will also be part of this change, already based on the Regulation. Tax payers - because we have 25 million PIT taxpayers and 1200 thousand. tax payers, i.e. all those who carry out tax obligations on behalf of the State, collect advances, etc. - they'll get more pay. Mr Siekierski asked about the consequences for the budget. This is, of course, a likely scenario for amending the budget. However, I would also suggest that, in fact, this multiannual financial framework should look at itself calmly, because they show an interesting phenomenon: how, for example. last year's deficit of the entire sector fell to 1.9% GDP as a result of e.g. increasing economic growth. We had a record rate of 5.7%. GDP for 2021, i.e. high nominal growth GDP by 5 percentage points. That's better than we expected. So today, this is 4.4%. which we show at the end of this year is a careful planning of this deficit. What's more, I'd like to ask... I no longer remember who of your Members mentioned the sale of bonds and the financing of this debt. If I can find it, I'll turn my name and name politely. [[Mr Rosati.]] Or Mr Siekierski, I apologize. But here we have a really stable, consistent with the plan to sell treasury securities. We're already covering 66% of our debt today, and I'm really asking for some peace. There is no reason for this kind of anxiety here, from this speaker, to present. We had a really serious consultation, this project has really changed, that's what I've been talking about. Agreed, Mrs Czernow, we are also ready to talk to local governments about introducing other criteria, e.g. based on the amount of income from PIT. I'm really open to talking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I encourage you to read these tax changes that we have prepared and to work fairly, openly and honestly in committee proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u452	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please explain whether after the adoption of this project a multi-child family with four children will be entitled to benefit from PIT-0 if the child receives a scholarship for the results of the study. If so, will there be a limit, and what will it be? Today, if you get a scholarship in the amount of e.g. 500 PLN per month the family loses the right to PIT-0. Thus, the tax system discourages children from obtaining high educational results from families of many children. This is a very bad solution. I have repeatedly emphasised this in the parliamentary debate. I expect the government to make some changes. As Poland 2050, we proposed a legislative solution. Are the changes eliminating these bad rules included in the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u454	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, contained in print No 2186, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Print No 2182). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Arthur Sobonia, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services. In short, the proposal implements a directive that balances the situation of the EU Member States' troops operating under the common defence and security policy in relation to defence activities within the European Union with NATO. In accordance with the European Union's decision, the same preferences for VAT accounting will apply both to the North Atlantic Alliance troops and to the European Union military. This is an accurate mapping of the exemptions that today relate to NATO troops, hence this directive is being processed in individual countries, in Poland - in the form of a revision of the Act on VAT on goods and services. We would like it to be implemented by that date, which was proposed in the directive itself, by 30 June 2022. As I said, this in practice means that VAT rules will be harmonised as part of the defence efforts of the European Union and NATO armed forces. What's this all about? There are three areas. Firstly, exemption from VAT for imports of goods and services by the armed forces of the Member States for the use of those forces or civilian personnel accompanying them, or for the supply of mens or canteens, if these forces participate in defence activities carried out in order to implement the European Union's actions under the common security and defence policy. Secondly, the introduction of a specific regulation on the simplification of goods movements within the framework of the intra-Community acquisition of goods by the armed forces of a Member State, as in point 1, i.e. the common security and defence policy. Finally, a delegation to the Minister for Public Finance, which, under the regulation, will indicate the cases and arrangements for the reimbursement of taxes to the armed forces of the Member States taking part in those activities that we have been talking about here. In other words, in a slightly simpler language, both the acquisition of equipment and the transfer of equipment, e.g. within the framework of the regulation of intra-Community acquisitions of goods or the execution of tasks and expenditure in a Member State will mean exemption from VAT. This means in practice, so far, of course, there are no such situations, but when we estimate VAT revenues, we assume that they can amount to around PLN 12.4 million VAT less in the state budget per year than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u456	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Zubowski will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. [[Not Zubowski, but Mrs Masłowska is on her way.]] Excuse me, Mrs Butterwska. Mr Zubowski has not been entered.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u457	There's been a mistake, that's okay. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment to the law on value added tax contained in Government Project No 2182 is due to the amendment of the Council of the European Union Directive, which concerns the exemption from VAT of supplies of goods and services serving the needs of the armed forces and their accompanying civilian personnel if they participate in defence activities outside their State. To date, the directives included VAT exemptions for NATO defence activities and concerned both intra-Community movements of goods and goods imported into Member States by armed forces that participated in defence activities outside their own state. The revision of the Directive in 2019 covered VAT exemption for defence activities also within the European Union and not only NATO, i.e. an equalisation in the approach to VAT for the purchase of goods and services related to defence activities both within NATO and within the European Union. In order for this Directive to enter into force from 1 July 2022, amendments to the Polish VAT Act are necessary. The exemption from VAT for the supply of goods and services for the use of the armed forces of the Member States accompanying defence activities outside their country will be carried out by means of a tax refund and detailed regulations will be included in the Minister of Finance's Regulation. The refund shall be made at the request of a military authority and shall be entitled to a military body which has purchased goods included in the invoice issued for the purchase of goods, e.g. fuel, within 90 days of the end of the presence of the armed forces in the territory of the country concerned. What the proposal should contain, which documents should be attached and which heads of tax offices will be addressed - these arrangements include a regulation of the Minister of Finance. The budgetary implications cannot be calculated because it is difficult to predict the scale of defence activities within the European Union countries, the accompanying military expenditure, the associated use of goods and services. However, the estimates of the European Union show that this will result in a reduction of the Polish budget revenue by about PLN 12.5 million per year. As is apparent from the justification and it seems reasonable to do so, such a change by reducing administrative and procedural burdens will contribute to improving the mobility of military activities and therefore the Law and Justice support the proposed government project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u458	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u459	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that I will not be so critical, because, as a matter of principle, which you are talking about and what the Minister has presented, this proposal is about the implementation of the directive. The draft itself mentions the number of the directive and what it regulates - and we agree with that. It is an intra-Community acquisition of goods for the purposes of the European Union's troops, for allied troops, that is, stationed in Poland or in other countries, as a complementary solution within the scope of the European Union - we agree with that. We also agree to the exemption from VAT, from imports; this is what the directive says to treat it equally. And we are even within the deadline because the Directive was adopted on 16 December 2019 and its implementation is due to be by 30 June 2022. However, there is such an assumption that you have been waiting for the last moment, because nevertheless these actions, whether joint actions or the implementation of these rules in the European Union have been followed. We have a difficult situation today, and we can treat all of these solutions in such a way that this is the last moment in order to implement this directive. Minister, I have a big favor to ask. When you correct different regulations, when we do everything at the last moment when we are 3 years old to implement the directive, let's do it at a time like this to deal with matters that are systematically important, not today, when we have things that are super important, among others. concerning the closure of a gas tap or the state of war in Ukraine and assistance so that we do not think that this is a super-attractive solution that no one has ever invented before, and you are now implementing. And my question: Since when was this project consulted? When did you start? Is this your work, or is it your predecessor's? Other questions concerning this subject are related, among others. with regard to whether or not you are ready, and if so, how to control these imports into the Member States by the armed forces of other countries, including. for the purpose of goods used by civil servants. We're talking about securing the mess, the canteen and the others. What accompanying equipment, another in the case of civilians, will be able to be imported? And how are you in this regard? Do you see this division between what is strictly needed for the army and what can be brought beyond this solution that you want to introduce today? And these are my main questions at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u460	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anita Sowinska, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u461	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the government's draft law amending the act on the tax on goods and services, print No. 2182. Improving the crossing of borders through military transport and their free movement through the territory of countries is the subject of intensive work in the European Union. Military mobility is in practice faced with a number of legal and procedural barriers to crossing state borders and infrastructure barriers. These obstacles have a significant impact on the response time in the event of a threat and consequently on the security of the European Union countries. The case is particularly important for Poland's defence as a country bordering the European Union, as evidenced by Russia's military assault on Ukraine. In 2018, the European Union set out an action plan to remove unnecessary administrative burdens in the context of military mobility resulting from VAT regulation. These requests are reflected in Directive 2019/2235. The purpose of this bill is to implement this directive into the Polish legal order in order to harmonise VAT taxation on defence activities within the European Union and NATO. The draft law contains three solutions. Firstly, it is a VAT exemption for imports of goods carried out by the European Union's and NATO's armed forces. This exemption shall apply in the case of goods intended for the armed forces or civilian personnel accompanying them, or in order to supply their mess or canteens, if these forces are involved in defence activities. This exemption is to be implemented by refunding the tax on goods and services. The second solution is to simplify the VAT procedure. Where goods have not been acquired on a special basis and their import would not be exempt from VAT, the draft law proposes a simplification in the calculation of VAT, which is to be regarded as an intra-Community acquisition of goods for the movement of goods by the armed forces of a Member State participating in defence operations for the use of those forces or their accompanying civil servants. This will result in a simplification of the customs procedure, which actually takes hours and in specific cases even a few days, as well as another simplified form of VAT calculation, as is the case in normal intra-EU supplies. The third solution is a delegation to the Minister responsible for public finances to determine, by means of a regulation, the cases and arrangements for the reimbursement of the tax to the armed forces of the Member States involved in defence activities and their civilian personnel. Of course, we will be asking about the details of these solutions at the committee meeting. Of course, solutions for improving military mobility are needed. It should be asked why the EU Directive is being implemented so late. Should we have waited for the war beyond our eastern border? Can't you? were these solutions implemented earlier? After all, we often hear voices criticising free procedures in the European Union, but ourselves here, in Poland, we hold back the implementation of clearly needed legal solutions. The proposed changes should contribute to reducing administrative barriers and speeding up logistics processes, which should, as a result, facilitate the European Union's defence activities and have a positive impact on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. The Left is in favour of extending military cooperation both with NATO and with the European Union, and we are in favour of creating a common European army. The Coalition Left Club supports further work on this project in the Public Finance Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u462	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to speak in order to present the position of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry you don't like my club appearances, but maybe after that, you'll change your mind. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland, I would like to present our position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, contained in Seym printing No 2182. Many of the main assumptions of the project have been discussed by the previous speaker and the previous speaker, and I will not repeat this. On the other hand, the two main arguments are that as a club we will, I think, verify this project positively in the vote. The first is clear and objective: implementation of the EU Directive. We are obliged to - like this However, it sounded - in time, in time to implement it. It's a good thing that this actually raises the level of standards that we've been observing lately and that weren't the best. The second argument, Minister, is, I think, also a very objective argument. We have time which forces military cooperation, will certainly challenge today the cooperation of allies in the North Atlantic Pact or with our partners in the European Union. We must not create a good basis, a good foundation for this also in the tax dimension, which concerns certain formal rules related to this. So that, in summary, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland will support this bill. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well done for the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u464	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Urbaniak, Confederation, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let us start with the fact that the European Union is not NATO and that organisations have different objectives, so let us treat them differently and do not equal these standards. The bill exempts from VAT the armed forces of other EU countries importing goods from our country. It seems at least inappropriate for several reasons. Firstly, tax exemption is always associated with some reduction in the state budget. We should consider whether we should do this for the profit of other countries in situations where Poles have a cash problem, they have a problem even with renting an apartment today, not to mention how much more you print and how much more you spend on different fanaber. Secondly, do you really believe that the reduction of the Polish budget and the support of the western army can help Polish defence? Will it really serve the Polish society? Are you sure that Germans or French people known for their slowness, known for their pro-Russianness, will sacrifice themselves to defend Warsaw? 'Cause I have a lot of doubts about that. I have no doubt, however, that security can only be ensured by a well-funded and modernised army, and not by strong neighbouring armies, which may or may not, will help us in the course of the threat. We have for this, remember, NATO, not EU systems. Nor do we agree that such projects should expand or draw us closer to creating a European army. A common security and defence policy in the future can become its caricature. More, Prime Minister Morawiecki said on 27 February that spending at EU level should be increased from EUR 300 billion to EUR 500 billion. We need to increase our defence spending, but within our own countries. Here, on the Vistula River, we need to increase these expenses. This is also due to allied commitments in NATO. We do not believe that the Brussels-controlled army would ever be ready to defend the Polish national interest, and this is also what politicians who are in this Chamber say, and all those who are extremely pro-EU, even in an irrational way, causing them to forget that there is still a Polish national interest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u466	Thank you very much. 32 seconds for Mr Grzegorz Braun. [[As much as he needs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u467	Dear Marshal, High Law of Izbo! So the kitchen door... [[What empty, what empty, Mr. Chamber?]] Law - listen with your ear, not with your belly - Law of Izbo! Kitchen doors lead you out sovereignty, blur the sharpness of contours of the independent Republic of Poland, and that's what happens here. At least have the honesty to refer the bill (the bell) to the National Defence Commission. Let her say whether she accepts the presence of other armed forces, as you write here, than the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland within our borders. To be continued in the question. [[Applause]] [[Do you see through these glasses, sir?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u468	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is in our interest to create such conditions that allies - whether NATO or other countries of the European Union - can operate freely throughout our community and wherever there is a threat to our security, where human life is at risk, where our interests are at risk. And I think that in this House, especially in this House, there should be no doubt that this law that we are working on today is in the interests of our country, Mr President. [[There are doubts.]] Start thinking in Polish, really. [[Applause]] I encourage you, sir, to remain serious... [[It is in the interest of our country to maintain sovereignty, only a Polish soldier on Polish soil.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u470	I ask Mr Braun not to be disturbed. [[It is the Member who enters...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u471	Thank you very much, Marshal. ...and to act in favour of the sovereign Polish state, and what we see today, when the need for cooperation with NATO, the need for cooperation with the European Union and the creation of an area of security, is something that acceptance does not come easily, it is unacceptable. Of course, the aim of the project is to harmonise the rules on VAT, defence activities within the European Union and NATO, as is apparent from the provisions of the directive on the basis of which this proposal was prepared. It's worth remembering... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Quiet.]] I'm the one who can wait for the Member to stop messing around. You have stopped, thank you. It is worth noting that so far, thanks to previous work, NATO Member States have been subject to some facilitations in the field of VAT, and this has not been applied to the Member States of the European Union. This revision of the directive, which results from a profound reflection on the common defence policy, has led to the same principles so far, they will be applied to the countries of the European Union. And there are no obstacles to this bill. Moreover, if we want to create a community that is moving within the same framework that shares the same values, if we want the processes related to the creation of defence potential, the creation of the deterrent force to function and function without any charge, and all our enemies or even our enemies were aware that there are no obstacles to taking appropriate defensive action, then this project is a good step in this direction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, it is not enough that we will vote in favour of this project, but we call on all patriots to support this bill, because in this is the interest and the right state of the Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u472	Thank you very much. Ms Senyszyn, who will present the position of the Polish Socialist Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the PPS Parliamentary Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services contained in print No 2182. The proposal implements Directive 2019/2235 of the Council of the European Union of 16 December 2019. It provides for compliance with EU standards of Polish tax law in the area of supply settlement for NATO Member States' Armed Forces. It is a proper process of harmonising the law of the Member States of the European Union and will facilitate the operation of military quotas of the Alliance stationed in Poland. American soldiers alone are already more than 10,000 in Poland. The introduction of these provisions will facilitate the process of supplying allies with food, equipment, training and maneuvers conducted in cooperation with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The budget costs, as the Minister said, will amount to PLN 12-14 million per year, so this is not the amount for which, as the Confederation seems to be, it would be worth putting itself under EU sanctions. This is why the PPS Parliamentary Circle supports this bill. The main reason is that we are always in favour of complying with EU rules, harmonising them, since we are a member of the European Union. And the fact that we are a member of the European Union is the greatest achievement of Poland in its history, in the whole history of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u474	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. Eight people signed up. Would any of your fellow Members like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question. What is the European Commission's respect for how much this preference can cost the Polish budget? The question is whether the Ministry confirms this value. Isn't that about 12 million or do you have any other calculations? I'd love to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u477	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, four of whom are taking part in this debate! I would like to ask from this point on whether, in the future, you will start to create similar transparent and concise drafts of laws that will be understandable to everyone, and above all, they will be understandable to you. As to the content of the project, I have no questions, as it is fully understandable, transparent and there is no doubt or ambiguities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. I can't see. Then Mrs Joanna Senyshin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is a risk that if we had not implemented Directive 2019/2035 of December 2019 by 30 June 2019, we would have paid penalties. As we know, the Moravian government loves to pay punishment. For the existence of a Disciplinary Chamber, which is neither a court nor within the meaning of Polish law nor within the meaning of EU law, we pay EUR 1 million a day, and together soon will be EUR 200 million. Are you therefore presenting this project because, somehow, you would change this shameful policy of payment of penalties and non-compliance with EU law, which would be very positive, or only because of the fear that if implementation had not taken place by the end of June, then a proceeding would have been initiated (the bell) and Poland would have been paying, i.e. throwing away more money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u480	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Marta Wcisło to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Implementation of the EU Directive of 16 December 2019 exempting goods and services from VAT in the European Union for use by armed forces. We're in favour, we're in favour. My question, Minister. The Act enters into force on 1 July 2022. This is another law adjusting legislation that comes into force at the last minute. At the end of the year we had an implementation of regulations which require entrepreneurs to exit or withdraw 30% products, foodstuffs and chemical articles which contained a certain ingredient. Entrepreneurs had three months to do it. You guys had three years to do this, and the entrepreneurs had three months to do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a request for the Minister. I ask that you ensure that all implementations take place earlier, faster, so that entrepreneurs, Polish citizens, have more time to implement EU law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u482	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u483	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The project we are discussing is the implementation of the European Union directive, practically one to one. You agree to improve military mobility with regard to actions under the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union. This, of course, is good and right and we will support this project. I would like to remind you that, for citizens, security has, among other things, the legal dimension, the dimension of a fair, independent court and the material dimension guaranteed by European Union funds. I would like to ask when you will provide this to the citizens. When are you going to eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber and unlock the funds from the Reconstruction Fund? When are you going to make the Members of the Law and Justice order in your own club and in a group of people who harm all Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u484	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u485	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I join the questions asked by Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski in the field of inter alia. payment of penalties for judgments related to the Disciplinar Chamber and mobilisation of funds from this financial perspective and the National Reconstruction Plan, Minister, because these are important things for Poles. In the context of my question regarding the implementation of this directive, you said that you estimate this as a minor loss in the budget. We are still against some Members who have said that they are talking to an empty room and have not noticed us. Indeed, this damage, as you say, is about 5 million with a piece this year and about 12 million next year. I have the following question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Implementation, the Act will enter into force on 1 July 2022, the Directive entered into force in 2019. Before that date and to what extent should VAT be refunded to other countries on the basis of which we refer in this Directive? Do you consider this country or other countries have introduced this solution earlier and will be refunded VAT? There will be no VAT in another country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u486	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u487	It is not like here in the title for misleading the opponent, that is, the Polish nation, the law on amending the act on tax on goods and services. This is not an implementation of some European directive. It is a law on the introduction to the legal and administrative structure of the Republic of Poland of the European army. There was no debate about the armed forces of Europe, and therefore not the Polish, not the forces subordinate to the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland. There was no such debate, although, of course, Mr President, Chief Kaczyński is one of the pioneers in this area, who were among the first to insist that the Euro-City Armed Forces should be created. This is a tragic moment. By the kitchen door, once again, you introduce into the Republic the forces of foreign countries, which are already difficult to count. And that is what I oppose, and therefore firm (the bell) veto of the Confederacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Soboń, Minister of Finance, will now answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! I would like to thank all the clubs and all the Members who have asked questions for their participation in this debate and, where these questions were questions, I will try to answer them. Mrs Skowrońska asked when the work started. October 22, which is long before I joined the management of the Ministry of Finance. Today we're finalizing this work. On the question of what kind of equipment it is, I will answer in such a way that Mrs Mielec is from Mielec, I am from Świdnik and we know only about helicopters. There are listed in detail, as in the NATO Military Regulation, equipment and various kinds of goods, etc., which are and will be covered by this Regulation. This will be mentioned in the regulation. Of course, I can answer in writing how it looks in the case of NATO troops, so that you too know. [[I'll be very pleased.]] It's a cost thing. The costs will amount to EUR 80 million for the Union as a whole. It's not broken into countries. We crashed in such a way to show the estimated cost. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If Mr Urbaniak had survived, I would have answered his question. It is difficult to estimate these costs for one simple reason - and here I respect Mr Braun and Mr Urbaniak - because this is not the case today in the European Union, i.e. there are no troops that would operate within the framework of the common security and defence policy in Poland. On the question whether Mr Braun's statement is quite colourful, that it is difficult to count, I will say that it is quite easy, i.e. There is no soldier today that meets the criteria set out in the proposed law. However, this is at the level of the directive, because exactly the same rules would apply to Polish troops which would carry out such activities in other countries of the European Union. So here we have full symmetry and common relations, common principles for the armed forces - attention, Mr President, to the Member States of the European Union, not to the armed forces of the European Union, but to the armed forces of the Member States of the European Union, and I will say more: acting within the framework of the European security and defence policy. These are the criteria that must be met. Mr Urbaniak rightly said that Polish security should be based on the Polish army. We should increase expenditure from the state budget to the Polish army and that is what we are doing. On the other hand, if I really wanted to be malicious - I try not to be - it is to say: the troops controlled from Brussels, I would say that this is where NATO is located, so I assume that this was not exactly the intention of the Member. [[Mr. Minister assumes well.]] I'm very happy that at least we agree on that. Mrs Senyszyn, as usual, has crossed the line, but I would say that the Polish government loves to pay penalties, etc. It is shameful, Madame, to impose penalties and to test such solutions in cases where we are dealing with, for example. with the provision of a safeguard measure and not with the judgment as in the case of the mine in Turów, for which financial sanctions have been imposed. Moreover, it is already obsolete and is still to be enforced from the state budget. This is disgraceful. It is shameful to increase the scope of repression against Member States when there is a one-man resolution on a safeguard measure. The States are communicating, there is no judgment in this case, moreover, it is a provision which, as we all sit here, we know, could not be implemented in practice, because it is impossible to close the mine overnight. So let us be careful with such statements that the Polish government loves to pay penalties or with such comments. On the other hand, I will not refer to the formulation that there are politicians among us who harm all Poles. I really don't think it's the right way to hold a public debate. I have already said that there are no such troops, and therefore there is no one here today - I address Mrs Skowrońska - no analogy. On the other hand, with regard to Mrs Wcislo's statement, taking a step backwards, which is to say back to the previous debate, I am trying to ensure that the proportions between administration and business are preserved, and where they are not preserved in the case of tax solutions, for example. in relation to the Social Security Office, not only as regards the excess payment of the contribution, I have eliminated this deadline, this difference of deadlines, but we have eliminated the proposal at all. There is no application, this will be done from the vending machine as in the case of the KAS and the tax. So where we see that disparities between administration and deadlines are at the disadvantage of entrepreneurs, we try to do so, in the case of this law there is no such situation. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u490	Thank you very much, Minister. Maybe the Minister will wait a little longer, because Mrs Senyszyn wants to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u491	Yes, Minister Soboń clearly didn't misunderstand my statement because it was so simple that an average smart chimpanzee would understand it, as much as he just didn't hear it, because I didn't mention the penalties imposed on the Turks. I was only talking - and I can repeat this - about penalties that are imposed for the existence of illegal, contrary to Polish law of the Disciplinary Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u492	And what is your point? [[I would like to address the words addressed directly to me.]] No, they weren't addressed to you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Shall I stand here, marshal?]] The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services contained in print No. 2182, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection.]] So the Member proposes that if it is not for the finance committee, what committee is it for? [[To the defense committee.]] To the defense committee. Therefore, the opposition will be voted out in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers (prints No 2185 and 2188). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u493	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, I have the great honour to represent two committees, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which have discussed today a very important subject, on a very important project - a draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. I think that a very important moment has come for Polish agriculture, because farmers have been waiting for this bill since the commune. It was the commune that introduced a very unfair social record, that the commune introduced a statement that in order for a farmer to have a pension, he had to give his land, his work workshop or sell it or sign it to his children, he had to simply get rid of this work tool. It was unfair because whoever was doing business didn't have to do it, and the farmer had to get rid of his workshop. That is why it is a very important bill, the bill expected. We remember this, and it was said at the committee meeting that many parties who wanted to win votes in the countryside promised that they would introduce this provision that they would withdraw this unfair record of the commune - because we know that at the time this entry was in force, the Polish United Workers' Party, as well as the United People's Party, ZSL - and many parties, using it, gained votes in the villages. We finally want to put up with this communist relic. The Government of the United Right, Law and Justice has proposed a law which, as I said, introduces the provision that a farmer who wants to retire does not have to transfer his land. At the committee meeting there was quite a good atmosphere, i.e. it was obvious that the committee majority wanted to introduce this law, there were no big discussions, no votes against. Two amendments have been made: one legislative amendment, very small but tidy, proposed by Vice-President Jerzy Małecki, and the second amendment proposed by the President of Solidarity for individual farmers. I want to stress this very strongly, because Solidarity for individual farmers has fought very hard for this law in talks with the Prime Minister and with Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk, as well as with the President, because the President also promised that this change would be introduced, and to this, as I said, it has led. Therefore, I strongly stress the role of Solidarity of individual farmers, which I also have the pleasure of being a member and president in the Łódź voivodship. But returning to the committee meeting - Mrs Teresa Nolas, as President of the European Union Solidarity for Individual Farmers, introduced a very important amendment which relieves farmers who retire from paying their pension contributions. This is a very important and very good amendment, which, as I said, the committees adopted unanimously. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, as I said at the outset, it is a great pride and joy for me that I can propose such a good bill to you here in the Seym as rapporteur for the two committees. And I want to say that farmers really do, but it's really been a number of times that they've asked us to have this bill processed and to put this record in place. In addition to this important provision, this law also has some provisions ordering matters concerning the functioning of the KRUS, but these are already minor changes and there have been no here, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo, any controversy at the committee meeting. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, to make it clear that this law does not solve all the problems that, as far as the CRUS is concerned, there should still be some changes. I know this and I can say - I think the Minister will confirm this - that the Ministry is currently working with the President of the KRUS on further changes which will be made and which are also expected by farmers. I'm talking about valorization, counting the value of agricultural pensions. This count, which is written at this moment, is not entirely fair. The most recently announced valorization was 7%. But we do know that this valorization has caused not all farmers to get 7%. and many farmers got far less than 7%. Therefore, further changes to the KRUS and farmers' contributions and pensions will be prepared and farmers will also be waiting for this. Therefore, in conclusion, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Joint Committees, I ask the High House to pass this bill and introduce this law, because it is really very necessary, very important and symbolic, as I said. Another relic of communism, the Polish United Workers' Party and the ZSL will be overthrown. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u494	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first speaker will be Mr Jerzy Małecki, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the great honour of expressing my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. This project provides solutions for which the Polish village has been waiting for years. Their entry into force will make sure that, at last, retired farmers will not have to stop farming in order to receive full benefits. Finally, the desire to make use of the entire pension will not require the farmer to sell, lease or transfer the farm, because the harmful provision for Polish farmers, which did not concern any other professional group, disappears. No one else was ordered to dispose of a workshop or work tools when they retired. The project regulates issues related to the confluence of agricultural insurance titles and the general social security system. Farmers will be able to avoid adverse breaks in the social security coverage of farmers. The new rules will promote greater professional mobility. Farmers will be able to take care of the loss of insurance in KRUS e.g. training to enable them to acquire new qualifications. Finally, pensioners and farmers will have the possibility of healing rehabilitation in KRUS centres, and carers of disabled people will have the opportunity to direct them to regenerative turns. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not too much to say that the government bill amending the act on social insurance for farmers restores the Polish village to social justice. The proposed rules implement the demands of farmers and agricultural organisations and the establishment of the agricultural programme of Law and Justice. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes this groundbreaking bill and advocates that it be referred to and adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u496	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Frydrych will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u497	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, Parliamentary Printing No 2185. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the bill is to regulate issues related to the confluence of agricultural insurance titles and the general social security system. Until now, it is leading to insurance from the general insurance system, but today's bill gives farmers the option to choose. Unions and agricultural organisations have for many years called for a change in the right to retire to KRUS without transferring the agricultural holding. Until now, a farmer wishing to retire has been obliged to transfer his agricultural holding on the basis of a notarial act. In other words, the owner of the holding who wanted to retire had to give it away, i.e. hand it over to the Treasury, sell, lease or hand over the land in the form of a donation. The proposed changes will allow farmers to collect pensions if they reach retirement age, without the need to transfer the holding and stop working on the farm. The trade unions of individual farmers have positively assessed the changes in the legislation on rehabilitation of retired farmers. The words of support were directed at the possibility of further voluntary social insurance for farmers of persons who had so far been excluded from insurance. In particular, it concerns farmers excluded from the scope of scholarships and traineeships, as well as non-professional service of soldiers or substitute services. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of this draft law have been awaited for years by farmers, their families and associations and agricultural organisations. For years too, Law and Justice has created an illusion of taking care of Polish agriculture and farmers. For years you have been pretending to know the problems of the Polish village, pretending to lean over them. You do not want to remember about raising the retirement age for women's farmers from 55 to 60 years old and men's farmers from 60 to 65 years old. And that's what happened during your reigns in 2016. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Voice from the room: Deception!]] [[Voice from the room: Boo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u498	Mr President, when you spoke, no one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u499	Sir, I'll explain. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, do not allow hypocrisy and lies.]] In 2012, when the retirement age was increased, the provision that talked about the retirement of 55-year-old women was not raised. Please read the recipes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u500	Dear Member, please do not enter into the discussion but continue your speech. It's for the best.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u501	That's for the best. [[He's interrupting on purpose.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers remember this and will remember the lack of support, among others. for pig farmers for investments protecting farms against ASF, they will remember the rise in fertiliser prices and the widespread cost of production at the limit of profitability. For the past seven years, you haven't been able to solve farmers' problems. Is the immediate changes now being made the result of fear of a fall in support and a loss of power? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many people waiting for changes in agricultural pensions. These changes are justified and required. The Civic Coalition will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kulasek will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund there are almost 1134 thousand insured. persons. 679,000. they are farmers, the rest of the group are mostly spouses and domestics. We also have over 1 million beneficiaries from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, of which 810 thousand. They're retired. Total expenditure on pension benefits from KRUS amounted to nearly PLN 18 billion. I quote this handful of data to make the High House aware that the discussion is about a project of great social importance. The government bill amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act contains a number of socially expected solutions. Firstly, a retired farmer will not have to stop farming in order to receive full benefits. The pensioner will be obliged to continue to pay the pension contribution. Secondly, issues relating to the confluence of insurance titles from the agricultural social security system and insurance from the general social security system will be dealt with. Thirdly, the possibility will be introduced to include part of the agricultural pension of the active military service in the Polish Army or its equivalent periods. Fourthly, agricultural pensioners will have the possibility of healing rehabilitation in KRUS centres, and carers of disabled people - the possibility of obtaining a regenerative turnout. These changes should be assessed positively, but a spoon should be added to this honey barrel. The average pension from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is PLN 1436.36. This amount does not arouse enthusiasm, especially since every month you can buy a modest basket of goods for an average agricultural pension. Agricultural pensioners have fed Poles for years, and now they often have nothing to put in their pot. They're forced to walk away from the pharmacy windows because they can't afford to buy drugs. The poor look them in the eye. 11 percent inflation eats benefits received by Polish pensioners, both those from the Social Security Office and those from the KRUS. Therefore, the Left submitted a draft law introducing the second this year, September's valorization of pensions and pensions, which was 12%. The task of the State is to halt the process of pauperisation of Polish pensions by increasing their benefits by a level close to inflation. The Left supports the government's bill to amend the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, but you, dear representatives of the parliamentary majority, support our solutions for the additional September valorization of pensions and pensions. Support the draft law of the Left introducing a 20% increase for the staff of the budgetary sphere. Protect the domestic budgets of Polish pensioners, pensioners and employees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u505	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the discussion is very interesting, just as this law is important and interesting. So it is worth recalling a little history in this interesting discussion. It is worth reminding the High House, but also the Poles and Polish farmers, that we are really celebrating this year the 50th anniversary of the inclusion of farmers in the health care system. Until 1972 Polish farmers could not use the state medical service free of charge, as was the case at that time for employees of other spheres. And it is also true that after this year 1972, in 1977, further reforms of the social security system in agriculture were carried out in 1982, so that ultimately farmers would also be covered by the pension scheme. Since then, farmers can also receive pensions, which was not before. The truth is, there was a commune back then. And it is also true that the author of these solutions, the originator, the group that led to this, was the United People's Party. By contrast, the amendment of the provisions on the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and its establishment are modern times, so to speak, 1990. This law, which we are updating today, has its foundation in 1990, i.e. not in the times of the commune, but in the times of free Poland. At that time, Members in this House decided to organise a modern, KRUS-based system of farmers' insurance so that the right to retirement can be granted to those who pass on their farms to young successors, most often to their children. I remember - at the time I was a young man who wanted to take over the farm, a student of the General School of Rural Farms - a discussion at that time, which was also held at this university. And we, young people with ambitions to take over our parents' holdings, recognized in such internal discussions that a system is good, which provides for forcing those who did not wish to pass on to their successors to them. The aim was to make the right to receive an agricultural pension conditional on the transfer of the holding. It was our voice, including the young people who took over the farms. It is worth remembering that in 1997, 1999, but also between 2005 and 2007 and later changes to the Act on social insurance of farmers were made repeatedly and then such discussions were held. At that time in this House, we came to such a position that this is not yet the moment to liberalize these rules that it is still necessary to make the receipt of agricultural pensions conditional on the transfer of the holding. A prosthesis was used in one of these amendments, namely that it was possible to receive a farm pension in the case of a donation to a farm for children, i.e. in fact, from a practical point of view, the farm was most often run by either the pensioner who was still retired or worked on the farm of his children, or the children together with that pensioner worked on the farm. That's how it's been done so far. [[What if he didn't have kids?]] If he didn't have children, he couldn't get a pension. [[Exactly.]] That is why this is the moment when we should have such a discussion - and it is good that it is - and take a revision position on what was in the previous amendments where this change was not made. As a Polish People's Party, we also conducted this internal but external discussion in rural environments, which resulted in two projects that we have submitted in recent years. In the previous term and in the current term, the same for the purpose and principle of the project that we are considering today, i.e. enabling us to receive agricultural pensions while running the farm. And such projects with your marshals lie, in this term of office, one such project. Are there any doubts about these solutions and projects? Of course they are. I've met with farmers many times and watched two positions. The first position of those farmers who want to retire is identical to that position that we are taking today. The second position of young farmers who want to take over this farm not when they are 40 or 50 years old, but before that, is to continue to make it dependent on the transfer of holdings, i.e. the receipt of a pension. It seems that today there have been such changes in Polish agriculture, that this solution is a correct solution and in our projects we have proposed them and also in this project our position is positive and we will support this project in the vote. Of course, another discussion, which the rapporteur has already initiated today, on the proper valorisation of agricultural pensions, needs to be held that in many cases they should not be disgraceful to those farmers who have worked for decades in very difficult conditions in rural areas and today receive pensions that do not allow them to feel free and partnerly in society. In such a debate as the Polish People's Party we want to participate and we will support this (The Bell) valorization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak will present the position of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Paying a pension to a farmer without having to get rid of a farm is something that should work for years, even because it is important to respect the property of Poles. As a Confederation, we have been talking about this in principle since the beginning of our formation, and this is one of the programme points that we have assumed should make farmers finally feel taken seriously. I'm glad this project is in the Sejm. Recently, at one of the meetings in Mikołajki Pomorskie it was basically the main topic that I talked to farmers about, which is what after I retired. We must support agriculture, and that is why we are in favour of implementing what they have been demanding for years, namely the reforms of the KRUS, which will lead to the farmer being able to carry out his activities also in retirement, there will be no unpleasant consequences here. We want the Polish state to stimulate the willingness to work, but it helps all of us to build more prosperity so that those who want can also retire, especially in an important and strategic area such as agriculture. There must be no situation in which a farmer takes up training or broadening his qualifications, and in fact he may be punished by losing his entitlement to insurance in KRUS, because such situations have also taken place. Here was also the question of the amount of these pensions. It's also one of those things that are essentially related. These pensions are far too low today. Polish agriculture is this very important industry not only for Poland, but also perhaps for other countries soon, because as a result of what is happening behind our eastern border, in Ukraine, we see that as one of the largest exporters in the world Ukraine will probably not be able to deliver its products to many countries. He won't be able to sow the fields. Perhaps Poland should increase these efforts to replace Ukraine in these markets, because the countries they import are not usually able to produce themselves simply, so let us make sure that there is no hunger in the world. But for this to happen, you have to remember that projects like this can often go against what they want from us. The European Union through the European Green Deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u509	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The draft law presented by the government concerns changes in areas related to pensions, agricultural pensions. These rules include people from a very large social group estimated at over 1100 000. people, farmers and their families, and it is indeed necessary to agree that this is a project that is of high social importance. It provides for a number of modifications, and one of the most important changes seems to be that, once these provisions are adopted, an agricultural pensioner will not have to stop carrying out agricultural activities in order to receive a full benefit and at the same time will be obliged to pay an appropriate contribution. Following the rapporteur's statement, I would like to point out that the PiS, which ruled between 2005 and 2007, and the last six years under these rules, has been very firm and today calls them a communist relic. That's pretty interesting, because you had at least eight years to make this change, and that change wasn't. And I would like to thank the agricultural organisations in particular today, because only their integrated actions have led to de facto knee pushing through the resort of these changes. And the last few years have been uneven fights between agricultural organizations, which have been sent back by the PiS on several occasions. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I think that only an uncertain situation with regard to the results of the party polls, Mr President, has made this change possible. If it hadn't been for the neck-to-neck government ratings and assessments, these changes probably wouldn't have been accepted. These facts are worth mentioning here, because this thing is not right, if you are 8 years old and only when fear looks into your eyes do you make such decisions and try to hide it under a coat called a communist relic. [[What are you talking about, sir?]] There are also other changes, of course, except that these changes sober up the real picture of the problems of the Polish village: low pensions, dramatically increasing costs of agricultural production, expensive fuels, expensive fertilisers, and not keeping up with expensive buying prices. Today, we expect real action from the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's really time to get to work, it's time to stop pretending to be doing something, it's time to stop changing one minister to another. We expect concrete solutions, concrete proposals for the Polish countryside, because only then will farmers' work really be appreciated. [[What do you suggest?]] We will vote in favour of this project, but once again I appeal: do not blur the true image of the Polish village from the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What do you propose, I ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will present the position of the Kukiz Group15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Kukiz Wheels15 - Direct Democracy to present a position on the Act amending the Act on Insurance of Farmers. High Izbo! At the committee meeting, this draft law actually won the support of all the clubs and clubs. There wasn't a single voice to hold back. There wasn't a single vote against it. Very good. It is very good that, after all these years, we are finally changing this very unfair rule that he ordered farmers to get rid of their own workshop, that is, farms, if they wanted to retire. It's an event. No other social group had an obligation to get rid of their farm, their workshop if they wanted to receive a pension. And I think no one has any doubt that farmers have earned this retirement very hard by their work. Of course, we should talk about whether this pension must be so low, because really, compared to other benefits, agricultural pension is not a high pension. I would like to draw attention to something else, because this recipe has caused a lot of family tragedies. I think that some of your fellow Members have had problems in their offices, with which retired farmers came, that, after rewriting the land for children, these children were suddenly either selling or doing things they shouldn't have done with the gifted farm. It is a good thing that at the moment this control will remain in the hands of those who have earned this wealth. However, I would like to ask the Minister what has actually changed in the last 7 years, because I have been writing interpellations, writings for seven years to just change this bill and I have always heard whether I have read in answers that I cannot. I'm really glad you can change that right now. I wonder what circumstances have changed. At the same time, I hope that if something impossible could be changed, we will soon adopt a law on the national protein index, on agricultural chambers, and we will embrace farmers with the benefit of the law (the bell) called the Anti-Liquid Act, so that farmers are not exploited by dishonest loan companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u512	Thank you very much, sir. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. So far, 14 people have signed up. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? This is the moment. If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I only have one quick question. On the basis of estimates by the Ministry, what number of persons may be concerned by a provision which will allow the holding to be kept and the pension to be collected? And what area per year can this area be affected by the draft law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modern farm is nothing but a modern production company worth hundreds, thousands of zlotys, requiring proper regulation and reasonable government assistance. Therefore, a farmer must protect property rights the same as all other Poles, and it is not possible to force farmers to choose between being wealthy but lonely at the end of their lives, or become a poor family maintainer. You cannot condition the payment of pension benefits by getting rid of your entire life's achievements and further vegetation at the mercy or disfavor of your family. The proposed amendments should therefore be accepted. But the question is why it is only after seven years of your rule that ladies and gentlemen in Law and Justice come to the conclusion that this can be done. Are there any elections coming up? I would also like to ask about the question that farmers are asking me: Why are these pensions (the bell) so low? Is there any chance that if you've agreed to one thing, you'll agree to make these pensions higher? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are all well aware of the importance of regulating issues related to the confluence of agricultural insurance and the general social security system. Minister, in the event of the introduction of these statutory facilitations for persons entitled to an agricultural pension in terms of conditions for cessation of agricultural activity, I would ask for information on how many farmers can make use of this legislative solution in 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u518	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska in the Chamber. Then I would like to ask Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u519	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased that after the changes, farmers will not have to suspend their activities in order to receive a full pension. It's the right thing to do. So far, the state has forced them to make a difficult choice. But this opportunity must be used to discuss the amount of agricultural pensions. In 2020 the average pension paid out from KRUS was less than PLN 1400 gross. Minister, is this money that you can live with? All the more so in times of cost, when prices of all products and services are rising squarely. This is ridiculous. Retirement and pensioners receiving benefits from the Social Security Office receive on average almost 2.5 thousand. gross zloty. For a farmer, retirement is a dream. We cannot allow the situation when millions of older people in Polish villages have nothing to live for and have to choose whether to buy drugs or food every month. It is your duty that all pensioners in Poland can live a decent life after years of hard work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, when will you present solutions that will change this dramatic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u520	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, It's an important amendment, expected by farmers. However, as we discussed today at the joint committee meeting, another issue, very embarrassing, is 20 zlotys for one day for a farmer. It's true that compared to last year, they increased it by 100%. , from 10 to 20 PLN. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] It is true that for the COVID period it was 15 PLN, but these are the amounts that must be the subject of our concern and the future. Second, the lowest benefit - PLN 1338 but not for all, at 7% valorization, as it turns out. Many farmers visited our offices and expressed their disapproval of public information, which spoke about their law. I wanted to ask you about KRUS employees' salaries. This group has been demanding a raise for a long time. 40% out of them, especially those working (the bell) in field facilities, works for the lowest minimum wage. I know that there has been an agreement with trade unions, there is a separate regulation. But in the near future, how do the management of the Ministry and the management of the KRUS plan to improve the pay conditions for KRUS employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u522	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Ms Anita Sowinska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u523	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we read that the KRUS plans to direct about 600 senior farmers to turn medical rehabilitation tournaments. It's not a big number, but this rehabilitation is dependent on the money that you have, that's a quote. And that's not certain at all. In my opinion, the government's calculations on rehabilitation costs are wrong because the inflation rate of 3% was assumed in the estimation of the rate of payment per person per day. As we know, inflation is now 11% and production inflation is 20%. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: When will the government update this data and guarantee real rehabilitation funds for retired farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u524	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Marta Wcisło to the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u525	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Agricultural Pensions Act, which gives farmers the opportunity to retire, of course, after working for years, after an adequate period of work, without transferring the farm, without disposing of the farm, which has so far not been possible. My question is, why is it so late? We have repeatedly written interpellations, queries to make this change. Why not after seven years? Is it a tear-cracking event in connection with the price of fertilisers in connection with agricultural production? Or because the farmers went out into the streets and started pouring dung? [[Voice from the room: Where?]] My second question is, what happens when a farmer retires? Will he pay a pension or health contribution? Because I hear different opinions here. We have tabled amendments that have been rejected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Where'd you make the adjustments?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u526	Do not interfere with Members' statements. Mr Marek Dyduch. [[Lie!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u527	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to address Mr Telus. The breakthrough was then, as Gierek and ZSL introduced this law, because I will remind you that since the 1940s, 50s and 60s in Poland, farmers were fighting to be individual. Gierek introduced this law with ZSL, sanctioned individual agriculture. He said, "You are in Poland, the only thing you want... you have insurance, you have pensions and pensions if you give your land to the state. Today they can give it back wherever they want, but then it was a breakthrough. That's when we sanctioned... Not us, because I was a very young man back then, but then it was sanctioned. Today, however, there is a step forward and that must be respected. A real breakthrough today would be if out of 16 billion PLN were made from the state budget 32 billion PLN and increased by a second amount of pension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why would that be a breakthrough? Because if you say that this is a strategic area for Poland, it can put money on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u528	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about a very important bill. I see that more and more people are saying that they wanted to do it, but they haven't done it so far, so it's really good that we're doing it. I hope that all Members will support this bill. But I would like to ask, Minister, how many people will be immediately covered by this bill. So we're gonna find out how many people didn't retire, even though they had full age rights. So this is a very important solution, which I suspect will now help several or tens of thousands of Polish farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u530	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u531	The good news is that the Ministry is preparing a revision of the KRUS Act in order to allow farmers to obtain 7% of the value they receive from the KRUS pensioners. So I have a question for you. When it can be expected that these works will be completed and whether, as a result, the ZUS retirees received a 7% increase From 1 March and such a 7% increase was announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki for all - there will be compensation for retired farmers also from 1 March by 7% To meet this condition from March 1st? How do you see it? This is worth considering because we want to be honest and we want to be truthful in these announcements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's one other thing. The talk here was that young farmers had to be transferred to farms. As you know, there was a motto at the time: big is beautiful, and everything was done to make such a surface restructuring of farms to destroy small and medium-sized farms so that only large farms could be created. That was the fashion back then. The fact that pensions were linked to the obligation to give up the holding was one way to achieve this. Mr. Marshal, there is one very important issue, there is a very important problem that has been reported to the parliamentary offices. Some of the village's pensioners received welfare allowances. Since 2018, a law has entered into force which has led to the automatic addition of care to those who are 75 years old. Some farmers didn't know that. These are old people, often blind. They didn't know they were gonna give up that welfare allowance. What's going on? After 4-5 years, they are ordered, mostly municipalities say, to return this supplement collected during the previous years. Didn't the municipality know at the time that such a law had entered into force and that when the pensioner turns 75, the payment of this supplement must be discontinued? Is there any way we can deal with this problem, e.g. introduce solutions that will result in the remission of such late, unjustly collected additives by farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u532	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Beata Arrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Act are long-awaited solutions by farmers, especially those who have been connected to the ground for years, because that's what they most often say about their attachment. Despite reaching retirement age, they often cannot stop running a farm because they have not yet had to pass it on to anyone. The possibility of collecting the full amount of the pension is a significant improvement in the lives of many people who sometimes run small several hectare farms alone. Changes in the law are an expression of respect for the Polish farmer, often an elderly person who has worked and yet respects his life's achievements and traditions. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he evaluates the changes made to this law with regard to the work of the Joint Committees on Agriculture and Social Policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Zielińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question goes slightly beyond the scope of the law, which is the subject of debate, but is closely related to the interests of farmers and the Polish village. An alternative to the natural gas imported from Russia, which stopped sailing to Poland this morning, can be biogas and biomethane produced in the Polish countryside. In the opinion of food waste specialists available on the Polish market, we could already produce and pump 8 billion m into the network today. Minister, is the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development working on solutions that would facilitate the production of green gas in the Polish countryside? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Minister would prefer to reply in writing, I would also be grateful for such an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u536	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u537	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur because it is important that this sounds like the joint committee meeting. Which political group initiated changes in agricultural insurance? Did similar projects consist of other groups, e.g. Poland 2050, Left, PSL or Platform? And second question. It fell from that speaker that the Civic Platform applied for this law, which was rejected by the Law and Justice Club. Is that true or is that another lie that came out of that podium? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Another lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u538	Thank you very much. We've completed a series of questions. Now I ask Minister Anna Gembicka to answer and, in the second place, Mr Telus would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u539	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the number of persons concerned is concerned, the possibility of retiring without disposing of the holding is concerned, at this point in time That's about 31 grand. people and of course for the future will be all people, all farmers who will enter the retirement age. As regards the remaining issues covered by the Act, i.e. those about fugitives involved in military service, that's already 100,000. the persons concerned. Of course, in addition to this, we have provided additional solutions to allow agricultural pensioners to benefit from rehabilitation. It will also be another group that will benefit from the solutions contained in this law. As has already been said, we are working at this point on the rules on valorisation and on the system itself and the question of the amount of the basic pension. I would also like to stress that any increase in basic pension involves an increase in contributions. This needs to be taken. We will certainly be considering this issue in the preparation of legislation. I wanted to stress that at this point, the really minimal... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u540	Excuse me, Minister. Can we ask the honourable fellow Members of the Left to silence the discussion so that the Minister can finish? [[Sorry, sorry, sorry.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: At this point, the real minimum agricultural pension is PLN 1338.44 gross. As regards the increase in the amount of sickness benefit that has also been raised here, this also involves raising the contributions to farmers who are currently paying them. So that, as I said, all this requires a certain consideration of pros and cons. As regards salaries, wages in the KRUS, one agreement has already been reached, another trade union meeting is held next week and we are working to provide additional resources for next year. As regards the question of paying pension contributions after retirement, as the President said, at the committee meeting she was on the part of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, on the part of Mrs Nolas, the amendment tabled on the abolition of the requirement to pay contributions after retirement. We have accepted this amendment, so that it will no longer be required. As regards the welfare allowance which is paid by the municipalities, I would like to say that KRUS, when granting the care allowance, informs the municipality of the grant of the benefit, i.e. there may have been some oversight from the municipalities, because such information is received from us. As far as biogas is concerned, we are looking very closely at this subject. Today, this topic was also raised during the meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki, because we also see as a resort a potential further source and another possibility of becoming independent of gas supplies from Russia. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is appointed a team for: biogas. We hope that, together with the Ministry of Climate Affairs, we will be able to develop some facilitations and, on the other hand, we are also talking about a system of financing for such investments. I would also like to refer to the allegations of why now and why not before. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be honest with you, this sounds a little hypocritical to me, because I will no longer list all the parties that have raised it here, but also since 1990, when these regulations were in force, you have had the opportunity to change them. Such proposals have not been made. We are finally ending this requirement that is very harmful to farmers. I am glad, however, that there is broad support for this solution, because it really is very expected by farmers. We hope that this law can be transposed as soon as possible so that these solutions enter into force as soon as possible and that farmers can benefit from them. Let me just add that this law also regulates the issues of fugitives from insurance titles with ZUS. This is another response to farmers' demands. It is also a question of the use by farmers of pensioners of medical rehabilitation, also of enabling insured persons, who are carers of disabled persons, to use tournaments of regeneration. Of course, we are aware that there are still a lot of challenges in terms of agricultural pensions, including the regulation of fugitives from insurance titles, which occur between the Social Security Office and the CRUs. We're working on it. We want the rules on valorization and these fugitives to be adopted this year, so that they can apply from next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, President Robert Telus, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u541	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm very surprised. First of all, we need to correct the lies that fell from this podium, because we cannot allow lies to fall from the pulpit in the Polish Parliament and, above all, what hurts me very much, from the lips of the women of the Civic Platform. The first lie was uttered by one of the messengers who no longer exist, and who said that the Platform was making amendments and someone rejected them. No one has ever tabled amendments to this law except for the Law and Justice and no one has rejected the amendments of the Civic Platform. This is a lie and as rapporteur, referring to all your authority, that's what I'm talking about. The second lie came from the mouth of the Member who represented the Civic Coalition Club and who said that it was the Law and Justice that raised the retirement age. I hope that Poles remember who raised the retirement age and who did not listen to protesters at all. 2 million signatures were thrown into the basket and retirement age - I remind all Poles once again, as well as the Member who tried to lie from this speaker - raised the Civic Platform together with the Polish People's Party. And she raised that age to female farmers from 55 to 67 years old, which is 12 years old. If anyone doesn't know that it was, look in the bill. Of course, there was a deadline there that since the beginning of 2016, but it was registered in the Act. We changed it, we took it back. It is the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party - I regret that, sir - you have raised the retirement age by writing it in the bill. Twelve years ago, you wanted to raise that age for the women of the agricultural community. These are the lies that fell here today from the podium that I want to correct. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Many times the question has been, why now. You know, ladies and gentlemen, why? Because we would like you to stop driving to the Polish village by getting votes from the Polish village and promising to change it again. We changed that. Mr Małecki asked who submitted the project. No one has submitted such a project except the Law and Justice. It was we who submitted the project - Law and Justice, the United Right - which this communist relic withdrew. This is our project. [[Now I'm gonna have to correct it.]] Why now? That's why, to finally cut it, to end this communist relic that was introduced. There was also a historical statement here, Mr Maliszewski from PSL said about history. I agree, yes, it was a story, but it must also be remembered. A member of the Left also spoke about history. Yes, it must be admitted that Gierek and ZSL introduced this case to the KRUS, but it must also be recalled, as we speak of history, that Gierek is Breznev and that Breznev is Putin's teacher. And today, just at a time when the war is going on in Ukraine, it is important to remember that Russia was in charge with PZPR and ZSL in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's the rest of the story, too. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] [[Voice from the hall: Too much alcohol in these hours.]] I know you're in pain. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I know it hurts, but the Left is the heirs of the PZPR. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you drinking there?]] And PZPR read it... [[Voice from the room: Your advisor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u542	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u543	I still have time, Marshal. I still have time. Read: Brezhnev and read: Putin. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u544	Mr President, if you are not speaking on the subject, I draw your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u545	What do you mean, "not about it"?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u546	Not that you're talking about, because what does Brezhnev have to do with farm pensions? [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u547	Marshal, if you don't see a connection, I'll remind you. It was said by a fellow Member from the Left that in the days of Gierek...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u548	Mr. Chairman, allow me...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u549	If in the days of Gierek, then Poland was under the regime of the Soviet Union, and this is Breżniew.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u550	Mr. Chairman, I'll tell you as a historian...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u551	Of course it hurts you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u552	...that Mr Dyduch told the whole truth... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...because in 1977, insurance was introduced for farmers who, thanks to this reform, began to have pensions. They didn't before.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u553	Of course, Mr. Marshal, and did I say...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u554	So Mr Dyduch was right that it was a breakthrough (Applause) and what is happening now is just a step in the right direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u555	Well, did I say that Mr Dyduch was not telling the truth? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He was telling the truth. [[Voice from the hall: But Brezhneva...]] There was Gierek, and Gierek was a time when Poland was under the regime of the Soviet Union. [[Voice from the hall: But where was Brezhnev?]] In the Radzic Union, Brezhnev ruled, and Brezhnev was Putin's teacher. That's the further truth of what you said. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But...]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you drinking there?]] Now, back to the questions that have come up... [[Voice from the hall: Too much alcohol.]] Ladies and gentlemen, which one of you is accusing me of drinking? I'll report it to the ethics committee. [[But who said that?]] You just did, sir. You said it. If you're accusing me of this, I'm about to go to the ethics committee. [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare.]] [[I didn't hear you. I didn't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u556	Mr. President, you're off the subject again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u557	No, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u558	If you want to build your speech on Brezhnev and Putn, that is not the subject of today's debate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u559	Okay, Mr. Marshal, but you're also a witness that a member of the Left accused me of being under the influence of alcohol.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u560	No, he didn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u561	He just said that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u562	In my opinion, he asked you to continue your statement ad rem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u563	But that's what the envoy just said, marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u564	He didn't judge you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u565	Please, Marshal, pay your attention because this is an accusation that I'm consumed... [[What do you think of the breathalyzer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u566	I ask you to continue your statement in substance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u567	I'll continue. I will pay no attention to what the Left Member says, and I will continue. As regards the matter of the amount, because several times it was alleged that the amount was low, yes, of course we would like it to be higher, but we remember that in 2015 this amount amounted to about PLN 800, PLN 820 and at the moment it amounts to PLN 1400. This is, ladies and gentlemen, how much? 70%, 60% More. It was 800 zlotys, right now it's almost 1400 zlotys, and that's the difference. That's not enough, you also have to add 13 pensions and 14 pensions that weren't there. [[Applause]] Therefore, if you are accusing, my dear fellow Members, that this is too low, I just want to remind you. A member of the Left spoke of 20 PLN per sick day. Yeah, but it was less than 10 zlotys a sick day. Yes, it was, and you have to remember that too. Second thing. There was also a matter of why now. Ladies and gentlemen, you have often traveled to the countryside, promising to handle the very pension that farmers will be able to receive, and the CSR issues, the pension allowance for CSR firefighters. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, how many times did Mr PSL or the Civic Platform go to the village and say, "We will change this today?" You've never changed that. You've had a long time. We're the ones who changed it, we're the ones who gave the firefighters the pension allowance as well. We've given firefighters the pension allowance and that's what we need to remember. You have to remember the truth that we did it, and right now you're trying to hook up with it in some way. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, back to this whole project, I'd like to say that it's a project that's expected. It is a relic of communism... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...just as I said, the relic of communism, one of the last relics of communism that we are overthrowing right now. We are overthrowing him because we know that communism is the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Communism reigned in 1989.]] ...is Russia, it's Putin, it's the Left who's sitting in the Seym today and laughing. But you are the heirs of Russia... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] ...and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics... [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] You are their heirs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Rest, rest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u568	The discussion is closed... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to close the discussion, Madam Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 30 seconds. [[Good.]] [[But I didn't mention anyone's name.]] There's no need to replace it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u569	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'm here about the corrigendum. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, To accuse someone of lying, one must first of all be sure that one knows the rules and tells the truth. Thus: in 2012 the pension age rules were amended, but for the female farmer. For example, the retirement age was raised, i.e. it increased every 3 months. A woman who was 67 years old (The Bell) would have reached retirement age in 2039. There was a recipe that said that a female farmer could retire at the age of 55 and a male at the age of 60. This article hasn't been changed. You just changed it in 2017. [[Mr. Marshal, I must.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u570	No, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u571	Mr. Speaker! Please read the rules and don't accuse anyone of lying. Thank you. [[Then I'll answer you right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u572	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'm just a little bit of a correction. First of all, I don't know when you went to school. [[Voice from the room: I don't think so.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I suspect at about the same time as me, and that was the time when Gierek's portraits were hanging in class. Gierek is Brezhnev, and Brezhnev is Putin. That doesn't discredit you as a Member, I think. And I don't think you're denying that school education. That's one thing. Secondly, when you apply to the committee, make it precise. It's about whether or not there was a charge that you were under the influence of alcohol... [[Yes.]] ...or that you were in a position that indicated that you were under the influence of alcohol. [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] Because you were provoking your speech. That's the fundamental difference. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And the third case. As far as the corrigendum is concerned, you were saying, and I'm sure you can't lie here. So you lied about the fact that there was no project in this case. The project of the Polish People's Party was in the previous term and is in this term. He wasn't in session. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u574	Thank you very much for the correction. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the main changes to this project ensures that retired farmers will not have to stop farming in order to receive a full benefit from the CRUs. Issues related to the confluence of agricultural insurance titles and the general social security system will be dealt with. One of the comments submitted by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers concerned the absence of a proposal to resolve insurance cases in the CRUS. This is a situation where a farmer reaches his retirement age and has 90% premium periods in KRUS, i.e. 90 quarters and at the same time has a 5-year insurance period in ZUS. The farmer can then retire from the general scheme, and from the farm fund he will have a small amount added for 20 years of payment of contributions. The proposal for amendments is a pension calculated proportional to the period worked, assuming 100% the amount of the pension obtained for 25 years of premium periods and not, as is currently calculated, i.e. indicators. Note has not been taken into account due to the consequences of the reconstruction of the entire social security scheme for farmers, in particular the development of new rules for determining the amount of all pension benefits. Minister! Doesn't this law also rebuild the pension system? Is the proposal put forward by the national council correct? Do you see the need to amend these provisions? Is work being done to introduce these changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u576	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018 to agree by the Sejm to be held liable for the offence by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus (print No 2120). [[But, Marshal, may I?]] Mr... [[May I?]] No, no. We're here... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You had a time you didn't use. [[There was a corrigendum about me...]] The debate cannot be held in this way that it will be ad rem to ad rem. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Unless it's for Brezhnev.]] I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u577	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on 2120 printing on the application of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018 to the Sejm to be held liable for the offence of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. On 7 January 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above request to the Rules of Procedure Committee on the basis of the provisions of the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The Commission, after considering this request at its meetings on 7 and 23 March pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator proposes the adoption of the application of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. The chairman of the committee signed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u578	I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. In connection with this point, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus expressed her willingness to speak. Therefore, I invite you to the grandstand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 26, 2018 I hung children's shoes at the gate of the church of Toruń by day. I did it as part of Baby Shoes Remember's social international action. This action has been taking place quite regularly in many countries around the world since 2011, and the aim of this action is to highlight solidarity with the victims of paedophiles and to call on the hierarchs of the Catholic Church to settle sexual harassment cases by clergymen. Tonight's late evening, we are discussing whether I should be denied parliamentary immunity for participating in this very social international action - immunity, which I am not particularly attached to, but which I often use when they are discriminated against, harassed or threatened persons, Polish and Polish people, in our country. Tonight we're discussing this because the chief police officer at the request of the Attorney General said I committed a crime, which means I hung baby boots on the fence. They've seen this crime and we're debating it today. Let me remind you: these children's shoes are symbolic international social tribute to children raped and sexually abused by priests of the Catholic Church, by priests of oppressors, priests of aggressors whose actions are systematically concealed by the institutions of the Church. What if they're hidden? E.g. In such a way that if the Church learns about sexual crime, she does not report it to the prosecution, although she should. What does he do? He hides a priest, moving him from parish to parish, or guarantees him a great place in the so-called. a home for retired priests. These shoes, which I suspended on August 26, 2018, are about to remind you of such situations. But these shoes are also to be symbolically a remorse for bishops who have taken and continue to participate actively in the hiding of paedophile priests. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you: the episcopate itself presented statistics in which it admitted that according to their statistics only 25% of the perpetrators were expelled from the clergy. Only 25%. That's 75%. molesters and rapists continue to perform Masses, preach moralizing sermons to people, care for altar boys, or conduct religious classes in schools, for our children. Ladies and gentlemen! I hung those boots. not only in Toruń, but I also suspended them at another time in the Vatican, in Warsaw and in other cities. In terms of exposing pedophilia crimes concerning the Church, I didn't just suspend my shoes as part of social action, but I did a lot of other things. I was, for example. in February 2019 with Pope Francis and together with Anna Frankowska and Agata Didusko-Ziglewska, we submitted the first such report on the crimes concerning bishops. In the report we presented 24 names of bishops. And note: nine bishops have already been found guilty by the Vatican. I am convinced that others will also hear those words, that they are guilty. What's more, I put together draft laws in the Sejm that we can investigate and which should be prosecuted because crimes of paedophilia are the worst crimes committed on vulnerable children. This is e.g. a proposal to set up an independent commission on the investigation of pedophilia offences, on the example of such committees as have arisen in other countries. This is also the case for example. a project that has been lying for a year and which eliminates the limitation of sexual offences. That would really make things easier, which I'm about to say. The state has yet to be appointed in the last term of office by the state commission on the investigation of pedophilia crimes, and even this imperfect committee is simply saying that in the matter of prosecuting ecclesiastical pedophilia, it is actually helpless and helpless, because so this commission, the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, has been designed. You designed it so the Church wouldn't get hurt. That is why I have submitted another project that gives instruments to this committee so that it can finally act. But for now, I'm working with this committee, and this cooperation is really fine. I've submitted 41 notifications to this committee. Nine of them are reports of cases that are pending, but 32 cases are matters that concern bishops. What did the committee do? The state's pedophilia committee considered that these cases should be dealt with by the D.A.'s office and, on my application, submitted such requests to the D.A.'s office. But what did the Attorney's Office do? I think you all know the answer. Nothing. Because Ziobra's office, instead of chasing pedophiles in cassocks, sent a letter to the regional prosecutors, recommending that in matters related to pedophilia be gentle - but not to the victims, but to the Church. I am also a co-author, together with Agata Diduszko-Ziglewska, a map of the church pedophilia. This map was created in October 2018. More than 12 million people have visited her. On the map we describe almost 1000 different cases. Like what? 118 cases that were brought to an end - priests were put in prison for their actions. 150 cases that are pending. On the map we also marked nearly 600 victims - girls and boys. On this map is also described 38 stories about bishops who did nothing to help the victims, but also covered for paedophiles priests. There is also a completely new category, i.e. 48 cases of other types of clergy violence against children. But the worst part, ladies and gentlemen, in all this, is that this is the tip of the iceberg, because most sexual crimes are never revealed, and people who are hurt in childhood often need decades and psychological support to name out loud what happened to them. Sometimes they don't talk about it at all, they never talk about it. Some of these stories sounded at the meetings of my parliamentary team in the last term. There were six such meetings. These were the first such meetings in the Polish Parliament, not in Poland at all, when for the first time the victims of paedophiles spoke loudly and clearly here, in the Seym, about their suffering, because they had no place before, no one asked them about it, no one cared about them. I speak and speak loudly about what happens to children raped by priests, what happens to those people who report matters to bishops. Bishops wave their hand and e.g. They say, "I don't remember anything, I didn't hear anything." That's why I'm talking about this out loud because I think everyone who sexually exploits children should be punished. It doesn't matter if we're talking about a priest or if we're talking about someone else. And they should not be judged by the Vatican, but by independent and secular courts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, paedophiles are no different from paedophiles performing other professions. The baker's paedophile isn't moved to another bakery, it's a court-martial. The teacher's paedophile isn't moved to another school. We're court-martialed. We're not moving a pedophile actor to another theater, we're putting him on trial. But the priest's paedophile is being transferred from the parish to the parish, and he should be brought to justice. In the meantime, you want to put me in court, the person who exposes these cases. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not afraid of court. If necessary, I will go to court as accused, accused of reminding bishops that covering for pedophilia is just as disgusting as raping children. I'll go to court if I have to, and with details I'll tell you why I stood, stand, and always stand on the side of the victims. I'm gonna go to court because I didn't do anything wrong and I don't feel guilty at all. Finally, I was, I am, and I will always be on the side of the victims. I'll be on the side of the victims, not the side of the oppressors. I have a few minutes left, so I'm gonna use them to say thank you. to my club that supports me here. Thank you so much. I would also like to thank all Internet users and Internet users, all those who are sympathetic not only to me, because immunity, as I said, is not something that I care about terribly much. I use it when it is necessary to defend the weaker, the discriminated and the bullied. That's when I actually use that immunity. But what's more important is to stand behind those who aren't Members or Messengers, but they're doing exactly the same thing. These people don't have immunity, they can't defend themselves, they don't have a speaker, they can't talk about it. They are often condemned, bullied and discriminated against. And I would very much ask all of you to always stand up for these people, activists and activists, who also honestly and clearly very often in such situations speak straight as it is, saying that the institution of the Church is an institution that systematically hides paedophiles priests and does everything to sweep these matters under the rug and simply not explain them. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as there is such an opportunity, and I know that such an opportunity will be, and in the near future, one of the first things I will do will be to get the commission to explain pedophilia issues to be established, to be an independent committee and to clarify all matters. I will also point out that every bishop who is now not accountable to the court will stand before this court. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u580	Thank you very much, Member. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Marek Palarczyk submitted by paweł Berg and mariusz Mazurka of 13 November 2018, supplemented on 21 January 2019, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Sławomir Nitras (print No 2118). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u581	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs, in print No 2118, on the application by Marek Palarczyk, a private prosecutor, submitted by Paweł Berg and Mariusz Mazurka, of 13 November 2018, supplemented on 21 January 2019, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On 29 March 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Act on Implementation of the mandate for consideration. The Commission, having considered this request at its meeting on 23 March 2020, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator proposes to reject the application of the private prosecutor Mark Palarczyk of 13 November 2018 to consent by the Sejm to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u582	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. But I do not see Mr Sławomir Nitras in the room. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 27 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? [[Yes, Mrs. Ula.]] Then we'll wait patiently. Can we get started now? We're just gonna wait a little longer, right? [[A moment for photojournalists.]] Even Mrs Wanda Nowicka is not ready to make a statement now because she is posing for the photo. [[Voice from the room: He'll be right there.]] But I think that this opportunity can be used by Mr Konrad Frysztak. We'd like to invite you to the podium. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, we'd like to thank you for driving well.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Sir, two minutes is enough? Three minutes. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u583	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, On 29 April 1922, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers decided to concentrate arms orders for the Polish Army in state-owned enterprises. It was at that time that the Central Management Board of Military Works was established in the Ministry of Military Affairs. One of the first plants subordinate to the Central Management Board of Military Works was the weapons factory in Radom. The new plant was located on the grounds of the Mariackie farm, which was limited by the streets of Młodananowska and Mariacka and the railway track. Together with the factory, apartment blocks and public buildings were created, which gave rise to new settlements in Radom and permanently changed the city's landscape and character. The weapons factory permanently entered Radom into a group of industrial cities, which began to develop and attract new investors. The plant started producing weapons for the Polish Army in 1927. Since then Radom has become one of the most important defense centers in the Second Republic of Poland. In the '30s. By including Radom in the Central Industrial District, the arms factory was expanded and increased its production capacity. One of the most famous products of the factory in Radom became Vis guns. It is about this weapon produced serially since 1936 that you can hear in an insurgent song about boys from the Umbrella who have visas on tigers. The period of German occupation was extremely difficult for the plant and its employees. The Nazis brutally forced the factory crew to produce weapons for the Wehrmacht. Many factory workers have been involved in the conspiracy and fight against the occupier on many levels. Thanks to extraordinary courage, the crew of the weapons factory was able to carry parts from the plant to the visa. The guns were used by the heroic soldiers of the National Army Armed Fighting Union. Unfortunately, in 1942, the German invader discovered the heroic activities of Radom and the inhabitants of Radom. The Nazis had mass arrests in the city and lost 50 people by hanging. One of the gallows was set up in front of the main factory building. The end of World War II brought looting machines, which were part of the equipment of the entire plant. The factory was brought to a complete ruin, and after the end of the war the decision of the PRL authorities was rebuilt, although unfortunately it also gained a communist patronage. Since 1951, the weapons factory in Radom has been renamed Metal Plant im. General Walter. The next years are the time of the plant's development. It was in Radom that it was produced, among others. AK rifles, P-64 guns, PM-63 machine guns and AKM rifles. Metal plants have become the most important factory in the city and in the whole region. There's no family in Radom where at least one person didn't work at Walter's. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bets have become not only a key place of work for thousands of Radoms, but also a symbol of the struggle for freedom and independence. It was from metal plants that the heroic march to the Central Committee of PZPR in Radom began on June 25, 1976. The protest of workers against price increases, which were introduced by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, was brutally suppressed by the ZOMO. Health trails, prison sentences have become a permanent part of the history of the factory in Radom. Another important, though insanely difficult moment in the history of the plant was the 1990s and the socio-economic transformation. It was then, in 1999, once again the workers went out on the streets, this time in Warsaw, where they were asking for fair treatment and fair development of the city and their workplace. Metal Archer's plants had to deal with financial problems. As a result, the establishment was declared bankrupt in November 2000. It is worth recalling that on June 30, 2000, before the bankruptcy, Zakłady Metalowe Łukłek and the Industrial Development Agency set up a company called Fabryka BroniŁucznik Radom. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u584	Mr President, you are way out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u585	I'm almost done, Marshal. The new company started slowly develop, but over time it became clear that success will depend on the construction of a modern plant along with the production line. Thanks to the decisions of the government of the Civic Platform and PSL and the enormous efforts of Ewa Kopacz, Marshal of the Sejm, and later also the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, and Radosław Witkowski, Member, and the current President of Radom, in Radom at ul. Grobicki was founded one of the state-of-the-art weapons manufacturing plants, which mainly serves soldiers of the Polish Army and Polish uniformed services. The opening ceremony took place on 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u586	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u587	Mr. Marshal, this is important. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u588	I know it's important. Those are the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u589	The entire complex of the old plant is now empty. Unfortunately, during the campaign in 2018, politicians of Law and Justice, including Jadwiga Emilewicz, then Minister of Entrepreneurship, Anna April, Andrzej Czestowniak, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, then candidate of Law and Justice for President, and Adam Bielan, then Senator, promised that the factory's former headquarters would be revitalized. The development agency has not yet announced the tender and has not started this investment, and it has been almost four years since that declaration. Construction hasn't started. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of April, two thousand twenty...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u590	Mr President, you are exaggerating. Unfortunately, I have to interrupt you already.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u591	Mr. Marshal, last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u592	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u593	Once again thanking you for the decisions made by the hundred years that have permanently entered into the history of my city, Radom, I would like to ask you to remember these people and all former employees of the weapons factory, currently operating in a modern factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u594	Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u595	Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u596	I've allowed you to extend it because your marshal has started as if you were speaking, but I'm going to follow the time now. [[Thank you so much, and I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u597	High Izbo! My statement concerns the condition of the shelters and the concealment, as well as the legal status of these facilities. In view of the situation in Ukraine and the sharp increase in tension at our eastern borders, I came to local governments in my constituency, i.e. in Upper Silesia, with questions about shelters for civil use. Feedback has shown that cities and municipalities do not have effective legal tools to monitor, finance and require owners to maintain civil protection facilities. As the Mayor of Pyskowice points out, the regulations do not specify bodies to supervise and determine their technical status. This prevents real identification of the number of shelters in the city. The objects are in a deplorable state and do not even meet these non-binding and outdated requirements for shelters. Therefore, e.g. The local government of Pyskowic abstained from the action informing about the location and capacity of protective facilities for concern about the safety of residents and residents. The Tarnowskie Góra government asked the Silesian voivode to take action to improve the technical condition of the shelters. In Tarnowskie Góry, which are the seat of the county and have more than 60 thousand. Inhabitants, shelters registered by the city office will accommodate slightly more than 2 000. persons. Moreover, despite the ongoing war in Ukraine, local authorities have not received tasks to verify and improve the quality and functionality of protective structures. It is a reckless omission, which may be in the event of an unlikely but potentially spilled armed conflict on our country, putting millions of citizens and citizens at risk of loss of life and health. Worse still, at the moment there is no law or regulation that would regulate these issues, as the last one would have ceased to function in 2004. There is a need for legal action on this issue and I will certainly take such action on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u598	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u599	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The 190 railway line connects the cities of Bielsko-Biała and Cieszyn. Running through picturesque areas of the Białyskie and Cieszyński districts, it connects about 300,000. residents. Unfortunately, as a result of many years of neglect, this line on the Bielsko-Biała - Jumps section requires urgent renovation. The residents are looking at overgrown tracks, broken and stolen power lines and degenerate infrastructure, and wondering how such destruction could have been allowed. The local governments around the Beskidza Agglomeration decided to revitalize this line. An application for 85% of the cost of work has been submitted to the Railway Plus programme. Unfortunately, it turned out that the PiS government has done what has been happening to infrastructure projects in our region for a long time. Here you can recall an example of the Beskid Way of Integration, with which it happened exactly the same. The project of revitalisation of railway line 190 was placed under a line and did not receive this funding. It's a line that has a lot of potential. With a sufficient number of train pairs on a regular basis, it can be a strong and stable element of the communication system in the Beskydy agglomeration. The launch of connections on this line will certainly have a positive impact on the economy of our region and will facilitate access to work, science, culture and entertainment. Unfortunately, because of the decision of law and justice politicians, our region has been deprived of this opportunity. In this case, I will speak with the interpellation and seek money during committee meetings. However, today I expect Members and Senator of Law and Justice from our region to take decisive action to obtain support for the revitalisation of line 190 as a result of the possible resignation of the beneficiaries of this programme. I consider it unacceptable that rail connections are being closed down and that the funding for railway projects in our region is limited in order to start connections and finance jobs in other regions. It so happens that the funds always go to the same places and our region is overlooked. The question to law and justice politicians is why they are so ineffective that our region is ignored. I assure you that I will be watching closely the actions taken and will inform the people of our region about them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u600	Mr Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All Poland is intensively involved in helping refugees from Ukraine. Everyone wants to make it easier to get across the border, provide food, medication, and overnight accommodation. I myself have traveled several thousand kilometers, helping with humanitarian transports. In just two months almost 3 million refugees arrived in Poland. At this moment, about 10-15 thousand enter Poland daily from Ukraine. people looking for security. This is the largest migration since World War II. There are terrible things going on in Ukraine that should see the whole world, which nobody should go by indifferently. Massive faces in the Podkiev Bucha became one of the terrible symbols of this war and a testimony of the truth about the Russian army. Unfortunately, at the same time when on the border with Ukraine we see officers helping mothers with children to warm up, to rest or to eat, just a few hundred kilometers away the same mothers with the same several years old or dozens of years old - even the children of a few days are pushed back into the forests on the Belarusian side. There are no millions of refugees on this border. There's no TV cameras in there anymore. There are no reception points and there's never been any reception points. Unfortunately, there is an increasing shortage of volunteers on this border. And yes, there are also men as needing support as Women with children. Once I thought that as soon as television stopped showing refugees from Syria, Afghanistan or Iraq on the Belarusian-Polish border, the services would help them by not having to play the PiS propaganda of the pseudosonic state anymore. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and pushbacks are everyday. There are currently less than 300 people on the Belarusian side. 300 exhausted, on the verge of life and death. That's what he goes across the border with Ukraine in half an hour. People are being terrorized, tortured, forced by the Belarusian side to illegally cross our border. The Polish party applies another Pushback to them, instead of granting asylum, which they ask for almost every time. I try to intervene myself when I get more recordings of crying, hungry, often tortured people on the brink of endurance, asking for asylum, pictures of documents or locations usually after pushback. I often bounce like a wall with a total lack of empathy or with the telephone of the Border Guard spokesperson turned off. Recently, a Syrian boy decided to return to Belarus, having had enough of trying to get to Poland, and to do so, he cut the wire with scissors. He wanted to go back to Minsk to live, to hide anywhere but be out in the woods. While cutting barbed wire, he was caught by a Belarusian border guard. When he told them what he was up to, the same scissors the guards cut off his fingers. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus.]] This is the reality of people who have no choice but to be devastated. In the woods lies the bodies of those who can't stand it. If it were not for forest people, volunteers who devote their lives, time and money, often exposed to legal consequences, probably most of these 300 people would also be unknown to us, indifferent and sooner or later dead. In the 21st century, terrible things happen near us. I hope that we will finally stop dividing refugees into two categories of people and will not allow meaningless deaths that can be avoided so easily. In my own, but also on behalf of volunteers, I ask you to help people who do not manage (the Bell) without us, because someone used them as a living form of manipulation. The regimes are bad, not the people these regimes use. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u602	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Together and beyond political divisions, we have adopted a record budget of 3% GDP for the Minister of National Defence, for the defence of our country. I hope some of this money goes to Podlaskie Voivodeship. Together with the mayor of Bielsk Podlaski, Jarosław Borowski, we call for the creation of a unit of the Territorial Defence Army in the area of the city. The town is located 30 km in a straight line from the Polish-Belarusian border. The creation of the unit would improve the security of the Podlaskie voivodship and reduce the sense of danger among the inhabitants of Bielsk Podlaskie and surrounding towns. Mayor Jarosław Borowski assures that the city has the appropriate infrastructure to create a unit for the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. The municipal enterprise has a free area on the outskirts of Bielsk Podlaski. The area is armed, illuminated, to a plot with an area of more than 2.6 hectares leads the asphalt road. The plot is attractive and fixed. It's in the shape of a rectangle. There's a building on it for adaptation. There are also worlds under which you can store e.g. Military equipment. The creation of a Territorial Defence Army unit in Bielsk Podlaski may have a positive impact not only on raising the level of security of the local population, but could also be useful for the development of the village. In Poland, we are struggling with demographics. Bielsk Podlaski was recognized by specialists from the Polish Academy of Sciences as a city losing socio-economic functions due to demography. Mayor Borowski is taking action to stop young people in the region. The Ministry is looking forward to examining the application for the establishment of a military class in the School Complex. Podlasie Land. The idea of creating the above class has a positive opinion of the Education Curatorium in Bialystok and the Provincial Military Staff in Bialystok. We hope that since September young people will be able to learn and train in defence. In addition, the creation of a WOT unit in the city can contribute to halting the mass migration of young people from this and the surrounding towns to larger urban centres. It is worth mentioning that in Bielsk Podlaski there is a Military Command of Supplements. This would greatly facilitate the recruitment of those willing to join the new WOT unit. I particularly ask the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak to support this project. In addition, today we have had the pleasure of visiting the centre of the Veteran's National Defence Committee and I appeal to all the Members who organize tours in the Sejm that you can also come to this place by coach. There is a place where you can put this coach and the veterans will show you around and tell you about what happened on the missions they suffered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u604	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 63 days ago, the world turned its eyes on Ukraine and what is happening beyond our eastern border. Looking at the defence of the state has taken on a completely different dimension. The Homeland Defense Act has shown that it is necessary to change, not only by caring for the army, but also for equipment. When we tried to print the bill at the defense committee's meeting, we proposed a change that talked about 50% expenditure on military, technical and equipment equipment was spent in Poland. I'm sure today we all realize that we're not able to do that. But after yesterday's visit, whether in Archer or in Mesko with the defence committee, I am convinced, as probably most of the members of our committee, that the Polish Armed Group must develop. Today, these plants are mostly located on the eastern wall of Poland, and the need to develop not only technology, but also human resources, support their technologies from the West, provide technological thought, which e.g. Wroclaw University of Technology could provide. This is very important. That is why today I appeal from this place, Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, that when we develop the Polish Armed Group, which will develop, I am convinced of this - today what is happening on the world market, is the demand for weapons, unfortunately, I say this: unfortunately, in such a bad faith, because the weapons can be killed by people, will be more and more - we have used these places which are very safe: Jelenia Góra, Legnica, Bolesławiec, Głogów or Zgorzelec. These are good places, very good places to recreate the branch of the Polish Armed Group's facilities and make sure that in these places students, technicians from mechanical schools, e.g. in Jelenia Góra they could find a job and build a weapon that will be used not only for the needs of the Polish army, but also for the needs of the world army. Therefore, please, if we build more plants and develop the Polish Armoury Group, and we will, then let us take care of those areas where this production will be really safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I invite you to Jelenia Góra, Zgorzelca, Bolesławica or Legnica. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u606	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Load is a destabilization of the tax system in Poland. No one knows how much he's gonna have to pay and under what conditions he's gonna settle his PIT. That's a way to characterize what the government has given us. However, these vague words will not give away frustration, anxiety, and eventually the loss of money of millions of Poles and Poles. The government is quickly trying to patch up a fatal reform. Some mistakes may be able to be corrected. Today I want to claim those whom the Polish Government has not spared, and, to put it simply, it hits the face. Because it's a form of abuse to take money from parents who are raising their own lives. The reform has taken away their ability to deal with the child together. Widows, divorced people, people who just raise their children themselves, today found out that their children were worse. The contempt for these families is greater because the government first took relief, then Prime Minister Morawiecki proudly announced that he would restore it. He presented the proposal to the organisations which they agreed to, and then he did not include these arrangements in the draft amendments made to the Sejm and again took their money. Instead of the promised and accepted double tax-free amount, at the last minute quietly and without explanation cut this ceiling by 1.5. Joint child settlement for single parents is only from 1.5 amount of free income to 45 thousand. PLN per year, i.e. for anyone who earns more than PLN 2862. This is really incomprehensible. You're taking money from those you should protect the most. Then you cheat that you're gonna fix that mistake, and then it turns out it was a lie that you're still hiding from today. I urge you to withdraw from this disgraceful deception, apologize to the Polish families, restore what you promised them before. It's time for minimum decency, Prime Minister, it's about time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u608	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gdynia is one of the biggest enterprises and business cards of the Second Republic of Poland. The port in Gdynia was created by a huge amount of resources, but above all the work and dedication of citizens reborn after years of Poland's partitions. Those who built the port and the city, among which, of which I am very proud, were also my ancestors, the buildings of Gdynia, so that for the Republic of Poland it would be a window to the world and one of the pillars of economic independence of the country. Today, almost 100 years after the uprising of Gdynia, this window to the world, which throughout the whole time Gdynia has been, can be closed, and more specifically, whether it is open or not, will no longer depend only on Poles. The tender for the operator and the 30-year lease of the Baltic Container Terminal in Gdynia is to be decided in the near future. The terminal, which was put into service in 1979, was the first and only container terminal on the entire Polish coast for decades. Two companies were placed to tender for the operator of the Baltic Container Terminal: the Chinese and the Filipino-American consortium. Winning the Chinese brings with it a very large potential threat to state security, mainly because the Chinese company already has its own container terminal operating in the neighborhood. Gdynia container terminal, as mentioned above, has been operating for 17 years and was established on the territory of one of Gdynia Shipyard's companies taken over from the bank. The Chinese terminal in the port of Gdynia is more than 20 hectares and a half-kilometer strip of the waterfront. The win of the Chinese investor means that all container terminals in the Gdynia port will be under Chinese control and the Chinese management. We're talking more than 80 hectares of waterfronts and storage sites. From a state security point of view, this is an unacceptable situation. It should be made clear that the Gdynia container terminal has been used for years to tranship the military equipment of the North Atlantic Pact States. It is in the Gdynia port that tanks, armored transporters and other military techniques are being reloaded. The container terminal is also a key strategic base for the logistical operation of the missile base in Redzików near Słupsk. Putting all container terminals under control in the Gdynia port of the state, which has not condemned the armed aggression of the Russian Federation so far to an independent Ukrainian state, would be irresponsible and even dangerous to the security of the Polish state and our allies. From this point of view, I call for this tendering procedure (the bell) to be considered not only financially, but also strategically in terms of the interests of the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u610	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From this point I appeal for a positive examination of the application submitted by the district of Gnieznieński for the second edition of the government program, the Polish Load fund for strategic investment programme for the modernisation of the district road on the section from the national road no. 15 by Szczytniki Czerniejewskie, Pakszyn to Czerniejew. The planned investment is included in Mon. modernisation of roads in the district of Gniezno. The reconstruction and modernization of this road has been expected for many years by the inhabitants of the municipality of Czernejewo, in particular the village of Pakszyn and the village of Szczytniki Czernejewskie. In particular, it is important for them to build a hiking and cycling path that they can safely reach important places for themselves. This nearly 8 km long section of the road is located in a built-up area. It is where the bus stops are located, from which children reach schools and schools, jobs. There are agricultural land, but it also leads to the train station Czernejewo. They expressed their concerns about their own safety and their children by creating a list of support for the investment signed by hundreds of residents. Recognizing the importance of this investment for improving the security of the population, the city council and the municipality of Czernejewo decided to finance this task and secure their own contribution to the planned investment of 800 000. zł. I am convinced that it is precisely with the support of the state budget from this programme that the joint action of the municipal government can bring a long-awaited result, i.e. the construction of the road, which I ask kindly to the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u612	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year marks the 60th anniversary of the beginning of work on the first articulated tram in Poland for a narrow track. On this occasion 19 April this year. The Polish Post Office introduced a postcard and commemorative stamps into circulation. The prototype of this unique tram was developed by a team of employees of the Bydgoszcz MPK, today MZK, with the director of engineering. Przemysław Boruta at the head. It is an extraordinary and glorious, although little-known card of Polish engineering thought. The memory of this breakthrough invention remained, among others. thanks to the Bydgoszcz expert on public transport, Mr Stanisław Sitark, who in his publications draws attention to the extraordinary history of the work on the prototype of this pioneering tram. In the 1960s, some of the Polish communication facilities inspired by constructions created in Western Europe undertook similar works. Then in Bydgoszcz it was decided to create its own articulated tram. However, this project was unique from the beginning. This is where the first articulated tram for narrow track was developed in Poland. It was built by an economic system with costs of only 400 thousand. PLN, which was at the time much lower than in other transport companies. The construction of the Bydgoszcz articulated tram lasted 3 months. We are grateful to remember the team of engineers working on this extraordinary car, i.e. Tadeusz Bogota, Tadeusz Skibiński, Zygmunt Obark, Andrzej Wyszyński, and above all the technical director of engineering at the time. Przemysław Boruta. The words of one of the creators of this prototype vehicle deserve special attention. I quote: The Bydgoszcz prototype has undergone detailed research and testing at the Institute of Communist Economy, obtaining a very flattering opinion and surpassing similar vehicles in Poland in terms of construction solutions used. However, this is not the only success of designers from the Bydgoszcz MPK. Only 10 years after the first joint tram in Poland was put into operation, another groundbreaking, innovative patent was developed. This time it was a tower car to repair the overhead contact line with rail-driving devices. The creators of the invention were engineered. Przemysław Boruta, ing. Tadeusz Skibiński and Jan Sempruch. There is no way to fail to mention the continuation of exceptional public transport achievements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently we can admire trams from Bydgoszcz in Poland and abroad, namely from PESA plants. It is a well-known company, unique, valued for its trams. I would like to thank you for your help in preparing this statement to the granddaughter of engineer Boruta, Mrs. Catherine Boruta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u614	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days from now, we have important May holidays. May 1st - Labor Day, May 1st - Entry of Poland into the European Union, May 2nd - Flag Day, May 3rd - Constitution Day 3 May, 25 years of the Constitution of 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! I cordially encourage all Poles and Poles to celebrate these important dates in our hearts properly and solemnly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u616	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Russia's attack on Ukraine and the resulting restrictions or ban on energy imports from the East have shown how important self-sufficiency is in terms of obtaining Poland's energy sources, how important this self-sufficiency is also in the light of the climate disaster that is happening in the world, how important Poland's energy self-sufficiency would be if it used completely renewable energy sources. Poland has the potential of renewable energy sources, but none of the currently used sources in Poland has fully exploited potential. Today, a debate was held during the session of the Sejm on the situation just after the import of gas from Russia, concerning the energy security of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, during this debate, questions were not allowed, which is completely incomprehensible. So, using the opportunity to make a statement, I wanted to ask the government, ask Minister Sasina, ask the Ministry of Climate and Environment when it starts to exploit the potential of RES in Poland. There is no return to more favourable solutions for the use of photovoltaics. In fact, the development of photovoltaics was inhibited, and it was very popular in Poland. Since 1 April, the potential of wind energy has not been fully exploited, as we in this House have repeatedly called for. However, today I wanted to raise the issue of huge deposits of geothermal water in Poland, which - as far as the potential of clean energy is concerned - are the least exploited potential, and we have such deposits and possibilities for their exploitation, that if we took it, we would provide Poland with half of the annual production of heat. This situation was highlighted by the NIK during the audit and formulated the conclusions that follow from this audit. I would like to present these conclusions (the bell) to the Government, especially the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It is to entrust the State Geological Service or to initiate in another form research work devoted to prospective locations for geothermal projects...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u618	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u619	...consider and provide investors with more substantive support...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u620	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u621	...and consider extending the catalogue of entities eligible for funding. I said it in a nutshell, Marshal. Thank you for not turning the mic off, but at least let me tell you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u622	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement I would like to express my thanks and appreciation for the actions of the Polish government, which wants to commit PLN 11 billion to modernization of Polish railways. Twice increasing the budget for the implementation of the Rail+ programme is a real response to the expectations and initiatives of local authorities in modernising and expanding railway lines. I would like to point out that this trend is quite opposed to the one presented by the PO-PSL governments, which limited the resources allocated to the railways. Let me remind you that in February 2013 plans were presented so-called. optimisation of the railway network, which resulted in the exclusion from operation of almost 90 sections of the line with a total length of approximately 2 000. A kilometer in our country. The current government policy focuses on investing in rail as an efficient and safe means of transport, and the government's Rail+ programme will enable the modernisation and expansion of railway lines and railway stations, connecting stations and stops. This creates an opportunity for sustainable development of rural areas and small towns, bringing their inhabitants closer to large urban agglomerations, academic centres, industrial zones and many other institutions. This will enable young people to have stable and fluid access to schools, universities, jobs, cultural and sports facilities, which will enable young Poles to develop their skills, talents and interests and realize their passions and dreams in full. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I firmly believe that the measures involved will have a significant impact on the significant improvement in the standard of living of our residents, and I would like to thank you very much for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u623	Thank you. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u624	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns Mr Bogusław Skark - a veteran fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. Bogusław Sakharov was born on 3 March 1925 in Kontakta. The family tradition of fighting for freedom and independence of Poland has been passed on to his family for generations. Mikołaj Skarbski Bogusław's grandfather was sent by the Tsar to Siberia, while his father joined in 1918 as a volunteer to 7. The Ulanów Lubelskie Regiment and participated in the Polish-Bolshevik War. The outbreak of World War II interrupted the education of young Bogusław, who completed seven classes at the School of Commons No. 2 in Chełm im. Stanisław Staszic. In February 1940, he was under 15 years old. While trying to get to France, he was arrested by the NKVD at the Hungarian-Soviet border and imprisoned in the prison of Brigid women in Lviv. In April of this year he was transferred to a military prison in Lviv, where in May 1940 he was deported to a camp in Starobielsk. In the autumn of 1940, he was again transported to the camp to the Komyan Autonomous Socialist Soviet Republic, where he worked on the logging of the forest. Under the agreement Sikorski-Majski was released from the camp and after a half-year trip he reached the city of Tashlak in Uzbekistan, where the Polish army was created. During this period, Mr.Bogusław used the maiden name of his mother, Sieduszewski, fearing that a Russian-sounding name could be the reason for his inclusion in the Red Army. On 2 March 1941, he was assigned to 9. Anti-tank campaign 9. Infantry Division. After being uniformed, he was directed to supplement the Carpathian Rifle Brigade and moved to Krasnodowska by the Caspian Sea from where Pahlevi in Iran reached Quastin, Palestine. In December 1943, through Palestine, Iraq again, Palestine and Egypt, his regiment reached the Italian front. There he was active in battles and operations, among others. on the Songro and Rapido River and in the fights at Monte Cassino, on the Gustava line on the Adriatic, under Ankona, on the Goths line in the Appenines, in Lombardy and under Bologna. He was promoted to corporal and decorated among others. The Cross of Valiant, the Cross of Monte Cassino, the Medal of War 1939-1945, the Star of War 1939-1945, the Star of Italy. In the autumn of 1943, together with the Carpathian Rifle Division, Austria, Germany and France reached England and then Scotland. He returned to Chelm in 1973. The fight for freedom and independence of Poland Bogusław Skarbski continued in the following years. Despite constant harassment and repression by the communist authorities, he engaged in the activity of Solidarity. During the declaration of martial law, he was arrested and imprisoned in an internment camp in Darłówk near Koszalin. He was released conditionally on 5 July 1982 with an endorsement in his passport for crossing the border once without being able to return to Poland. Until the end of the martial law, he was under surveillance by the Security Service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] His grave was entered in the records of veterans' graves of fighting and independence of Poland. On 20 April 2022, a plaque was solemnly placed on his grave informing about it. We remember. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u625	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 19th, on the 79th anniversary of the uprising, the delegation of the club of the Left laid flowers at the Monument of the Heroes of the Ghetto in Warsaw. We also laid flowers at the monument of Szmula Zygielboyma, which is part of the path of memory and martyrdom and the fight of the Jews. Szmul Zygielboym was a member of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in London. On 12 May 1943, in protest against the indifference of the world towards the Holocaust, he committed suicide. The decision to take his own life was justified in a suicide note dated 11 May to President Władysław Raczkiewicz and Prime Minister Władysław Sikorski. I quote: Through my death I wish to express the deepest protest against the inaction with which the world looks and allows the Jewish people to exterminate. I know how little human life means, especially today, but since I couldn't do it in life, maybe my death will help me to break out of the indifference of those who can and should act to save this handful of Polish Jews who are still alive at the last moment. Let us remember these words forever, especially since our neighbours in Ukraine are experiencing a nightmare of war today. It's a good thing the countries that didn't react immediately are fighting in their chests today. As Robert Habeck said, Vice Chancellor of Germany of the Greens, Berlin's long-term Eastern policy was wrong, support for Kiev should have started years ago. Ukraine defends the values of Europe as a whole. Europe and the world, support Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u627	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u628	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Wanda Malczewska - a mystic from Parzna. When the well-known Australian director and actor Mel Gibson decided to screen the events leading up to the death and resurrection of Jesus, he took advantage of the well-known apparitions of German stigmatist Anna Catherine Emmerich in Western Europe. Meanwhile, at a similar time there was a Polish mystic who experienced seven visions of the torture of Jesus Wanda Malczewska. She spent the last years of her life in Blechatov Parzno, where she died. She was born in Radom on May 15, 1822 in a noble family. She was one of those Malczewskies. The famous painter Jacek Malczewski was her nephew. My father was a patriot and a political activist, and Julia's mom just slipped through Wanda's life. She died when the mystic came to be nine years old. She was taught sensitivity to human suffering and poverty. Available studies show that for the first time Wanda Malczewska had a vision on the Great Friday of Lent in 1852. Jesus carrying the cross told her about Poland and about the enemies. He mentioned the role of young people and that new enemies would try to gain their minds. In the next vision, the mystic woman heard from Our Lady the prophecy that on 15 August Poles would take a great victory over evil. It's been a few dozen years, and the miracle came over the Vistula. Then she heard that Poland would suffer disasters, but Poland would remain if it could not take away its faith. A large part of Wanda Malczewska's vision was about future Russia. She was to be punished for a deviation from true faith for repression of the Unites. She heard Christ talk about the death of the Tsar and his family. She warned the priests to live in purity, for the Son of God suffers torment if they perform Mass in the state of mortal sin. She lived in the Dominican monastery for 11 years. St. Anna at the Przyrow. She has been in Parzno since 1892. Her wish was to be buried near the Lord Jesus hidden in the Most Holy Sacrament. She died in 1896. In his homily, on June 13, 1987, St. John Paul II compared Malczewska to the secular apostle, indicating that she died in the opinion of holiness, with the highest honor for the Blessed Sacrament throughout her life. On 21 February 2006, Pope Benedict XVI signed a decree on the heroicity of the virtues of the venerable servant of God Wanda Malczewska. We invite all the faithful and listeners to visit Parzna, where there is a sanctuary of blessed Mrs Wanda Malczewska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u629	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u630	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last minute, the item on housing fell off the agenda today. This does not change the fact that it is high time to settle with the Living+ programme. It was your flagship program. Big plans, loud announcements, then silence. In six years, you've built instead of 100,000. Only 1,500 apartments. How can you get on with another show if the other one hasn't been cleared? Tell me what went wrong. What did you guys say? After all, that's why you're blowing up the prosecution's office, you've divided us with the European Union to implement such programs. 98,000. Unbuilt apartments call for revenge to heaven. Has anyone lost their job? Or maybe someone went to jail for embezzlement? You're building a new commune, but the real commune isn't up to date. Two million apartments were created for Gierek and 1500 for Kaczyński. The gierek owed us 40 and the PiS for 600 billion PLN. You're the parody of the commune. You're having an economic homeopathy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u631	Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're all white and red. During each year the national flag becomes a symbol of the unity of Poles. This happens during sports events when we proudly show our attachment to white and red colors, but also during national holidays and many other important events. Recently, we had a beautiful action on the occasion of the anniversary of the baptism of Poland, a young feast established by the Polish Sejm, which was celebrated for the third time. In this way we showed not only the importance of this festival in our homeland, but we also reminded of our Christian roots. It is worth noting that numerous local governments have joined this action throughout the country, contributing to the consolidation of this historical fact, which was the baptism of Poland in the social consciousness. Two more Polish holidays ahead of us: the celebration of the flag of the Republic of Poland and another anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution on 3 May. Once again, we will have the opportunity to demonstrate our patriotism, our love for our homeland and our pride in the achievements of our ancestors. This is particularly important now that there is a war in Ukraine, whose citizens are extremely heroic in defending their country and Europe against the Russian Federation. Let our national symbols appear everywhere these days. Let us appeal to all Poles to let hundreds of thousands of white and red ones fly in front of houses, on balconies, streets, in workplaces and many, many other places. The Office of the Independent Programme has made an important contribution to promoting the hanging of white and red colours. The initiativeMy flag, which included, among other things, famous athletes, enjoyed great popularity in social media, but each of us can do something, get involved, in these difficult times, so that as many Poles as possible on May weekend show pride in our homeland, pride in being Poles. For several years I regularly visit schools and kindergartens in the Tarnów region before May holidays, conducting patriotic meetings and handing out white and red flags. It is not a great effort, and the country, as Cyprian Kamil Norwid wrote, is a great collective duty. There's always a way to support your country. There's a perfect opportunity for that these days. Let's be together and celebrate together. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u633	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Who is curious, how is the Polish case, let us see as in the lens today, the first day of the next session of the 9th Sejm. Take a look at the law that passed unnoticed, the law under the unnoticed title: on the tax on goods and services. It has been said here that this is the implementation of the Eurocircle Directive. That's the routine. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland has actually been doing little else for years, only implementing. This is a law - read it by the state - which introduced into the conceptual network and the legal structure of the Republic of Poland, no more or less, an army of Eurokolchoz, armed forces of Eurokolchoz. Not only foreign armies under NATO's name, but also those, as we read in the Act, implementing the common defence and security policy of Eurokolchoz, this law introduces, I repeat, the kitchen door, because without any debate or debate within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or - as I advocated - within the Committee on National Defence. From handcuff to handcuff. And earlier on the same day, another law from the PiS series Ukrainian+. You will add further laws on amending the law - laws that introduce inequality, because by favoring some, they discriminate against others. We, the Confederation, the Confederation of the Polish Crown represented by me here, cannot support such things, because we do not wish the Ukrainians badly, attention, we do not want this hasty propaganda activity to start internal conflicts. Nor do we want to bring Poland into the Russian-Ukrainian war, which you also do without debate, without announcing it. The Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland informs us from Berlin that tanks have been sacrificed, and today's closed meeting of the National Defence Commission, which I cannot, of course, disclose, confirms only that it is unknown what to replace these tanks (the Bell) which together with other equipment...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u635	Mr Łukasz Mejza, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u636	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u637	There's no envoy. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u638	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In January the president of PKN Orlen Daniel Obajtek revealed that 417 fuel stations operating under the brand of Gdańsk Lotus, i.e. 80% all will be sold to the Hungarian concern MOL and the wholesale segment and shares in the Gdańsk refinery will be taken over by Saudi Aramko. So some of the Lotus assets are to be sold to pro-Russian Hungarians and Saudis who, I remind you, have abstained from voting to exclude Russia from the UN Human Rights Council. In the event of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, it is necessary to halt the takeover of the Lotus group by foreign actors favoring Russia. We were making an amendment to stop this transaction by six months at least, pending an explanation. Unfortunately, the current PiS government refused to accept this and rejected this amendment. In Pomerania we are aware of the huge role that Lotus has played in the region's economy, built over the last 50 years. The loss will primarily be for Pomerania, but Lotus stations are also among the best in Poland. The transaction will cause a strong competitor to enter the market for Orlen. It's against the Polish state. That's a sad statement. PiS is doing business selling out our common assets. E.g. about PLN 10 billion was invested in the development of the refinery in Gdańsk, and Saudi Aramko is expected to pay 30% of the shares. only about PLN 1 billion. So the expenditures weren't even half-depreciated. That's interesting. For the seller, that is, for us, Poland, this is not a good price. So I'm asking, why? I wanted to point out that the message from the PiS, which is the governing decision-makers, is not true, that it was the European Union that ordered the sale of petrol stations to MOL. The European Union only ordered the sale of assets to avoid monopolisticisation after the Lotus merger with Orlen, but did not indicate to whom to sell. I ignore the most important thing, that it is not a merger, it is the propertyization of our Polish thriving company. The employees of the Gdańsk refinery will receive 48 months of continuous work. But then what? Does anyone believe that the Saudis will keep their promises and continue (the bell) to extend their contracts? I ask: How is Poland supposed to get away from Russian oil when it will be brought here on a large scale by Hungarian tankers? Instead of refueling oil from Polish refineries, we will refuel Russian oil at MOL stations, because MOL is a company associated with Russian oil business. A few weeks before Russia's attack on Ukraine Orbán with Putin...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u639	Madame, you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u640	...signed further long-term oil and gas contracts in Hungary, including MOL. Prime Minister! There's still time to stop this transaction. I repeat: this is contrary to the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u641	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today at least three, four, five times after the last speech I heard about the Polish state right. I do not know whether we have a Polish right in the state of PiS, a Polish right in the state of the Platform, a Polish right in the state of the Left or a Polish right in the state of PSL, or whether it is a virtual concept. The state's right are the lines of action in a country that accept the majority of society and which are agreed by political elites of different options, so that every 4 years they do not change their minds, what is the state's right. It's about not being a politician's will, it's about a strategy that's being built for you for the next few decades. Meanwhile, in foreign policy we have a dispute between the current government and the European Union. It is partly justified because we want Poland to be taken seriously, but partly we lack dialogue with the European Union to deal with many matters relevant to Poland. The United States has really crossed Europe a long time ago, even more so Poland. It was only the war in Ukraine that caused the United States to be interested in Europe again. New troops will be deployed, and we don't talk about it, we leave it at the moment that's going on today. We don't talk about how to handle this for years. Refugee policy is double, because on the one hand Poles, government and local governments are doing very well when it comes to refugees from Ukraine, but to this day we do not know what to do at the Belarusian border. I assume that there is some provocation there, but I also assume that there are some people there who actually want to live in this Europe. We have no policy in this regard. Finally, we should start talking about open borders with Ukraine for the future, after the war is over. They're gonna need this very much. Maybe we need to build two nations that move freely and work? National defense. We are in NATO and very well, but we no longer have a common position on the Polish defence industry. We do not have an established position on how to organize a Polish army, where to transfer more money, and this is strategically important, what shape this army is supposed to have. This is important for the future of Poland. In the economy, we are talking about moving away from Russian oil and Russian gas. That's right, but it's all residual. The government tells us what it wants to do about it, but the opposition should sit down with the government, and the government with the opposition, so that for the next few decades strategically solves this problem. The same applies to state participation in key industries for Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I draw attention - of course I have not exhausted the subject, I have not said everything - that the real test for the political class that is ruling today will be whether it will be able to sit down and create conditions of the Polish state's right for the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u643	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is significant that this morning in the Seym during the so-called. The debate on energy security of the Polish Marshal of the Sejm of Law and Justice did not allow Members to debate, did not allow questions to be asked. Is Poland's energy security the subject of taboos? Is the government afraid of questions about this? Maybe. Perhaps the government is afraid to ask questions about the empty promises of Prime Minister Morawiecki. In March, the Prime Minister announced that at the beginning of April he would present the most ambitious derussification plan for hydrocarbons in Europe, namely coal, oil and gas from Russia, but to this day, in addition to the embargo on coal, which we had to seal at the committee meeting, the Prime Minister presented nothing. Instead, he presented us with a propaganda campaign. He released tow trucks in Europe with the inscription: Russian oil stop, probably driven by Russian oil. Prime Minister Morawiecki! That's right: stop the Russian oil. As a Member of the Greens and the Civic Coalition, I ask: Where is this most ambitious hydrocarbon derussification plan in Europe? What exactly does gas safety look like? How many contracts do we have for alternative oil supplies? Where is the development of green, Polish, cheap alternatives, cheap energy sources? Where is the predicted acceleration of RES development? Where's the Polish biogas and the Polish biomethane? Where's the green hydrogen? Where's the transport electrification? Where are 1 million electric cars of Prime Minister Morawiecki? Where? Action, not empty talk at press conferences, will build energy security of Poland. We will build them as Greens, and the Polish wind, Polish sun, green hydrogen or Putin biogas will never turn them off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u645	That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u646	Statement on Jadwiga Chrustiel ps. Cossack, liaison, daughter of the commander of the Warsaw Uprising Anthony Chruszel ¿Montera ¿ Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 26th, she left for the eternal watch. Jadwiga Chruścielż Kozaczek, daughter of the commander of the Warsaw Uprising General Anthony Chruścielż Monteraż. During the uprising she served as a liaison of the AK Circuit and staff. She was one of the youngest combatants. After the fall of the uprising, she was captured and then transferred to a recruitment center in the Polish Navy. Her whole life has been about scouting and spreading patriotic attitudes. In New York, she led a company called Podhale. She's the author of textbooks on the subject. Hello to her memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u647	Mr. Marshal! The eastern border of our country is the border of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. Just the Polish-Belarusian border, and now the Polish-Ukrainian border has become a critical point on the map of Europe. Thousands of refugees appeared on one and the other. What's the difference between them, what's the problem, and how do we deal with it? Let's start with the Belarusian side. For months now, so as not to say for years, the whole of Europe has lived on the issue of refugees. The wave of immigrants is passing through our countries. Thousands of so-called refugees were camping at borders trying to get to Europe illegally. Recent developments in Afghanistan, the Taliban's takeover of the regime led to the mass migration of the Afghan population to Europe. ♪ But is it just ♪ Afghans? The Syrians, the citizens of Somalia, Yemen, Iraq, Congo are they certainly refugees fearing for their lives? And in the background, the President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko blurring his hands. A stream of dollars for transportation so-called. refugees, unrest at the border, domestic disputes in the EU's neighbouring countries. It is worth considering who it serves, who benefits from it, and what it can lead to. And a second wave of refugees from Ukraine. On February 24, the Russian army attacked an independent Ukrainian state. Our neighbors. Putin used powerful military resources to force the Ukrainians to surrender in a few days. It seemed that a powerful Russia as a road roller would pass through Ukrainian soil. It's not like that. The aggressor didn't anticipate the desperate resistance of the Ukrainians. The whole world stood behind Ukraine. The first country was Poland. Thousands have appeared on our eastern border, at the moment hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing bombs and the brutality of Russian Councils. We received them with open hearts and hands. We gave them our homes. Security and custody. Why do we now accept refugees and defend ourselves against them in November? The answer is simple, or rather visible to the naked eye. Thousands of young, aggressive men attacking Polish border services. Supported by Belarusian border crossings, pushing the grids, destroying the border infrastructure. It's different now. Thousands of crying women with children, with one suitcase or backpack. Women, children and old men fleeing the nightmare of war, a war that is so close to us. Among them there are no men, they went to fight for their homeland. They've given us the care of their dearest. Wives, children and mothers. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u648	On 2 May we celebrate the flag of the Republic of Poland and the Polish and Polish Day. These two holidays have a relatively short history - 18 and 20 years respectively, but have permanently entered into the calendar of Polish holidays. All over Poland, from the Baltic to the Tatras, Poles are proud to celebrate the flag of the Republic of Poland, remembering the great and important moments of Polish weapons, athletes fighting under the white and red flag. It is important that the national colors connect us all regardless of the values, views, faith. This holiday unites Poles under the white and red color of our flag. Okay. 20 million Poles live outside the country, almost 10 million in the USA. On May 2, let us join symbolically with all fellow countrymen who found themselves outside Poland. Many of them do not know Poland at all and were born in a foreign country. Their great-grandfathers emigrated in the days of the partitions, after the defeats of the uprisings, some followed the great water behind the bread. After World War II, the Polish grandparents often did not return to their homeland and settled in Great Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia. Fathers were forced to emigrate after the introduction of martial law by the communist tyranny Wojciech Jaruzelski. Another great emigration of Poles seeking a better life took place after 1 May 2004 and Poland's accession to the EU. Many emigrations were forced by political, economic and longing for their homeland, Polish bread, Catholic faith, Polish hospitality, culture and loved ones. The recent economic emigration has had many negative effects on our society. Millions of young, operational people were outside Poland, working in London, Hamburg, Amsterdam. With all emigrants, with Polonia on every continent we join in a special way every 2nd of May. It is important to remember them and that they not forget their homeland and their roots. For several years the patriotic community in Chojnice has organized ceremonial celebrations of the flag of the Republic of Poland. The initiative came from the Arcana History Society. Circumstantial exhibitions, singing patriotic songs, a 100-metre white-red flag on the Chojnice old market, handing out national flags and bows are actions aimed at integrating Chojniczan under the national flag. For many years I have been appealing and asking for as many flags as possible on our homes, balconies of apartments. Let us not be ashamed of the white-red flag, let us be proud of it, just as our grandparents and great-grandfathers were proud of it, when after the time of the partitions or the Second World War the white-red flag could be again over Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u649	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member from Pomerania, I would like to inform you about investment agreements that have recently been signed and will be implemented with funding from the Government's Strategic Investment Programme - Polski Ład. I am very pleased that thanks to government measures, these new projects will significantly improve the comfort of the inhabitants of my area. Last week in Borcz, Kaszubach, a contract has already been signed for the construction of sports fields and treadmills along with the infrastructure accompanying the Elementary School in Borcz. It is very important for me to take care of the development of Pomerania and its inhabitants, and thanks to this investment local youth will take place to develop their sports passions. The good news flows from the municipality of Sulęczyno, where a contract was signed for the reconstruction of the road network in Mściszewice. This investment will be financed 85% from the government program of Polish Load. In the municipality of Trzebielino a contract was signed for the task of Mon. The construction of internal roads in the municipality of Trzebielino. In addition, the Strategic Investment Programme provides for the reconstruction of existing roads in the towns of Zielin, Suchor, Starkowo and Poborowo. Let us remember that good road conditions are not only the safety of residents, but also better comfort of life. There will also be huge changes on the roads in the Bytowski district in the near future, where the contract for the execution of the investment has already been signed, which will run through three municipalities: Borzytuchom, Tuchomie and Lipnica. In addition, a new surface will be made on the district road Osuknicka - Upilka. These investments are another step towards increasing safety on Polish roads. All these investments will be possible with funding from the Government Strategic Investment Programme - Polski Ład. Pomerania is gaining enormous support thanks to effective government cooperation with the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u650	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! 3.5 billion zlotys - this is the amount that will go to the Lublin Voivodeship under the government programmeKolej plus ¿. Record appropriations are intended for new connections and modernisation of existing railway lines. This would not be possible if not for the involvement of the Government of the United Right, headed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, for which I am proud and for which I thank the people of Lublin. The decision to increase the budget for the Rail plus programme was presented on 20 April this year. in Janów Lubelski at a press conference with the participation of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin and Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Thanks to these decisions, Lubelskie voivodship has become the leader in the number of investments eligible for the programmeKolej plus ¿, as well as in terms of the amount of funding. We know very well that skeptics were not lacking in this matter. The Government of Law and Justice has once again proven that the development of the Lublin region is a priority and that the programme of Rail plus is proof of this. There is no place for marginalization of our region, which some time ago was called Poland B. Every voivodship, every region, every town is important because it represents the strength of our country. Rail plus is the prospect of the economic development of the Lublin region. After many years of oblivion, the present government takes action that develops the country economically, but above all they exploit the potential of forgotten areas of Lublin. I am pleased that the funding was granted to all five projects notified by the Lublin Voivodeship government. Among the planned investments are the following: - construction of a 65 km long railway line on the section Szastarka - Janów Lubelski - Biłgoraj with improved availability of railway transport in Kraśnik, - works on railway lines 69 and 72 on the section Rejowiec - Zawada - Zamość, length 66 km, - revitalization of the Chelm - Wladawa connection, length of the section is 51 km. In practice, this means that even more towns will have access to fast and environmentally friendly public transport and opportunities for economic development. Thanks to the planned investments, the reality of many local communities will change for the better in the near future. I am convinced that the result of the planned actions will be facilitation of both public transport and freight transport, but this is primarily a wider opportunity for economic development, and as a result improve the quality of life of many Polish families not only in Lublin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-sejm-53-1.u651	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 28 April 2022, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 25]]
