ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting, and the States participating in the sitting remotely, please check whether your iPads are included. I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, we're gonna block the possibility of joining the meeting. At the moment, I will call for a vote which is intended solely to determine the number of senators attending the meeting. I ask you to cast any vote to confirm your participation in the sitting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's give a few more people a chance... Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. But this number, I see, is increasing. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to be held on 8, 9 and 10 June 2022. The agenda will be provided to you by electronic means. It should be prepared that there will be a dozen legislative acts. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the possibility of mobilising funds for the Republic of Poland from the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Marcin Horala. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the possibility of mobilising funds for the Republic of Poland from the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. The basic message you have already heard is that negotiations have ended with the European Commission on the NPO. Poland agreed with the Commission on the KPO itself, the description of milestones, including among others. on judicial reform. The European Commission's decision to formally approve the outcome of these negotiations is expected in May. Then, within the a maximum of 4 weeks should be decided by the Council of the European Union, which will complete the formal approval process of the NPO. This is, of course, not the end of the talks and the end of the whole process related to KPO. It is necessary to negotiate and sign a financing agreement with the European Commission for the grant part of the KPO and the loan agreement, precisely for the loan part. These agreements will be signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland by the Minister responsible for regional development as coordinator of the KPO. The technical services of the Commission and the Polish authorities must then agree, adopt operational arrangements, i.e. details of how we will implement reforms, investments, for example, which entity will be specifically responsible for the reform or investment and how it will be settled before the European Commission. It's about verification mechanisms, type of documentation, well, this kind of technical arrangements. This process we will want to complete as soon as possible, until the end of the holiday, although it must be acknowledged that in the case of many countries We've had this experience before. It happened to last up to 5 months. As soon as these agreements are signed with the Commission and the operational arrangements have been completed, we will be able to send a first payment request. This will be the moment when the physical cash flow occurs, which is the first transfer to the account, you can say colloquially. The most important, however, is to meet the substantive requirements, i.e. to implement the key milestones. Of course, the main area of negotiations, which is no secret, was judicial reform, but generally, within the framework of the KPO we have 36 milestones, of which 15 are already realized and the others are at an advanced stage of implementation. We plan to send the first payment application in the third quarter of this year, so that the Commission's refund will be sent to Poland this year. According to the payment profile, we expect to receive PLN 4 billion in the first tranche, over, because EUR 4 billion 200 million, including EUR 2 billion 850 million in the grant part and EUR 1 billion 370 million in the loan. In the following years, we will be able to send two refund applications per year to the European Commission. Of course, without waiting for the funding from this instrument, we will mobilise national funds that will enable the start of pre-financing investments. These measures will later be returned to the Commission. This is mainly about the funds derived from the return within the framework of the covid shields available to the Polish Development Fund. This year, the needs of individual resorts add up to more than PLN 4 billion. We are already ready to implement a revised law on the implementation of development policy. She was signed by the President of the Republic on 6 May and will soon enter into force. In June, the regional development minister will sign agreements with reform and investment ministers. In total, it will be 13 agreements on the basis of which the resorts will apply to the PFR for pre-financing of investments, for measures that will allow the investments to be launched and which will then be returned under the KPO. Currently, in resorts and support units which will implement investments, work is underway on the preparation of these investments, detailed selection criteria, rules of competitions, model documents, support contracts or tender documents. These are the individual departments and their support units, in accordance with the implementation system of the NPOs, which will be responsible for the timely implementation of investment reforms. It is on their websites that potential designers should look for information about further announced competitions that can be entered into. As an example, investments such as those under the "Maluch+" programme or the "Clean Air" programme are already being carried out and the European Commission's funds will be reimbursed later. The Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy as coordinator of the KPO has prepared such framework elements of the implementation system, including among others. already mentioned law, model agreement, guidelines for control and monitoring, horizontal criteria for selecting projects, eligibility criteria for costs, recommendations for implementing reforms. We have also launched an IT system, which is currently being audited by the Ministry of Finance to confirm that it meets all safety standards. In June, we will set up a monitoring committee for NRPs to start monitoring reforms and investments with partners. An updated CPO taking into account the outcome of negotiations with the European Commission will be forwarded to the Council of Ministers for information and then made public on the website of the European Funds. On this portal, our Ministry as KPO coordinator will also present all up-to-date information on implementation and respond to the most repeated questions of beneficiaries, make available all information related to the implementation of KPOs. Our intention is to work closely with partners, with other departments, with supervisory, implementing, with beneficiaries, but also with the Parliament of the Republic, because especially the reform section that is planned And this is 48 reforms to be implemented, by the way, and 54 investments are most often the part requiring close cooperation with the parliament, which simply requires the process of legislative acts that will implement these reforms. And, well, at this point in time maybe this declaration that we are waiting and ready to work closely with Parliament to implement these reforms, I will conclude this preliminary information. Of course, we are at your disposal as regards questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u3	Thank you very much. Maybe you should stay, Minister, 'cause I'm expecting some questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: Can I answer from the spot?]] In the Senate, we prefer the answers from the grandstand... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: Well, good.]] Let me remind you, for the record, that according to the article. The 44 point 6 asking question has a minute to ask the question, which corresponds to 6 minutes to the answer, and this time we will, both ways, follow. Is there anyone who wants to ask a question? Senator Necessary. Second, Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question: have you, as a government and as a law and justice, consulted any political parties about how to spend money from KPOs? If so, how did these negotiations take place, the form in which they took place, and what findings did you come up with, what extent of spending this money was determined, and what is it simply, without any consultation, by the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u5	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u6	Mr. Senator, you asked a question that actually consists of two drones. The first element is the question of what part was consulted with other political parties. I'll admit that I don't have that kind of knowledge, because it's at the highest level that political arrangements take place. Perhaps such contacts were between the leaders of our parties. As I say, in this informal, political dimension, I have no such knowledge. And the second question was what part of the KPO is issued without consultation. I answer, none. It was a multi-stage process of public consultation of KPOs with all kinds of actors, with local governments, in the joint government and local government committee alone, we devoted long hours on the issue of KPOs, we also consulted with social actors, it was possible to make comments, it was multi-staged and, more importantly, as I say, public, publicly available process. So if the question is, what part of the KPO was designed without consulting... And, of course, then the negotiation process with the Commission and the European institutions. So to the question, which part of the KPO was designed without consultation, I answer: none. The whole thing's been consulted. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u7	Next up, Mr. Senator. Senator Włosowicz now. I take it this is your second time signing up. [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that programs, e.g. The clean air or the baby+, which we are already implementing, will be refunded later by means of funds received from KPO. So the European Commission and the Council of the European Union will agree that the law should act backwards at this point?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u9	No, the law will not work backwards because these projects are included in the KPO, he is known and is agreed to it, to the whole mechanism I don't want to get into this anymore, because I have an opinion. Which unfortunately caused that we do not have this pre-financing mechanism, but is a reimbursement mechanism. In short, if KPOs and their term of validity, the work is known, its knowledge and awareness on the European side has been for more than a year The reform data provides for, the expenditure concerned provides and provides for their reimbursement, and they will, of course, be reimbursed. And in that sense, the whole refund mechanism. It's a mechanism. reverse action, because these are the expenses that we first bear, the actions that we undertake, and if they are in line with the reform or investment that has been recorded in the CPO, we present the accounts to the Commission and this expenditure is refunded. If there were any inconsistencies, of course the Commission would simply not reimburse such expenditure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u10	Thank you very much. The question is again, Senator Necessary, the next in order is Senator Czelej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, my question was very simple. It means that the Minister has no knowledge that any of the opposition parties should have a way of spending money from KPOs. Is that how I understand the Minister's statement? Do you deny that it was established with anyone, or do you have no knowledge of this? This knowledge is quite common, but I would like to learn it from a competent person, which is from you, unless you do not have such knowledge, which would be surprising. I'd like to know if you know anything about it. It is known that the case was voted on a year ago, etc., etc. So I ask you to answer the question whether the Government of Law and Justice has determined with someone from the opposition how to spend money from KPOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u12	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u13	Dear Senator, I think there's been a little misunderstanding in our discussion, because I absolutely didn't say it wasn't consulted, I just said that at the highest levels, concerning e.g. Chiefs, and I'm not the head of my party. And your question concerned the procedure outside the procedure of the KPO, its approval and consultation, some informal political talks in which, if you'll excuse me, I, for example. I didn't participate, and as far as I know, neither do you, but I know that's the kind of conversation you've been having. But what was their theme at this highest level, we don't know. Let me remind you, for example, of the issue of approving the laws implementing in the Sejm, where we met with parliamentary clubs, with all the options, we proposed joint approval of them. I'll remind you, for example. The Civic Platform club did not support this law at the time, but e.g. The left club supported and had some demands which were implemented in accordance with the way it presented them. If this is your question, I will correct my answer: yes, such consultations were.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Chelya. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister...]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Why don't I say it out loud?]] [[Voice from the room: No, because it's being recorded.]] No, it goes to the transcript. [[Voice from the room: Typical Senator...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u15	Could the delay threaten not to use the funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u16	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u17	Of course, no delay helps, but negotiations with the European Commission were also taking place with the awareness of the passing time. Therefore, it was also agreed on the Commission's side that the KPO, which asked for forgiveness, indicated in which timetable it would soon be published, this new version, taking into account the outcome of the negotiations with the European Commission... Of course, one of these results was just throwing it on the timeline. The main problem is, let's say, the negative that results from this delay, that is, that the time has passed when expenditure could be pre-financing, but as I also pointed out, we have a mechanism that will allow us to deal with it and these expenses, pre-financing we have at this moment provided with the Polish Development Fund, therefore this minus will not be. And then? Well, the future will show. We have a few years to implement reforms, a few years to implement investments. I don't think very many people, like me, know what the different risk factors for investment are. As far as reforms are concerned, these are such high risk factors... I think they are smaller, because to a large extent they are simply amendments to legislation. We know how long the legislative process lasts, sometimes it lasts for a long time, but it doesn't last for six years. So we're happy here. This factor, that this time less, never helps, but this risk has been analyzed and mitigated.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u18	Thank you very much. I'll let you know that there are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor as Senator Bogdan Klich's first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I don't know about you guys, but I feel like we're in the same place we were exactly a year ago. I mean, we're having the same debate with another minister, but we haven't gone any further since last year. This means that we have not only lost the possibility of using EUR 4 billion 700 million in the previous year for advances that could be used immediately for the purposes described in the National Reconstruction Plan. This is not 4 000 700 zł, this is not 4 million 700 zł. This is 4 billion 700 million euro. This is the giant money that Poland needs after the pandemic like air. The Poles needed that money last year. Where are they? Still there, in Brussels. Whose cause? By the stubbornness of the rulers not to bring this out of the unconstitutional reforms of the justice system carried out in recent years before our eyes and supported by this part of the Senate Chamber. We all remember that, and we all know it. Poles know that too. Last year, Spain took advantage of, for example, the second semester. all the funds granted for this grant. The same has happened in the case of a large majority of the countries of the European Union. Could Poland afford, through this government, not to use these funds? Well, of course not. Let me remind you that these are the means... they were the means I'm not just talking about an advance. For the reconstruction of our health care, for the reconstruction of our education, for the support of our economy, for innovation, for new technologies, and therefore for things in which time is money, in which time counts as much as any euro in this advance. Okay, but this is an advance. All funds for our country are EUR 24 billion in grants and EUR 12 billion in loans. Again. It's not 24,000 plus 12,000 zlotys, it's not 24 million plus 12 million zlotys, it's 24 billion euros plus 12 billion euros that have to be contracted by the end of next year. And again, time is running out. Poland thanks to this internally conflicted government Read more: The incompetent government lost a year of 3 years, from 2,5 years, which was intended for the contract. The Minister says we'll make it. Well, I remember, and you remember Minister Buda, who said in exactly the same place: don't be afraid, we'll make it. He said that last May. If I remember correctly the date, 30 April, a year ago, was submitted the final, as we were assured, option of the National Plan for Reconstruction to the European Commission. So? And it was supposed to be okay. And it was supposed to be okay. And everything was supposed to go fine. Well, only that the opposition, the opposition majority in the Senate, knew that these are empty assurances that these are further manipulations of the public opinion, that these are further lies that feed public opinion, so that they believe that everything in Poland and with Poland in the European Union is okay. We knew that this was not the case because the National Reconstruction Plan had its internal flaws. And we gave this expression on 27 May 2021 in the resolution adopted in this Chamber. We wrote about many shortcomings of the National Plan for Reconstruction in the PiS version and urged quite politely that the PiS government should take seriously the expectations of Poles and Poles. We wrote about this in point four, and I quote: "The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the government to respect and implement decisions and safeguards of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland notes that the non-respect and non-fulfilment of the aforementioned. judgments infringe the rule of law and also result in the risk of freezing or losing funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. This is the paragraph that refers to the fact that several judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the assassination of the independence of the judiciary in Poland have not been respected, including the fundamental judgment in which it was referred to the need to terminate the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court I should actually say, so-called. The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court established in breach of the rule of law. We talked about this all last year, we talked about it before. We've been reminding you. And now a lot of politicians running the group are fucking stupid. She fucks stupid when she says they're getting closer to the end of the deal with the European Commission or they're getting closer some time ago or they're getting closer soon. Finally, the head of the Commission had to remind that the same three conditions had been in force for several months and that nothing had changed in the European Commission's approach to the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction. 'Cause nothing could change. And that these conditions are further resolved by the Disciplinary Chamber, the restoration of judges who were illegally expelled from work, and finally the change of the system, disciplinary mechanism in Polish judiciary. Now there are eighth grade exams. Really, Polish children must learn much more material than 3 basic truths. And Polish children master this material. It is so hard to learn these 3 points, repeated by the European Commission as a mantra since last year? After all, it was known here that nothing would change. And therefore, this stretching of strings, which takes place in front of our eyes, must be classified as a punch line, Mr. Marshal, as the biggest financial scandal in the history of funds from the European Union, which Poles and Poles belong to. It's 100 percent, 100% The fault of the ruling camp. 100%. Because it's a ruling camp, knowing what he should have done, he didn't do it. Why? Because he didn't want to do it. Because he wants to guarantee impunity for his officials, from the top level to the bottom of the PiS nomenclature. Because he chose impunity at the expense of many billion PLN for Poland. Let me remind you once again that time runs inexorably. I think everyone in this room has a sense of déjà vu, hearing from the Minister today that final decisions will soon be adopted. We heard that last year. We do not believe this and therefore demand that Poland, Poles and Poles close the Disciplinary Chamber immediately and meet the other conditions of the European Commission. Because these terms... That's the last sentence. [[Timer signal]] Because these conditions are conditions which will not only enable Poles and Poles to exercise all financial powers, but also ensure the right to an impartial, objective court. There is no reason why a Frenchman, a Dutchman or a Belgian would enjoy more judicial protection than a Polish or a Polish. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u20	Mr. Senator, time's up. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, senator. [[Applause]] I would like to remind the senators that we have a 10-minute speaking time limit in this respect. I can assure you that if I could be present in this debate, I would certainly respect the 10-minute limit. Well, I can't perform. I wanted to be in it, but I was misplaced at the time. I can assure you that if it weren't for this malice, if I could speak, I would certainly abide by that limit. And I'm asking you to do the same. Please, Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A year ago, in the Senate, when we discussed a document that concerns the National Reconstruction Plan, the High House was under enormous pressure. You're remembering that fight. We wanted to discuss a very important, very important document on the chances of reconstruction for two weeks. It was two weeks, only two weeks. In the media, especially on TVP, there was a ride, that here the Senate prolongs this very important process, and Poles want to get money immediately. It was a year ago. It was a year ago. How are you two weeks a year? How are they? The Minister is coming out today and he says: we're already at the end, we've already got it all figured out. Blah, blah, blah, words, words, words, that doesn't mean anything. In the case of this government, it doesn't mean anything, you can say anything. The facts are that apart from the words of the PiS storytellers, nothing else confirms this information, nothing. There is no Commission position that negotiations have been concluded. She's just blah, blah, blah. Have we heard anything specific today? Do you know from this side of the room the final document, which is called the National Reconstruction Plan? No. The Minister has concluded negotiations, but there is no document, he will only be approved by the government. Is this the end of the negotiations or not? Which part did he lie about? Well, which one? Or maybe you even have a habit of lying, and you don't get to tell the truth. In fact, it's only when you're wrong that you're telling the truth. The Minister said they consulted them. One of the senators even asked about the opposition parties. I'm the one who's going to talk about it because I've been seeing people who represent all kinds of NGOs, environmental organisations, employers' organisations. The head of the Green Economy Institute is here with us, former Environment Minister, Mr Marcin Korolec, whom I very much welcome. He was one of the people who theoretically participated in this negotiation and discussion process. The only problem is that they actually did. They, or representatives of these NGOs, discussed all the elements of the National Plan for Reconstruction, and at the end turned out to be... Yeah, they sent that piece of work, sent what they had to discuss to the government. Do you know what the reaction was? They didn't get a reply. Not that anyone's talking to them. They didn't get a reply. This is the kind of negotiation. That's how you negotiate. This is the real picture of the PiS. You actually have a respectable social side. You're not very interested in talking to her. And indeed there is drama, because the money from this fund must be spent, we must complete the projects by August 2026. We've already escaped over 20% of our time. This time is forever lost. If someone says they've already spent $4 billion... We're not talking about four billion. With all due respect, if someone wants to joke, they can tell jokes in Gdynia or in another part of the world. In the Senate, we expect rather serious speeches. This isn't serious. Nothing. The billions that the government has asked for... That's 58 billion, and that's what Senator Klich was talking about. But the government could raise the pot by 22 billion, because that's what we can get in loan form. This form of loan is also very interesting for Poland, for Polish entrepreneurs, for the Polish environment. A document called KPO does not meet the basic criteria. I have to refer to the old version, because the Minister didn't say anything about the new version. So what am I supposed to refer to? He was invited to the High House and ignored it in its entirety, which means that he also ignored the Senators of the PiS so that it wouldn't be there. He didn't say anything about what the current shape of the document looks like. We didn't know what he looked like. Is he changed? To what extent is it changed? Did he really stay, even in this part that I am extremely interested in, repaired, I am talking about the part about green transformation, green economy Didn't he stay? One of the elements described as an absolute condition by the European Commission is the principle that 37% This appropriation is intended to cover climate change. There is also the principle that expenditure in the remainder must not cause significant environmental damage. I didn't count it. One known foundation, Instrat, calculated that only 18.6% It's written for climate purposes in a document we know. The Minister did not say whether this document had changed, so I must refer, unfortunately, only to a document which is widely known. And he doesn't meet the criteria. Nor does it comply with the principle of not causing significant damage. Today in Poland, after the outbreak of the war, after 24 February, there is a serious debate about the departure from the use of gas and fossil fuels, about the deputization of the country, and in this document there are a number of entries that say that money will be devoted to investments related to the charging points of cars for gas, buses for gas. Do we want to move away from gas or do we want to strengthen the gas market? We didn't find out. The Minister has known for a long time that there will be such a debate, so even in this regard he should give us information. He didn't. He wasn't. Maybe he'll still do it, I hope so quietly, preferably in writing, of course. I would like to see this final document, already negotiated, if it really exists, because it seems that it does not yet exist and that therefore you have not yet completed the negotiations. But the minister says what he says. What's left for us? The document also fails to meet requirements in other parts, such as the production of electric cars. Do you still believe that? In the old KPO, you saved money for the production of electric cars. Let me remind you that these cars must be that the factory must be built and that the cars must start sliding off the production line until August 2026. Who believes that? At least one hand up from this side. Does anybody believe that? Nobody. Nobody believes that. But it's written down, and the minister didn't say it had already been deleted. He didn't say anything. I could list a whole range of investments recorded in this document. I think I'd hit a point every time. But I'd like to take a few moments. 'Cause the marshal is about to take my voice away from the future and those milestones that are important. Immediately there must be a bill on abolishing the rule of 10H, if we have really, really think about rebuilding wind power plants, because the time to invest in wind power plants in the reality of Poland is 8 years. There's eight years between the idea and putting it into service. Without decommissioning 10H... It's gonna be really hard for us to make it anyway. An amendment of PEP 2040, i.e. Poland's energy programme, is immediately needed until 2040. There must be a plan for the development of RES. There must be a change in programmes such as clean air to move away from the financing of gas installations. These are elements that cannot be achieved without goals. And I have to refer in two sentences to the document that was produced by the NGO, the NGOs I was talking about. These people really focused on 4 challenges and 4 areas that are important from the point of view of Poland. Co-financing, they use that term. degassing is about eliminating or reducing carbon dioxide emissions under the Clean Air programme. This is quite well described in this document. I advise you to take advantage of the experience of Marcin Korolc and other people who work there who will be happy to help. Strengthening public transport, but moving towards zero-carbon rather than low-carbon. So that's like, uh... electric buses, energy stores for prosumers and business and smart power grids. There is no other chance, without the modernisation, the expansion of the electricity grids will not succeed, which should accompany us during the war in Russia, to achieve. So you're going away from... [[Timer signal]] ...use of fossil fuels is the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. and rules for the management and monitoring of funds within the framework of the KPO. You've set up a follow-up committee for the truth. Only, as I remember from my experience, monitoring committees were represented by different environments, in the same proportions: government, government, NGOs. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] You guys did it your way. You want to control everything. You don't care about anything. Therefore, I do not expect that this document will be adopted quickly and that Poles will soon see the money. And I'm saying this... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...with care. I wish I hadn't, because all you're doing is hurting Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u22	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to remind you of a 10-minute limit that the senators themselves have established in the Senate Rules of Procedure. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll talk about health, of course. I know that the Minister does not know about this and that health is not the most important topic for the government, but for many people, especially in the post-pandemic period, this reconstruction in the health care system and the money to be directed towards improving health is very important repair. But for starters, I have this thought: I am just getting lost, because on the one hand I hear that we do not need European funds, we have enough money and, on the other hand, there are negotiations and we need to speed up the spending of European funds as well. So it's inconsistent. Another inconsistency is that, when we demanded a year ago, we asked that the KPO project should be readable, so that everyone who is interested in particular areas could know what and what money is being directed, then we were criticized in the Senate for prolonging that it is the obstruction of the Senate, that by the Senate money would not enter Poland. Now, after a year, we're in exactly the same place. Exactly the same place! Moreover, when I ask the experts who are also involved in European law and have contacts in Europe, what has been changed, how the health KPO has been redesigned, what is now being shifted, what measures are most important, nobody can answer these questions because this project is secret. Nobody knows what happened out there. In terms of health, there are two major challenges. These aren't just popandemical issues. We still have absolutely no strategy for further cataclysms and epidemics. I'm not talking about autumn, I'm not talking about the next season, but I'm talking about the future, about what's going to happen in five and ten years, because scientists and politicians are already thinking about what's going to happen in this period. We focus, as always, on here and now. And here and now we have a war abroad. There are plenty of Ukrainians and children on our territory. And we also need good health care for them, which was guaranteed by the Polish government. But in order to do that, we need a health care system, we need staff. Once the accents are spread out in KPO, we don't know. One of the main topics It's obviously infrastructure. Yes, the infrastructure is needed. Hospitals need to be equipped. The question is how and what criteria should be followed. Because the record of county hospitals is absolutely general. And if we impose a bill on this, which is currently in consultation and there are more than 2 000 comments on hospitalization and hospital reform, then my question is: should KPO focus only on hospitals and accessories, on rebuilding the entire hospital base, or should it take into account everything that is most important besides hospitalization? Because children from Ukraine and mothers from Ukraine don't go straight to the hospital. They go to the family doctor, to the psychologist, to the psychiatrist unfortunately, and this system must be built. We need reinforcements outside the hospital. We need to compensate for inequalities in health, access to health, because the health area is efficiency, quality and availability, and not just money for equipment, for the exchange of CAT scanners and various other necessary, I do not deny, but not the most important elements in the whole system. As I said at the beginning, we were strongly criticised for wanting to know how much money would go into infrastructure and how much money, for example. for innovative therapies. Unfortunately, in this recent period, the issue of money for innovation, for new medicines, for new therapies has been forgotten. And even though the producers, the pharmacists said that they were able to start building the right capital in Poland so that Poland would also be protected in terms of medicine, I do not hear any progress in this regard. Coordination is also a very important element. Because we have the money from the so-called. a soft cohesion policy that guarantees the development of all these soft elements, e.g. related to care in the countryside. Then we have funds from KPO to rebuild infrastructure, but we also have unused funds from the previous edition. So there's a financial mix. So shouldn't Poles know how this money will be used to rebuild this system, not to mention the future, to match European standards? If we don't bet on health, we don't bet on health care, medical staff and equal opportunities in health, That's what I'm prophesying. In a short time, there will be a really big disaster and politicians will be responsible for making such decisions at the moment, not other decisions. We've paid the highest price, we're second in the world in terms of the number of deaths. It's just drama. At the moment, the latest publication of the CSO reports: an increase in deaths of 42 000 in 2021 compared to 2020; more than 519 000 people died, including mainly men, men of working age. Do you know how to develop an economy without health support? This is a priority, Minister, and you haven't said a word about it. [[Applause]] In conclusion, I will quote the words that personally appalled me. Minister Müller said that the prospect of September after the negotiations that we have concluded... the settlement of the KPO will come to July or August. Well, unfortunately, European bureaucracy is the kind of European mills that take longer. What kind of shoe you have to have in order to formulate a sentence for a year of doing nothing and just haggling about political stools. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm going to start by quoting how appropriate that is to what we're talking about today. Plutarch said a few centuries ago: empty barrels and fools make a lot of noise. If you don't like this quote, maybe a little bit closer, with Shakespeare: empty vessels make the most noise. A lot of noise, a lot of fuss, you guys can do it. You and this Union already made a deal a year ago. Matthew Morawiecki then spoke to us, directed it to everyone: we put aside calculations, the good of the Republic counts. And that's how you care about the welfare of the Republic that the money from the National Program for Reconstruction has not yet been seen. And you're talking about how I'm going to quote Minister Horala: we're putting delays on the timeline; we've got a mechanism to deal with it; very few people know what the risks are with large investments in KPOs are, yes, you know that very well. We analyze these risks. You have no shame. Poles are waiting for this money. If you don't know what trust is in your words, I'll tell you. Trust in the Polish government is less than 30%, trust in the European Union is twice as much, more than twice as much. Take it to heart and just don't lie. Don't you have anything agreed? Unlike your government, the European Commission is guided by decisions. Court of Justice... Court of Justice of the European Union said that there are three conditions that we must fulfil in order to receive money from European funds. The first is the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. What are you guys doing? Even in your own circle, you can't figure out whether you're eliminating or changing or transforming or just calling it something else. One thing we know is you're fucking with us. The second condition is to reinstate the judges you politically threw out of court. How do you bring it back? You have decisions of the court ordering you to return Judge Juszczyszyn. In the meantime, what's going on? Your protégé, who you once again called to the National Council of Courts, Judge President Nawatski, has deep respect for the judicial decision and does not restore even this one judge We're talking about Judge Paul Juszczyszyn. Even though he has a judgment ordering him to do so. What else does the Court of Justice of the European Union say? The Court of Justice of the European Union also talks about the third condition: moving away from political disciplinary proceedings. Who do you have? You've got disciplinary officials and a bunch of judges who, in haters' groups, are guessing how to vilify other judges. That's how you implement the rule of law. [[Applause]] In fact, this situation is the biggest scandal of the 30th anniversary, after 1989. This is not your money, it is the money of Poles and Poles who have the right to expect that this money will be transferred to Poland and invested in Poland. You can't do this because you're like the Olsen gang. Whatever you're gonna do. You know what it's like to end it. You're gonna ruin this. The truth is, I already assume that you can't handle anything with the European Commission. You're just telling us and telling us that you really want to do it. And what's the scale of the challenge? In the National Reconstruction Plan... It was 24 billion grants and 12 billion loans. With today's course of PLN 4 64 for EUR 1 is over PLN 160 billion. Your cynicism, your inability, your failure keep us waiting for that money. One who knows a great deal about European funds, one who has great confidence in the European Parliament in terms of experience and knowledge of how these mechanisms work I'm talking about Europe, Jan Olbrycht. He says with care: the deadlines are tight, 70% the activities must be carried out this year and the whole by 2026. In other European countries, national reconstruction programmes are being extended. Other countries today do not discuss how to fix the rule of law in order to have the opportunity to return to discussions with the European Union at all. Other countries are expanding these programmes today, for example. to national recovery programmes, financing the tasks related to the departure from hydrocarbons. What are you guys What stage are you at? You're wondering if you're gonna execute a court order to reinstate one of the judges. Do a dozen colleagues I'm not gonna use the word "guys" from the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court more important than 38 million Poles? I'm really ashamed, I'm ashamed, because our citizens are listening to this discussion. I wonder what you will tell the Poles if you do not close these negotiations immediately. In fact, I'm not curious because we already know everything. There's an interview from Minister Waldemar Buda in early May: It's time for Brussels. Well, it really is a sense of humor worth the prize on Mazury Cabaret Night. What did you two agree on? You didn't agree on anything. Today you're telling citizens that whatever you've agreed on, all you need is one simple thing, three points you don't have to agree on. You just have to make it happen. I will summarize this discussion, emotional, on my part, full of pain and concern, because in respect you have had decades of efforts, which were before Poland joined the European Union, the efforts of governments of all political options that really enforced the rules and changed the laws in order to realize the dream of Poles to enter the European Union. If you do not understand and respect these dreams of our citizens, look beyond the eastern border. Today, Ukrainians give their lives in defence of values such as the right to free choice, which later results in joining the institutions to which the nation wants to join. The Polish nation said that Poland's place is in the European Union, and you are informally, but in practice you are bringing Poland out of this Union. Aren't you ashamed? Today you have so many words on your lips about helping Ukrainians who are fighting to join the European Union to be a safe country in the future, a country in pacts that they choose, whether economic or military. And today, in practice, you are moving our common Poland out of the European Union. After all, we all know that the biggest security policy for all our citizens is Poland's membership of the European Union and the North Atlantic Pact. On the one hand, you have a mouthful of words about defending these institutions and supporting Ukraine, so that it can follow the Polish way, and on the other hand you bring us out of these institutions. You guys really aren't ashamed? How are you gonna explain this to the next generation? Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer expect any declarations from you today, no words. As soon as possible, adopt a bill eliminating the Supreme Court's Disciplinar Chamber, as soon as possible restore to the work of the judges you have suspended, exclude from judgment, repair the process of appointing judges. Finally, move away from disciplinary action, which is political in nature. In fact, it's best if you leave at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a saying that I actually invented, namely, who's late, doesn't make speeches. I volunteered late and, unfortunately, almost everything I would like to say has already been said. So my speech will be very short and satisfying, especially for your marshal. I just want to quote one sentence because it rained, but not so specific. I would just like to quote one sentence from the letter from President von der Leyen to the Euro-parliamentarians. And the sentence was as follows: 3 terms and conditions, we already know what, because they were mentioned here. They are milestones; before any payments are made from the Reconstruction Fund, Poland must prove that it has filled the milestones. Well, I don't think you can. And you, Minister, haven't even gotten too excited about this case. Something you two agreed on about the Disciplinary Chamber... It's not quite clear, either, that you've agreed, because you haven't gotten it right here, so it's hard to get it right there. As far as the other cases are concerned, we know what they look like. Senator Kwiatkowski has just discussed this widely. So, ladies and gentlemen, the perspective is simply terrible. She's a mess. We see how this government works and what the process of internal reconciliation looks like, where a microscopic game At the moment, he has a nickname for Mr. Zbigniew Ziebra simply decides what the government does or doesn't do. And it decides that there are no 24 billion. We can, of course, talk about 4 billion for now, but if it goes on like this, 24 billion won't be there. I also remember the speech of the chief storyteller of the Republic of Poland, President of Glapiński, who said that we do not need loans at all. It's us he's been talking about, they come in line to borrow money. And today we have a situation where our bonds go up to 7%. [[Six times more...]] It's 7%. That means they don't want to lend us money, unless we pay big interest. Well, that's it. There have already been strong words here, so I will no longer repeat them or try to beat them. But all I can say is, Minister, you either don't know what you're saying or, worse than that, you know what you're saying, but in the latter case, you're just saying the wrong thing. And this can only end with one thing: shame, embarrassment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u28	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Oh, and the senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was watching this embarrassing show, the way you guys are taking it out on our government. You did everything you could to make it difficult. And it is a real shame that Polish parliamentarians in the European Union should act against their own state. The government does everything, prepares any amendments, adapts to EU recommendations, although what we see... It looks like we're supposed to be serving the European Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're an equal state. [[Voice from the room: It's shocking. It's shocking.]] You're talking about things. You're talking about things that aren't always true. You're turning the cat's tail. You're talking about the health service that has always required, demanded and will require the care of the government. The senator was talking about how bad it is in Poz. I work at POZ, and I don't think anybody from POZ wants to leave, because as well as last time it's never been to POZ doctors. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as it was said, empty barrels and fools make the most noise. That's what you're saying. It's proof of that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. After the speeches of my previous speakers, I thought: everything has been said and we can only prolong this debate using similar arguments. But after speaking directly to my previous speaker, I must speak. It is extraordinary, Senator, that you, of us Poles, consider us to be servants of the European Union. We're not servants. We are full members of something that is ours is our Europe. And if we are demanding respect for civil rights, the rule of law, the separation of authorities, the law and the law, we are talking about human rights. We Europeans, Poles demand what free people have. Do you think it's service? Your government, your PiS government, denies these laws. I remember an interview from 2016 with President Kaczyński, who said: our vision of the state will be realized regardless of economic progress, even at the expense of national income we will realize our vision of the state. This interview went without an echo. Somehow no one took that threat seriously. Today we see how verbal the President of Law and Justice and the members of this party and the United Right are. So at the expense of national income, at the expense of every Polish family's income, you carry out your... well, so that I know what image the world is. Do you know what this picture of the world is? What is the picture of a country where a small part of society is made up of common assets? This is something that you're bothered by an independent judiciary. Destruction of human rights, degradation of persons, discreditation of persons, stubborn prosecution. Citizen's rights trampled on... This is the vision of the state you want to pursue? You say: we care about the quality of our money, we care about the value of Polish gold. A few days ago, large billboards disappeared from the National Bank of Poland, which declared it to the world. And it's good that they're gone because you don't care about the value of Polish gold; President Glapiński forgot about it exactly, but you chose him bravely for the next term. What does that mean? This means that 500+, this support for every Polish family today is already worth... Some say 360, others say 340. Have any of you recently come to pay the gas bill? If his cottage, dreamy, bought with heavy money and ever higher installments must burn propane-butane gas... Do you know how much it costs? Four thousand costs a thousand liters of gas like that. President Kaczyński and the ruling party have realized their brilliant picture of the world, in which more and more people are waiting for processes in which there are no more investors, because in a country where there is no stable law, no one wants to invest. Health care. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera just said what she looked like, what the prospects of this health care look like. We didn't want to take out low-interest loans, we're spending our bonds. Why? Did Minister Horała say something about this today? The National Plan for Reconstruction did not want to take the loan granted to Poland, which Poland paid for the first time to our European Union for the needs of EU citizens, including Poles of course. Where are you going? Where are you going with this vision of the state? What kind of state is it if, when you bring us out of the Union, you say: we don't want civil rights, we don't want justice, we don't want independence, because we don't have any other way? Unless we are free citizens of the free European Union, we will not be free citizens of Putin's authority. That's the perspective. This is what we're talking about in the context of the National Plan for Reconstruction after the pandemic, but we seem to be rebuilding the country after the PiS governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u32	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u33	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take these five minutes because I thought, Senator, that we're on the same side. We're doctors, we see what's going on in the system, we see people die, we see health indicators drop. I thought we understood the problem equally. I am not a servant of the Union, I am a partner. I am glad that I am in the Union because thanks to the Union we have innovation, because thanks to the Union we have vaccines on COVID. Otherwise, it would be even more tragic than it is right now. It seems to me that the government's policy was initially going to further expand the POZ, to improve the state of the POZ, because the government saw the need for residents to have access to a family doctor to improve the possibility of contact with a family doctor. The senator says it's so great at the P.O.O.S. I regret that today family doctors probably don't watch our debate in front of TV screens because they work hard, but I believe that these words about how great it is in POZ, they'll get to them, because it's in my sense of scandal. Recently, a doctor came to me, the president of P.O.P., and asked me what she was supposed to do, because two pediatricians retired, a doctor intern got sick and wouldn't go back to work, and she has her patient population. How's she gonna handle it? Exactly. How? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] The senator will, of course... Sure, sir. You're just a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I signed up at the end. I probably wouldn't have signed up if it wasn't for Senator Orzechowska. But it's not gonna be so polite anymore. It's been a good time. Ladies and gentlemen, exaltation cannot be covered by empty-headedness, lack of arguments. [[The voice in the room: The insulting is really...]] Exhalation is a certain state. It's hard to say if it's offensive. It's just a statement of fact. Second point, of a clean-up nature. I will speak on my behalf, so I would ask you not to transform it into a group as a whole, a minister, because then there will be some mention of polexit. Polexit is such a hammer. It used to be hammered with anti-Semitism, and now it's hammered with polexit. Well, KPO and everything that happens around it is actually a spatter of a larger whole. The fact is that we disagree on some issues with the European Union. Question: "Can it be that the internal element "because of course we are a member of the European Union, no one is questioning it, so the people decided in a referendum Can it not agree with the whole, with the majority? Of course I do. We have such examples in the family, in the simplest cell phone. Imagine that one of the elements might have a different opinion. The question is how such a cell, whether it is a family or a European Union, is organised, whether this opinion is respected, whether this kind of autonomy is supported, one that does not destroy or destroy this general organisation. This is a fundamental issue, ladies and gentlemen. And how to determine the situation in which the rest, this large organization, starts to damage the element, e.g. to the detriment of a single person in the family? Unfortunately, in the European Union, it is not the same Union that we imagined when we joined it, and it has to be said that law has become a secondary element, it is a tool to achieve certain goals and these goals are not always the same as the objectives of the whole and of the same element, namely Poland. Unfortunately, this is the case that the fundamental issue of the rule of law should be, I would call it, implemented from the top, in this case by the institutions of the European Union. That's where it should start. What's it like? There was a change in 2015. How was it before? Poland was a supplier of cheap labour, many young people emigrated. We've felt it so far. We are happy for the Ukrainians who are coming. But this flow of our blood was and so far we feel it. I remind you: investments that were in Poland... Roads arose, no one denies it, but also several hundred small Polish construction companies went bankrupt. That was the result, too. How much money was taken out of Poland... More than 200 billion were carried out by the so-called. VAT gap. That sounds nice, but let's face it, by stealing. To the Polish economy? No, outside. And it's over. The fundamental issues of economics are over, and in the past, the Union was only responsible for economics in quotes. Well, I don't like it anymore. Of course not. And by the way, other goals are being pursued. And there are different tools. The European Commission is responsible, I will call it in general, awfully, for the money. She's got the money, she's got the purse, she decides. The European Parliament is responsible for ideology in general. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fixation if, at the moment when there is the greatest conflict since World War II, a real armed conflict, the European Parliament does not speak about this conflict, but about the rule of law in Poland. That's what fixation is. There's a psychological phenomenon. If you don't know how to get out of a situation, it's either because of aggression, or because of apathy, or because you're fixing, what's the problem, and you're under stress. And recently, the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has less and less in common with the law, has become another tool. In what process, apart from ideological and economic? In the process, I would call it fundamental primacy: what is more important, whether Union law or the law of a sovereign state? This is indeed a fundamental issue. Our Constitutional Tribunal, in accordance with our constitution, claims that EU law, as far as the constitution is concerned, is subject to: first the Constitution and then the law of the European Union, international treaties, etc. And the TSUE says otherwise. And the question is, what's it gonna end with, because there's these three battlefields. I hope this will end well and I am simply hoping for the sobriety that will take place in the EU institutions. What gives me hope? Contrary to appearances, something that is kind of out of the way, but which has recently resulted: the way the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany behaved in relation to the conflict in Ukraine, as long as it is not pretended but actual behavior. For the first time, they admit that they are wrong, and so far they have always been right. Refugees? They're right, we're wrong, we'll pay. After all, your guru Donald Tusk said it had to do with the consequences. [[It's ours, it's true. We're proud of our...]] Yes, sir. And what does that mean? That it is true that those who have so far been infallible and infallible, in fact wrong, who do not well anticipate the effects of their political actions or understand these effects, and yet acting only for their own good, will act for the good of the whole. Because, as you can see, in the case of what they're proposing, it's the other way around. Only climate policy has not yet been tested. Refugees checked, policies against Putin, generally against the Eastern Neighbours. Let me put it this way: until now, unfortunately, there is such a saying that you do not know how to do, ask someone and do the opposite. Unfortunately, at the moment, it is still the case that most of the processes, of course the main ones that are implemented in the Union by the EU institutions, are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of these fundamental processes, Eastern policy, as regards the issue not of refugees, but of immigrants, we were right, we as Poland in general. We should be proud that we are now giving the tone maybe not development, because it is too big a word, but the direction in which the European Union is heading. And I am counting on the fact that European societies, but also institutions that are not autonomous, in the sense that they are not elected and do not have a placet, except for Parliament, but it is not actually the Parliament itself that does not have democratic elections at the basis of their origins... Well, I hope that these institutions will think about the whole of the Union, including Poland in this Union, not on such a principle that one of the countries or the duo that led the Union so far is right and the rest must submit. The rest, i.e. Poland as well. [[27:1.]] You've got some problems, I can tell. Ladies and gentlemen, it says something about you as well... Please note that we sit quietly and listen calmly to what you say... [[Because you have nothing to say.]] ...and you, unfortunately, are interrupting all the time. You can, of course, but that's what you guys are about, about your lack of culture. So that I, contrary to appearances, am optimistic because I hope we didn't join a group of political suicides, I apologize for the harsh expression. That we're all gonna grow because... [[Timer signal]] ...if not, it's just the rest of the world will verify us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Peanut.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of my previous speakers said the very right words, I fully agree: it is not your money, it is the money of Poles and Poles. It is true, the money that the European Union owes us right now is the money of Poles and Poles. That's development money. This is the money that's being held at the moment. You've said something like this many times: hand over the government, we'll take over all of this, and then we'll automatically unlock the money. Good. But in 2015, I remember this, the senator also probably remembers that Minister Radziwiłł, who took over the Ministry of Health... [[And he flew out fast.]] They then worked in the Ministry until midnight on 31 December 2015 to save the money which the European Union has allocated to Poland, but to which there were not properly prepared programs. And 100% too. Everything couldn't be recovered, for this simple reason... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: It's 2022.]] ...that this government only worked for two months. In two months, we couldn't make up for the shortcomings of several years. We say that this is a Union of equal states. This should be the Union of equal states. That's why I, as a Polish woman, feel no worse than a Frenchman, a German. I think that each of us, regardless of political options, should be proud of being a Pole, and should work for our own country. You're talking about the richness of the units. Sale of assets or actually distribution of national assets, wealth of individual individuals at the expense of A lot of other... Since 2015, I have been dealing with the affairs of many of my constituents who have been injured in various cases. Ladies and gentlemen, let's all fight on one side. Let us all fight for our homeland, for Poland. And maybe going back to those POZs... We forgot that many doctors went abroad, that many doctors were even forced to go away because medical rates were very low. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Let them go...]] E.g. That's what they said. [[Senator Beat Małecka-Libera: Yes, yes.]] ...and that's what your guru said. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: For a long time this should...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But right now there's an increase in the number of students, and the number of doctors who work... And show me a P.O.O. doctor who wants out of this, if it's not related to the fact that he's already retired and unable to work, or he's sick enough that he can't work either. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please stop practicing demagoguey. Let's start fighting for our homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u39	Two of my fine speakers, Senator Orzechowska and Senator Czerwinski, I must be very concerned. Namely, indeed, the reality is verifying your views. On Monday last week, a conference on the future of Europe ended, in which we had the pleasure of attending as representatives of the Senate with Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. Notabene, we were equal, there were five parliamentarians from the opposition and five parliamentarians from the ruling party. But your views among the citizens of the Member States of the European Union are a significant minority. You're in a radical minority, you can say you're isolated. At the end of this conference, a report was adopted, consisting of 49 recommendations and over 300 different recommendations on them. And all recommendations are based on the principle of more Union. Citizens of the European Union expect more of the European Union. For the first time in the history of the European Union, taking into account the history of the Communities since the 1950s and of the Union since the Maastricht Treaty, a conference was organised involving citizens at whom European Union citizens, who are not senators, who are not Members, who are not European parliamentarians, only European Union citizens, have spoken. They spoke through their voices, proposals placed on the digital platform, which worked for a year and where tens of thousands of different proposals were made. And out of these dozens of proposals, these recommendations were made, which I will once again stress. They are talking about the need to strengthen the European Union. The citizens of the European Union are in favour of the principle of more Europe. They are not in favour of more Europe everywhere, as was the case at the convention, you remember Giscard d'Estaing, but they are in favour of increasing the role of the European Union in selected areas, as I said, is 49 of them. in health policy. The citizens of the European Union want to see a health union, which has not yet been there. They want the competences reserved to the Member States to be shared between the European Union and the Member States to improve health protection in all Member States of the European Union. The citizens of the Union are also in favour of enhancing the Union's competences in the field of internal security and external security. They say, among other things. the need to move away from the principle of unanimity as regards the common foreign policy and the security of the European Union. It is necessary to discuss this so that it is clear, it is not, for example. For me, of course. I'm talking about this because in security policy and defence policy and health policy and competition policy and climate policy and politics... As far as the rule of law is concerned, the citizens of the European Union are calling for greater control of the rule of law in the various countries of the European Union. The citizens of the European Union want for example. changes, extending the application of the famous Conditionality Regulation not only to protect the Union budget but very widely, to protect civil rights, citizens' rights to an impartial and objective court. Citizens also want Art. The 7th Treaty on European Union was amended to make it possible to better influence countries departing from the rule of law in their territory. On behalf of who? On behalf of the citizens of these countries. [[Timer signal]] And that's why... Ladies and gentlemen, this train is moving forward, this train is moving at increasing speed. We cannot allow ourselves to lose the necessary time and stay at the bus stop that led us to the PiS government. This is the case with regard to the future of the European Union and with regard to the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, for which we are lacking... We've lost a year because of the PiS government. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u40	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm going to start with an element that's very important to me. It requires some polemics, and it involves a permanent repetition that the Civic Platform, in short, quotes in Poland in Brussels or Strasbourg, in the European Union, in the European institutions. I would like to strongly deny and say that, as a member of the EPP in the years 2015 and 2019, I have witnessed many times, as it was the members of the Civic Platform that held back all initiatives aimed at debating Poland in the European Parliament. Once again, I would like to emphasise: the members of the Civic Platform in the EPP Group have been holding back various urges to debate Poland in the European Parliament. And that is quite contrary to the PiS MEPs belonging to the EKR Group. Both in 2014 and 2015 and earlier, in 2012, it is on their initiative that I stress: on their initiative Their political group ECR held various debates, wrote requests, suggested debates, suggested public hearings on various issues, both large and much less serious. Even Legia Warszawa became the subject of a request, letter, complaint. It was about the rent, as I recall. But it was an initiative from Poland, an initiative of specific people belonging to the Law and Justice. In 2015, as I recall, there was a request by Minister Błaszczak to the European Commission, notabene, on this matter, and in 2014 the most important request for debate, in short, to report on Poland, on the conviction of fraudulent elections. That's the one thing I want to shut him down so there's no doubt about it and make amends to the truth. The second thing is more disturbing to me. In recent years, we are really moving away from Europe, from the European institutions, but above all from Europe. I am very concerned about this when it comes to the attitude towards European measures, both the very large ones and the more modest ones, but very important ones. I remember these first years of replying to a possible request for specific measures with so much scepticism from many ministers, not one or two mentioned in this debate. I remember the excellent scepticism of the previous Minister of Defence, telling us not to participate, not to participate, not to enter into such cooperation as those European measures which were intended for security and defence. In the end, we were in this pot, it was only 0.5 billion at the beginning, but I warned, being still a European parliamentarians, here in the Senate, at the Senate committee meeting, that these measures would be much more, because the perspective was outlined then. We've lost a lot. Another issue that concerns me is all that concerns space research science, especially Galileo and Copernicus satellite systems. The space agency, with repeated personal changes, has led to a situation of extremely humiliated participation in this research, development research, which we could have been a significant subject. We are still involved in this, but we are talking about small actors who take such activities on their own initiative, without the right to do so. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. Support from the institution which was set up for this purpose under the PO-PSL regime. And one last thing. I started by being a brake for various debates. Well, we showed some optimism then, perhaps naivety. But I remember perfectly how we used the argument that it was Minister Waszczykowski who invited the Venice Commission to Warsaw to determine whether what was happening at the time That was five years ago. It requires a certain adjustment, a change in whether it is appropriate or not. And we used this argument, this invitation, we said that, well, probably the government would hold back its various urges of breaking the constitution in this case. The opinion of the Venice Commission was devastating. What happened to her? She ended up in the trash can. I share this opinion, which emerged during the debate, that today's opposition is doing a great deal to ensure that we do not break out of this European Union, in short, so that we do not pay too high the price of this distance, which is at present. But it requires understanding, some empathy and speed of action, because you have to remember that the year of this loss, when inflation is 10%, 11%, 12% , means that we have lost de facto 5 billion, gently counting on inflation alone, already almost a billion on penalties, and on delay probably a few billion in euros I'm talking about the euro all the time. And these are losses, from the interest of the Polish state, the Polish reason of the state, unforgivable and I will immediately add that they should be punishable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u42	Thank you. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The only reason why we are having this debate here today is obvious and, I believe, by no one the undisputed fact that Poland is today a country that has not received money from the European Union's Reconstruction Fund. Because this money should be in Poland, as I think we all claim, and they are not in Poland, we are debating. As senators, no matter whether the government or the opposition, whether they identify with the government or with the opposition, we have the right to discuss it. One of the senators who wondered why some senators who think they're patriots get upset when their country gets hurt, I refer them to patriotic readings. Always, Mr Senator, Polish patriots, when their country was hurt, were nervous and always Polish patriots were acting against those who opposed the situation in their country, and acted against this country, regardless of whether it was Poles, because it was there, whether it was alien, because it was there. If some Poles tried to misrule and lead them in the wrong direction, then yes, Poles reacted emotionally, Poles rebelled against it. Against which today is the anger that the senator rightly saw in the senators representing these 80% Poles who want to be in the European Union? Why are you so angry? This anger is because the money we should have in Poland, and we do not have it, does not go to our country just because, I will refer to this analogy about family, about how we should treat ourselves in the family, and suddenly it turns out that one member of the family completely different from everyone else understands such a concept as violence in the family, and he says this: I like to discuss with my wife in such a way that I use my fists in this discussion. This is my sovereign right, and please stay out of it, because we didn't agree that you would interfere in my affairs. And if, God forbid, your wife calls the police, it's obviously gonna be interference in family matters. Using only such twisted hypocrisy, we can accuse anyone in the European Union who is complaining that his laws are being violated in a Member State... I want to say yes. That is why we entered the European Union and that is why in the 1990s we were encouraged to join the European Union Jarosław Kaczyński so that we could be protected by European standards. Those were his words from that time. Poland must aspire to the West, then said Jarosław Kaczyński, because if post-communists in Poland again gained power and wanted to drag us back into some post-communist, as he called it, climates, then we will have security I'm talking about the '90s. In the form of European values, so that no one can push us towards communism. It was a valid diagnosis of Jarosław Kaczyński, a very correct diagnosis. But she's right today. We need the European Union so that no one can push us in the wrong direction again. And understanding democratic freedoms, Mr Senator, of what the justice and human rights systems should look like, that is the fundamental principle on which a community such as the European Union must be founded. And here, Mr. Senator. It is difficult for me to say this, and it is difficult, to say that it is difficult to grant you and your colleagues the right to have a completely different vision of the rule of law than I, the European Union and we all have here, on the other hand, to grant you the right to a completely different understanding of the rule of law, I cannot tell you honestly and honestly: if you continue to think this way and want to build the kind of Poland that your leader in the field of justice has dreamed of doing, you will always have trouble with the European Union. I'm telling you this as honestly as I can. Because this model just doesn't fit into the European model! And if you want to be completely honest with what you are saying, then you have to say to Poles: the vision of Europe we want does not fit with this vision, which is today mostly in Europe. Well, you guys even have a moral right. You just don't do it weirdly. Add: we tried, a few months ago we set up a coalition to change this Europe, just to make Europe the way one senator said it, which is to be more national, more conservative. You made an alliance to change this Europe. The problem is that besides you in this alliance is Viktor Orbán, the ally of Putin, is Mrs. Le Pen, the ally of Putin, and there is Mr. Salvini, not only the ally of Putin, but directly funded by Putin. And if you start telling Poles what Europe you really want and what Europe you are fighting with the European Union for today, in the name of which Europe Poles are not getting this money today, you would have to say to Poles: you do not get this money because our vision of Europe is exactly the same as the vision of Mr Putin, Mr Orbán, Mr Salvini and Mrs Le Pen, and this is a vision that is losing in Europe. So we as Poland today are on the losing side only because it is you who rule and do not want to, you cannot be on the side of the winners. Because today, in Europe and in the east of Europe, the vision of freedom prevails. Even that evolution you rightly extorted, the senator. It is right to point out also the other side of the policy of German chadection, which in Poland was awarded with applause too often or always... But do you not need to hold your head by pulling out this German chadition that your leader is criticizing the new German government breaking up with Mrs Merkel's politics and breaking up with the policy of chadition, the left-liberal government calling it the creation of the Fourth Reich? Well, it's such an absurd charge against the German left and German liberals that it's harder to be absurd! You can't on one side... Well, just because Germany is a democratic country and governments can change like that. It may be that for some years there is a policy going in some direction and then this direction is being corrected. But they, praise God, in Germany and in no other country, are not corrected in fundamental matters. And that's really what we're after, because... At least as far as I'm concerned, I don't blame the PiS for winning the election. He had the right to win the election. I did everything I could to make it different, but we lost twice, we lost twice. You guys won. Except that I am saying that what you promised Poles was a correction of Polish policy, not its fundamental change. And I'm saying that the majority of the votes you've been given is the majority for changing politics, but not for turning it upside down! And leaving Poland from Europe, this unnecessary conflict with the European Union of values, in which you have entered consciously and in which you are stuck, even though everything around you It shows you that they are losing, your allies are hitting militaryly, politically and ideologically... There is no point in being on this side, because while you are on the side of the losers in this conflict for freedom, you also put Poland into this conflict. And there is no place for the brightest Republic of Poland more absurd than not to be on the side of those who want freedom. That's where we belong! Today, the European Union, with all its shortcomings, of course, needs to be talked about and can be said... After all, you have as law and justice so many well-paid Euro MPs that you have the full opportunity to reform this European Union from the inside. The only question is, who are you doing this with? I repeat that question. Today, however, it is worth focusing on the fact that the European Union primarily guarantees us, our neighbours and everyone else in the European Union an unprecedented period of peace and prosperity in the history of our continent. That is why we are in the European Union because we want peace and prosperity. And really many things in Poland would have gone better if you understood this simple truth. European policy, freedom policy should not be the subject of a dispute in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u44	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to raise a slightly different context or answer other arguments of the power camp. It is said that this is a dispute in which on one side is Polish sovereignty, on the other side is the unauthorised action of the European Union, European values. Let me put it this way, it's not my perspective. The actions of the power camp are primarily a destruction of the Polish constitutional tradition and Polish constitutional norms. Let's just take this as an experiment. The European Union is not interested in this for some reason. Would we be okay with that? Well, from my point of view, it would never have been okay to do so, because we are dealing with the total expropriation of justice, which is precisely the quadruple derogatory of the Constitutional Tribunal, the formation of the Supreme Court, so that it is an instrument linked to the political authority, the liquidation of the judiciary and the merger of the function of Minister of Justice with the Prosecutor General in a direct manner. Of course it is not in any civilized country, but these are things that are completely contrary to the Polish constitutional tradition, with what the creators of the independent Polish system created in 1918, with an attitude, with a line of independence, with the doctrine of Polish law. You can talk about the various arrangements between political power and the legal world, but you must not accept what is absolute, total expropriation. I mean, to take over all the institutions managing the judiciary by the leadership of the political party. I have never raised a dispute about the rule of law in the European forum. I did not speak on this subject as a member of the European Parliament. I followed that rule. And, to tell you the truth, I am not really interested in the European perspective. I am interested in violating the Polish Constitution. And the fact that this results in the European Union's response is absolutely inevitable. Because if we had a civilized government in Poland and things like that were to happen in Romania and Malta, we would probably react in the same way as European countries or many European countries react. This is simply a bad result of actions in the form of diplomatic isolation of Poland and in the form of damage related to the fact that countries much richer than us, which have aggregated their assets, because they have not experienced wars, or have not experienced wars on such a scale as we have... Italians, for example. This is a country whose power is to accumulate wealth for over a thousand years. They are asking for these means, they have sought these means, even though it is a society far more rich than we are. And we don't have these measures because you're fighting for sovereignty, you're protecting the destructive reform of Ziobra. Not because you're arguing about some serious issues, e.g. to compensate farmers either for their own concept of climate policy or for their own concept of the Union budget. In fact, you would be willing to agree not to have any influence from the Union, provided that the Union would not be interested in the property of the judiciary. This is the use of the concept, that is the theft of the concept of sovereignty to a purely private, selfish policy, which of course has negative consequences also for the Polish taxpayer and Polish entrepreneurs. And then there's the international context. I watch public television from time to time. There is a kind of joy over the fact that large European countries have not stood up to the task. Yes, the Germans haven't stood up to the task. But a good policy is to predict the future. Do you think that failing to set a good example of developed democracy and the protection of human rights in Poland, one can effectively oppose Putin's autocraticism in the long run? It's clear. If we carry this baggage, if we do not set an example of a highly developed constitutional democracy, we will not be a leader, we will not be the leader of Eastern Europe, we will not be a leader for the Romanians and Bulgarians, not just in the eyes of Brussels. It is simply impossible to oppose imperialism and anti-freedom governments without setting an example of respect for freedom and the standard of good democracy. Especially since Poland has this tradition, it does not have to invent this tradition. Our tradition is a democratic tradition. Yeah, it's our tradition. We don't have to make this tradition up. We have the advantage. We have the advantage we have lost as a result of your fierceness and your destruction. We have an advantage we've lost... [[Applause]] ...and we're gonna lose. And don't be happy about Germany's mistakes. Ukrainians do not need Poland breaking the rule of law They need Poland, which gives an example, which is within the Union, which is anchored in the Union, which gives a model of constitutional democracy. The Zlatski will tell you this, and it will be harsh words, the same as it is today speaking to the Germans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u46	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Breiza.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! That's it. That's it. That's it. Listening to the debate and hearing the voices of some senators who contest the value of European law, which put their thesis on the alleged primacy of national law over European law, I would just like to remind you that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, together with Mr Frank Emmert, spoke on this issue in his scientific work. I'm talking about a textbook for European law, and I was studying it in college. In this textbook, the Prime Minister outlined the hierarchy of standards in European law. This hierarchy is that the treaties, universal legal principles, regulations, decisions, directives are beyond fundamental rights and fundamental constitutional principles and other constitutional rights, of course national laws. A passage in the textbook of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, which speaks about preliminary questions, is also very important. Namely, if in a single case According to the textbook by Mr Emmert and Mr Morawiecki The standard of national law is in conflict with the standard of Community law, and the competent national court may conclude, as part of the inspection presented, that national law cannot be applied. So that I would like to appeal to PiS politicians to listen to this, read into what Mr Mateusz Morawiecki presented on European law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u48	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm listening to this debate that's been going on since 10 a.m., and I have to say that there are a lot of arguments here on one side or on the other... One can say, as in this joke, that everyone in this discussion is right, in their own way. What do I mean? Well, High Izbo, on the one hand, the present government speaks about sovereignty, about the fact that this is the basis that it is not possible to interfere illegally, outside the treaty and require from Poland something that Poland has not committed itself to. This is the narrative we hear in the internal market, the narrative: we won't even give up the button, we'll be sovereign, we're strong, we're tight and we're ready. But actions within the European Union as if contradict this attitude, for a very simple reason: I will remind you that none other than Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in July 2020 agreed to the principle of money for the rule of law at the European Council meeting. Few of this, he came to the country and explained that he had agreed that it was very good at all and that, of course, it does not concern the rule of law issues, it is possibly about corruption issues when spending EU funds, but it is actually very good and we have a great success, because we have negotiated the biggest money in history. Moreover, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki accepted Ursula von der Leyen's argument and some of the representatives of the European institutions who suggested: if you have doubts as to whether the mechanism of money for the rule of law is compatible with the Treaties, then make a request to the Court, the Court will rule on this matter. So what did the Polish government do? He did. So what did the Court do? He adopted a decision unfavourable to the Polish government, not looking beyond the treatyality of this decision. Of course, in political discussions, one can use arguments among experts of international law, discuss where the policy ends, where the law begins, whether the law is really sovereign to politics, but the facts are as they are, and must be reconciled with them. And to tell you more, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, criticizing Prime Minister Morawiecki, was 200% Right, he was 200% on logic. the fact that if you want to pursue the policy you want to pursue, the agreement to this connection, the mechanism of money for the rule of law, was a mistake. And here, no matter what the Minister, the Attorney General, thinks of you, it is difficult to deny the logic of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. Now about this sovereignty. We are against the federalisation of the European Union. Well, the KPO mechanism itself was essentially the effect of the European Union's hamiltonism. Let me remind you that Hamilton in the 18th century ...Well, there was an opportunity in the United States to communityise the debts of individual states and impose common taxes. It was a fundamental step towards creating a federation, which is the United States. That's what I call it. Hamilton effect, no longer in discussion. And now the adoption of this mechanism, because KPO is in fact the consent to the communion of debts and the consent to impose European taxes on the Member States and on the public in the Member States, is a step towards federalisation. But the official declarations are: well, we don't want to go to federalization, we absolutely don't agree to that. Moreover, I am already a man in years and I remember perfectly the discussion on the occasion of the Treaty of Lisbon. Do you remember the famous slogan which my name-name Jan Maria is only that it is Jan Maria Władysław, and I am Jan Maria Dominik; I am talking about Jan Maria Władysław Rokita from Cracow, said: Nice or death. Well, there was a password in Polish politics. Later it turned out that, however, there was agreement to the Treaty of Lisbon. Moreover, it was a milestone in increasing the unity of the European Union. Then there was a translation that we negotiated a mechanism with Joanina, which gives us some way to block decisions that we can't agree to. Moreover, no one knows exactly how this mechanism is supposed to work in practice, but it was used for propaganda purposes. We now hear in the European Union the position of Mrs Ursuli von der Leyen, who says that there is a need to move away from unanimity in the European Council on certain matters. So we see that here consistently... In whether it is the right direction or not, I do not get into this statement, but show the inconsistencies of the present authorities of the Republic. From the point of view of sovereignty as understood by the public as the government camp understands it, it is absolutely crucial. Because if we move away from the principle of unanimity in those matters in which it is applicable, and instead there will be a qualified majority or any other, weighted or otherwise constructed, then from this point of view we will have such a situation that... From the point of view of sovereignty it will be a weakening of the position of Poland or a strengthening? Of course it's a weakness. But I don't hear any political ideas, any discussions, any coalitions, any European politics. Moreover, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki agreed in December 2020 to increase the climate targets to 55%. You will remember those billboards that said that 60% of energy costs were the result of European Union policy. These billboards were after Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to the 55% and anyone who knows anything about this issue knows very well that in a situation where it is like this and not another model of Polish energy, it will mean an increase in the cost of electricity production. It's obvious. So we see another inconsistency. But for internal use, we use arguments: we don't give up the button, we're sovereign. Therefore, I assume that such a policy unfortunately does not mean anything good for Poland, since we say that we will not give up the button, and then sooner or later we agree to a solution, and this is even worse than what we could get if we were an active party to various negotiations, coalitions built within the framework of European solutions. And this is the moment we're at right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u50	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I was not going to take the floor, but when I hear this discussion in which people sitting on the right side, including doctors, say that we do not really need this money for KPO, I want to say that in Poland many roads, hospitals have been built, many public utility facilities have been built from this money from the Union, even bike paths are financed by the European Union. The Cape of Hope, which I have led for many years, is built from European funds. Without money, without this support from the European Union, which is a great good thing for every member state, regardless of whether decisions are to be taken unanimously or... This is not the time and place to discuss this issue. At the moment we are talking about the Polish government, taking into account all aspects... And these aspects are the following: the rule of law in our country, you can say, disappeared, there is no three divisions of power, there is no such Disciplinary Chamber as it should be, there are not the requirements of the European Union to receive money. And I want to say one thing: I've already experienced this situation once on a micro scale. Well, in 2007, the bailiff entered the hospital account I was running and took all the money to zero. I then made a terrible fight and called me a friend of Zbigniew Relig's sacred memory on the rug to the Ministry. ♪ Flying like a lion ♪ And I was supposed to be his successor with the transplant company, so we were really friends. And he yelled, "Why didn't you tell me?" I'll give you the money. I say, "Give it, for I will not pour your words into your children's IVs." And that, Minister, is exactly the same thing. Say that to Prime Minister Morawiecki. Such, tasty, tasty statements fall, and people in Poland need this money from KPO, they need it here and now, precisely for the purposes which are included in the KPO. I'm not gonna say it again because that's what we've been talking about today. We don't need a story, and here's one in the speech race. It doesn't show much, and money is needed. We need the live cash we're getting. The scandal is undoubtedly that the crowds of sick people are waiting for this money. It's not true that everything's okay in health care. It's hopeless. Health care really is dying. The death due to lack of money, due to poor infrastructure and above all because of the lack of medical staff. That's what we need resources for. If you have money, you build prosperity. Therefore, it is simply impossible to listen to these speeches that it is already arranged that it will be approved in a moment. That money's gone. Well, it's on a macro scale literally the same thing that I survived. You can't save a child's life if you don't pour an IV with a cure. You can't build a bridge if you don't get the money from the Union. That's what I say, for example. So I really appeal to you, if you can do anything at all, because you said that you could not do anything to restore this rule of law in Poland, so that the money would flow to Poland. It's not a simple matter, it's just that the reason that this rule of law doesn't exist... If the fact is that these are mainly electoral reasons, because one needs such or tasty coalition, then this is an additional scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u52	Thank you very much. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. The second performance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, of course 5 minutes is always worse than the early 10s, because you just have to refer to the words of those who appeared before us. Unfortunately, it does, because it rained here... Well, I don't know, maybe they weren't lies, but cases of far-reaching passing with the truth. The first issue is the destruction of the Polish constitution, supposedly carried out by the PiS government. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing like this is happening, these are some ideas. But there's also an opposing argument. After all, it is the Constitutional Tribunal, the Constitutional Tribunal, which fights like a lion, among others. with some European institutions, about our sovereignty. He fights in the sense that he claims that our constitution is an overriding law. Once again: Polish law and European law are pervading, and something must be at the summit. At the top is our legal act, our constitution. Then there are EU regulations or international treaties. That's the hierarchy. sources of law, written, by the way, in this constitution. And that's what the Constitutional Court is fighting for. Well, how else can you call this a situation like not fighting for the constitution to be preserved? Because it has in it, in one of its articles, a clear statement: the constitution is the supreme law, the highest law. That was the first point. Attention two. One of the speakers said that we didn't complain to the PiS that we won the election. Well, unfortunately, it's the other way around. It's just that you, at least some of you, haven't come to terms with the outcome of democratic elections, both of them. The effect is that you run the street and abroad, and sometimes both these instruments at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, even on this speaker, there was a sentence that I specifically noted: if this government were a civilized government... That's the phrase that went. What does that mean? That means there's no democratic legitimacy. It's the opposite. One of the previous speakers said that, perhaps not even realizing it. It is the subconscious that throws out phrases such as those that are supposed to dissuade the democratic legitimacy of the Government of Law and Justice or the United Right. Well, you can't do that. Either you're telling the truth or you're not. And I'm just going to mention the truth, the criterion of truth. Well, sometimes she's debatable... It may not be debatable, but the best criterion for truth is the future. If you talk about future and uncertain events, and after a while, it's time that you do it, then it's clear who's right. Ladies and gentlemen, please remember what you said before and what it's like right now. Has the policy towards immigrants, which was, well, preferred, mainly imposed by Germany, proved to be true? Speaking of which, we were also accused here as if we were pro-Russian. It was not us who coined the concept of Eurasia from Portugal to Vladivostok and we did not implement it. It is another country that wants to lead the European Union by force that has implemented it. Right now it's falling apart because the other side of this deal, I'd call it, she couldn't take it mentally and invaded Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not expect much from the European Union. I want the European Commission to treat us as other countries, from an economic point of view, do not participate in the project to starve Poland. I want the European Parliament to give us life in quotes. Because we don't want the deviants that this Parliament supports. Polish society is just different. And I don't want the TSUE to try us again. In quotes, of course. Enslave. We were under a communist shoe. Sorry about that comparison. And I remember those times of lack of sovereignty. We deserve at least a moment of breath and sovereignty. Understand us, those who are trying to take this away from us. And the last sentence is for the Minister, and not with grudges, on the contrary. Minister, I keep my fingers crossed, but I would ask you to take one point into account. We think that all EU institutions operate legally, on the basis of law, do not exceed their competences. [[Timer signal]] Unfortunately, it's getting worse. I would ask you to remember that there is a policy of facts made. We should be prepared for this, know when to run the facts that have been done, and get off the path of the law, because you can't at the same time with the help of the law to talk or discuss with the argument of force. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u54	Thank you. And Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u55	Thank you. Two sentences. One: there is no real conclusion from false premises. The Constitutional Tribunal elected against the principles of the Polish Constitution cannot deliver judgments in accordance with the Polish Constitution. [[Applause]] And the second sentence: The European Union is not a treasury, it is the treasury of our citizens' rights: freedom, to others... [[Applause]] ...to diversity, to freedom of speech. Let us respect two principles: our constitution and ours in accordance with the Constitution of the Treaties adopted. That's all. That's all. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u56	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Marcin Horała, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So far, I have rarely had the pleasure to appear before the Senate, and I expected that in the item "Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the possibility of mobilising funds for the Republic of Poland from the Instrument for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Immunity" we would generally talk about the possibility of mobilising funds from this instrument, while ninety percent of the discussions concerned other matters, but while respecting the senators, I would like to refer to all or at least some of the issues raised. I must admit, I was also surprised by a certain tone of this discussion, very emotional. You were outraged when one of the senators rightly accused you of exaltation, but the exaltation was hardly said, the most severe accusations, insinuations, etc. were here. Of course... as the Americans say, don't come with a knife to the shooting. However, I will try not to adapt to this shooting and speak at least a tone lower. But the tone down is going to be three tons higher than what was in my original speech. I'll address the senators one at a time. Senator Klich used the formulation of the biggest financial scandal in terms of delay or prolonged negotiations on the KPO that this is the biggest financial scandal. First of all, Poland has lost nothing in this alleged scandal, which is also wider in a moment, so there is no loss, but the senator must admit that the loss by Poland under the rule of the Platform circa about PLN 260 billion from the state budget, largely stolen by the VAT mafia. And it wasn't money that someone in Poland didn't give for this or any other reason. No. It was the money which was in the Polish budget, which was paid to criminals as a result of gross violations of Polish law and gross negligence of various bodies appointed to uphold the law. This is the biggest financial scandal. With the conclusion that someone should be in jail for this, I definitely agree. Unfortunately, for the time being, there is no qualified majority in the Polish Sejm to renegotiate a ready-to-be application, among others. Mr. Donald Tusk before the State Court, but I hope this moment will come. [[Applause]] Saying that this KPO situation is 100% the fault of the Polish government... This is obviously not true. The Polish government from KPO, to which there were no allegations from the Commission in substance, was ready a year ago. It was the European Commission that decided to use the funds of the KPO as a political lever, a political pressure on a completely different matter, on judicial reform. She felt that, since, in accordance with the procedures that are in the Union, there is a point to the treaty that speaks about the rule of law infringement procedure... It's just that at some point, you have to vote. it is unanimous, apart from, of course, the Member State in question, and the Commission knows very well that this majority is not there. So if it's not the left, it's the right one, if it's not the stick, it's the stick. She decided to take advantage of these important matters for Poles, which I will also talk about in a little bit more, in order to put pressure on an independent state on a completely different matter, going beyond her competences, which I will also talk about in a moment. So, enjoying the fact that we've been able to communicate, enjoying the fact that this epic seems to have ended... Well, if we're gonna say whose side is the blame for the fact that it's been going on for so long, of course it's on the Union's side. And, as the senator said, this could have been completed quickly, simply immediately eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber and follow the European Commission's instructions. Yeah, you can. On this basis, the Ukraine mentioned here can end the war very quickly. It can simply surrender, agree to all the demands of the other party and there will be an end. If I ever... I don't know if any of you were running a company or involved in some business venture. [[Yes.]] [[Yes.]] Because how did you negotiate? agreements like this, which is how you had a dispute with the other side... State e.g. You say, "Okay, I'll sell you this property for a million dollars." And the other side says no, for 500 grand. And the state immediately ended the dispute, just admitting: good, for 500 grand, okay. Well, hello. I guess these projects didn't end in much success. There's no reason... It was said that Belgium, the Frenchman, the Dutchman was to benefit from more judicial protection than the Pole. Of course, yes. And the Pole has the right to judge him, for example. a politically impartial judge who doesn't go to street political demonstrations to be judged by a judge who doesn't commit crimes or acts that are not consistent with judge ethics, so that a judge who doesn't allow him... There was already the name of the named judge who oversees a trial in which a man was put in socks, and his assets worth half a million were bid for $30,000. This is what a Pole has the right to do, just as they have the right: Belgium, Frenchman and Dutchman. But I will tell you more, it is also the Polish elector who has the same right as the German, Dutch and French voters that if he chooses his authorities, this authority has the right to rule in the country and has the right to make decisions. Because it is not the law of this authority, it is the law of the Pole who elected it in democratic elections. Senator Gawłowski said that there were several times here. That there were charges against the Senate that delayed the procession for two weeks, and now it took a year. We're just talking about something else here. You are aware that these two weeks you have delayed the decision to ratify your own resources, your own resources. It's different than KPO, it's just a different question. I don't understand why you're mixing one with the other, but, as I say, KPO should be adopted faster. In an ideal world, but we do not live in an ideal world, the Commission would have approved it long ago, because it had already approved it, and it would have already been implemented. Well, obviously, we're not living in the perfect world. [[The Italians are alive. The Spaniards, too.]] Come on. There were polemics or questions about the content of the KPO. Well, again, that's not the topic of today's discussion at all. But this content is generally known to you, the Polish KPO is accepted and publicly available. As regards this adjustment, which will result from the negotiation process with the Commission, I would like to remind you that this order is not shared, as is the case with cohesion policy, but this is the Commission's order. So now it's a simple procedure. The so-called one. The CID, the Country Implementation Decision, must be adopted by the College, by the College of Commissioners, then goes to the Council of the European Union and, when adopted, will be transferred to Poland. Then we, as the Ministry, because we coordinate this, pass it on to the government and the government makes corrections in the Polish KPO, which will be in line with these findings. She'll be publicly available. I was talking about this procedure, and you're still saying it's not there because you can't see it. Well, then you call on the Commission, the College of Commissioners and the Council of the European Union to adopt it as soon as possible. Then we will be able to implement this in Poland as soon as possible and it will be publicly available. Come on. Senator Gawłowski was concerned about environmental expenses. The requirement for KPO is 37%, our KPO has been 42.7% for a year now. And that doesn't change. The Commission had no comments on this either. It was just accepted. As an argument, the senator also recalled data on trust in the Polish government that it was only 30%. Well, I wasn't in a position to quickly verify that data. I don't know if they're real, but looking for them, I accidentally found information about the trust in the Civic Platform government in 2015. Well, it was 27%. In the opinion of Senator Gawłowski, confidence in the current government... Well, I wouldn't argue with that trust data at this point. There's been a complaint about the KPO Monitoring Committee that the government decides everything here, and it used to be balanced. I kindly inform you that the government has half the seats in the Committee monitoring KPO and the other half have NGOs and local governments. That's how he controls everything. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera has talked a lot about health care here. From such general statements... Well, maybe just a few words about what the facts are. The KPO will support 330 hospitals, within the overall pool, plus 280, from the oncology pool, etc. The fact that POZ is not included here is because POZ is included in cohesion policy and hospitals in KPO. That's the kind of division we've made. Well, for example. 10,000 medical students will be supported, i.e. 10,000 places in medical school will be co-financed with KPO, etc., etc. In total, it will be allocated from KPO 4.5 billion to health protection. EUR 4.5 billion. [[They're just not here.]] But... [[But they will be.]] But... If someone... [[Yeah, they're gonna...]] [[They will, don't be afraid.]] Talking in general about how bad it is today in health care and how little money it is, especially in health care under the rule of law and justice, this is a very brave thesis in the mouth of the representatives of the formation who ended the government, having in the budget of the NFZ 67 billion PLN, while currently there are 117 billion, or 75% More. Well, if you're in health care right now, That's the word for it. Because of the lack of money, I think she was a dead man in your reign and lay 2 meters underground. Mr... Excuse me, Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski here too... Well, it's already been a very high level of rhetoric, and I'm certainly not gonna get to that level of rhetoric. The Oscars have already been handed out this year, but next year there's a chance... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, can you get the Minister's attention that he's not a senator reviewer? It's supposed to refer to the ones that are left here...]] [[Voice from the room: It works both ways, Senator.]] [[Perhaps in the Seym.]] [[It works both ways...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u58	Good. Senator, I'm asking you to start with yourself because you're constantly interfering with senators, ministers, interrupting, arguing from the courtroom. Give an example, and then show your cards to the ministers. I believe that, after this avalanche of extremely biased, emotional statements, the Minister has the right to speak as appropriate. No limits of good taste have ever crossed here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, it has often been said that we will not make it, because 70% must be, as some have said, contracted, others that settled, by the end of this year. What has to happen to make this 70% ? Well, this is where the European Commission has to do its work, i.e. has to re-scind all the formal procedures I mentioned earlier, the rules, the clearance, the documents, etc. The completion of this procedure on the Commission's side will guarantee us that 70% We already have the funds from the KPO. If the Commission finishes this by the end of the year and it has to... If it can only fit in the dates it needs to fit in, that's how it's gonna be, so that's 70%. It'll be guaranteed by now. There was a more general statement about Poles' dream of entering the Union. Anyway, it was a thread that's been coming here many times. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it was a Polish dream. Membership in the European Union, as we believe, is beneficial for Poland. What's more, and it's amazing that the state, as if it were creating itself on such very Europeans, is actually showing some horrible complexes. You are mentally concerned in the 1990s when this poor, stolen Poland had to simply get into this Union at all costs. And what they're telling us, it's just good, and let's just do it. No! It's us... [[Do you live in Poland or outside Poland?]] [[Don't bother.]] We are the first-class Europeans in Europe who have the same rights as the French, Germany. And the Polish state has the same right as France, Germany... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...as many European countries as possible. We have the right to an opinion. We have the right to our own interests and to strive hard for them. Membership in the European Union is not that I quote You don't have to agree these 3 points, you just have to make them happen. Every other European country uses EU institutions, uses the EU arena to play hard for its interests. And as long as this government that governs Poland, so will Poland. We will not be passive contractors of these interests. [[Applause]] And this is a modern and realistic approach to what the European Union is. And this is a policy without complexes. And here I would like to assure you: such an approach, that these 3 points that they have given us do not need to be agreed, but need to be realized, no matter where these 3 points come from outside Poland, Brussels, Moscow, Berlin, Washington, from anywhere... That's not gonna happen. It will not be so that Roma locuta, causa finita, someone told us to, we carry out. Poland has its interests. Of course, we are realistic, of course we are aware of the power arrangement, so sometimes you have to agree, sometimes you have to negotiate, sometimes you have to take a step back to go two steps back... i.e. to go three steps forward, but just to do what we're told outside Poland, we won't. [[And there won't be any money either.]] [[But punishments are paid every month.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainians give their lives. Well, I assure you, the Ukrainians... One might ask them once after the war whether they gave their lives for the Court of Justice of the European Union to set up an internal organisation of justice for them, or whether they would rather pay for Ukraine to be an independent, sovereign state which decides itself, chooses its own alliances and organises its own affairs in its own country. That's what the Ukrainians are really fighting for. Just what we want for Poland. Mr. Senator Borowski... You mentioned the Commission President, Mrs von der Leyen, saying that Poland must prove that the requirements for milestones are being met before the funds are paid. Yes, we have discovered here the general principle of spending all European resources, that there are certain rules that the programmes are on a certain basis, so some expenditure has to be paid, certain actions have to be carried out, and when they are carried out and settled, the European Union pays the funds. This is how European funds have always worked. There's never been one. so that when the perspective begins, the country gets, say, 700 billion wire transfers into the account and does whatever it wants with them. It has always been so that... there are just certain rules for spending these funds and they have to be fulfilled. So there's nothing sensational or new here. These are obvious things. Miss... [[But you don't meet those milestones.]] 15 is already fulfilled, the others are advanced... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Kochan, I've actually already answered, because you've been repeating the thesis that you've already had. Well, you're also throwing out these slogans: the destruction of human rights, the trampled civil rights. What civil rights? What human rights are now being destroyed and trampled in Poland? What? [[Freedom of speech, for example.]] Freedom of speech. Excellent example. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The hey that's pouring out of your...]] A vulgar hooligan... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The vulgar hooligan, who publicly reproaches state officials, jerks them over uniforms, not only that he is not punished for his actions, yet in this court, which is supposedly such a PiS-owski, gets 20 thousand compensations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is an example of this lack of freedom in Poland. Then you said that 500+, as some say, is now worth 320... [[Yeah, because there's inflation.]] Well, you could say that. If I had, for example. I now said that 500+ is worth 20 zł, then you could say, well, some say it's worth 20 zł. However, I remember how some people said that there is no 500+ and there will be no 500+ introduction in Poland that will cause the collapse of our budget, will cause the second Greece. And it seems they were representatives of your formation. So if you're concerned about things... Well, I wouldn't care about 500+ 'cause if you had something to say about it, 500+ would be worth 0 zł. Because he wouldn't be in Poland. [[You have bad information.]] Have we ever paid for gas? Well, I guess a lot of us have been paying for gas. I understand that Russia's energy policy and its supporting energy policy are also the responsibility of the Government of Law and Justice? The fact that Germany has been pursuing a policy that favours Russia for years and has moved it to the EU level is that they are destroying coal energy, that they have even tried to destroy nuclear energy and have only been placed on a renewable energy source, which is obviously unstable, so something has to be supported... With what? Nord Stream gas. It was the essence of Energiewende. Such a policy was imposed on the whole of the European Union in this direction. And she's in bankruptcy right now. Russia has been using this for months, reducing gas supply, causing gas storage in the European Union to be emptied. Now he also cuts Poland off from gas so that its prices are as high as possible. And you're accusing the Polish government of doing everything they can to get out of this blackmail? As Germany became increasingly dependent on gas from Russia year to year, so Poland became more independent of gas from year to year. And although we are a state of the former communist block, which still 30 years ago had energy 100%. dependent on Russia, we are now in a better position towards Russian gas blackmail than many Western countries, with Germany at the head. Senator Czerwiński rightly noted the hierarchy sources of law in Poland It is defined by the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution is the highest source of law in Poland, ratified international agreements have lower status But this, I would say, is worse for some judgments of the Court of Justice, because it rules in the powers which the European Treaties, the ratified international agreements, have not granted it. They just didn't admit it, he doesn't have the authority. In turn, the Treaty on European Union itself, art. I'll even quote it here. It says: "In accordance with the principle of granting, the Union shall act only within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the Member States in the Treaties. Any competence not conferred on the Union in the Treaties shall lie with the Member States. And somebody show me in the Treaty on European Union or in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union the right of cognition of the Court of Justice of the European Union with regard to the organisation of the internal justice system. There's no law! So, as long as the ratified international agreement is a source of universal law in Poland, but of a rank lower than the Polish Constitution, some decision of an authority issued outside its sphere of competence and outside its cognition is not a source of law in Poland, because there is no legitimacy in the laws that apply in Poland. In this case, the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Of course, this attempt to push the European institution in competence has been known for a long time. She's trying to expand it, expand it, expand it as much as she can. Thus, the case-law of constitutional tribunals of the Union as a whole clearly going in the opposite direction. Therefore, even the ruling of something that should be your supreme authority, the Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe, which ruled that states are lords of the Treaties, and also ruled that no EU institution there is no competence other than that which has been granted in the Treaties very clearly and explicitly. And he cannot interpret himself from the general clauses of additional powers. I do not mention that the rule of law in Poland is not violated, so not only do they not have the right to judge it, but they are also materially wrong, as I am about to say, referring to the words of another senator. There was a second speech by Senator Klich earlier, who said: more Union, citizens of the Union want more Union in some areas. And you can say, yes, we also want more EU in some areas, e.g. energy solidarity. We consider it a scandal that Germany, running a gas deal with Russia, has just encouraged Putin to be aggressive and conducive to his energy policy, absolutely ignoring the interests of other EU countries, trampling on the principle of EU solidarity. But here again: that is what it is about being a sovereign state, that is what it is about being a full member of the Union, that we have the right to have an opinion, to say in which areas for the Union to work together, we think it is a good idea in which areas we would like to give part of our competences to the Union, and this is always our decision And automatism is this, well... In the animal farm of Orwell, there's this figure of Boxer's horse. He always had one prescription for everything: more work is needed. Similarly, some of the European elites have a prescription for everything: more integration, more Union is needed. Well, it's already led to brexitu, so I hope there's going to be a turn off from this road, because we're... And here we are moving on to Senator Kaminski's statement that our vision of Europe is different. Yes, our vision of the European Union is different, it is a vision of a Union that is faithful to the European Treaties, which respects the rule of law, that is, the competences enshrined in the Treaties for the European institutions, which respects the sovereignty of the states, and also the Christian cultural heritage of Europe. Unfortunately, at present, the EU institutions often try to break these rights, which is why there is a dispute. But in this dispute, we really are on the side of the roots of the European Union, what it was and what it was supposed to be when it was founded. Mr. Senator Klich I'm just going to go back a little bit, and he said that this integration train is moving forward, and we need to get on it, because it's gonna go away. Well, it's actually dialectical materialism, it's a Marxist vision of history as some inevitable progress... [[Applause]] ...which always goes in the right direction and only needs to be caught up, you always have to go forward, because if you stay behind, it will be bad. No, realism in the assessment of the situation, as well as how history has been going on in recent years, shows that different institutions, different actions in history They also sometimes identify blind alleys, from which they must then be withdrawn. So it's not worth getting on every train that goes blindly without asking where it's going. Senator Kaminski was talking about Putin's allies. Did Mr. Salvini build Nord Stream II and addicted his country to Russian gas? Did Mrs. Le Pen sell the Russian arms components against the embargo? Today, the Ukrainians shot down a Russian drone produced in 2022, in February, a drone that has electronic French components in it. They showed it today at a press conference. So, of course, we disagree with these politicians, Mrs Le Pen, with Mr Salvini, we disagree with their views on Putin and Russia, we have no problem telling you that they are wrong. But not only with opinions, but also with actions, with tough politics, implemented by Prime Minister Merkel, your formations did not agree, Donald Tusk in his speech said that this policy was a blessing for Europe. We are seeing the effects of this blessing in Ukraine. Mr. Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, Mr. Senator... This is the moment because he said that here it is not a problem whether the Union has the right to assess whether it does not have this right. And here I respect the senator, who, as a law professor, sort of went aside and didn't attack directly, didn't mention the problem that he doesn't have, that he clearly exceeds his powers, and it's obvious that here, I don't know if education or old views have interrupted a little bit to break so clearly. But the problem is that the Constitution is being violated in Poland, for example. The Minister of Justice and the Attorney General is in one person, which is not in any civilized state. Well, you don't have to be a professor of legal sciences, you don't even have to be a master's degree, you just have to be a careful student, so that, in the textbook, you can read that the prosecutor's office under executive authority, which is part of the executive authority, is Okay, here's the The European Public Prosecutor's Office's classic model in many European countries, in one construction or another, or the Public Prosecutor-General appoints a minister or appoints a government, in any case the Public Prosecutor's Office is subordinate. But let us leave the European countries. The senator was a minister in the government, where the Minister of Justice was also a prosecutor general, and it was a dead man. Professor Lech Kaczyński, and then Senator Ujazdowski had no problem with it, for he spoke very well about the actions of the then Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. But now, in another choir, you have to sing differently. But there are other issues, such as the choice of the National Court of Justice. You keep saying that it violates the constitution that the KRS is being chosen by the Sejm... [[Fortunately...]] ...and Art. Article 187 (1) (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv)) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv))) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) Thus, a law rooted in a direct referral from the Constitution is supposed to break the constitution. We're almost there. Senator Chybicka said a lot of roads were built, hospitals. A lot of things have been built, it's a great good thing. The only question is: will we be more effective, or will we get even more of this money at the end of the day and on better terms, if we say yes, we will come to negotiations and say that the Union is a great good, we must accept without discussion everything you are telling us and now let us negotiate? Like I say, when you buy something, you sell it, you negotiate it... That's not how you negotiate, that's not how you negotiate in business, that's not how you negotiate in international relations. You have to have your own interests, you have to be able to pursue them. You can't just go upstairs... But how do you even imagine that? Do you think that European elites, including individual countries, e.g. France, Germany, etc., are these our benefactors? They don't have any business in this, they just out of this pure kindness... [[Voice from the room: I didn't say anything like that.]] ...they want to help us, and they want our good, and we just, I don't know, we want something else here, instead of it, we want to get the good out of it. Oh, no, they all have their own interests. The fact that Poland has joined the Union, it is not a charitable, altruistic activity by the Union, it is access to markets, it is the possibility of placing companies using cheap, unskilled labour, poorly paid, it is a few million young educated Poles who have gone to those countries and are building their prosperity, and they are working for those pensions, not ours. Poland also incurs huge costs related to membership in the Union. Balance, we believe, is beneficial to us, but these costs also need to be seen, they need to be communicated to European partners and they need to be said all the time that we want to do so, we want to do so, it is our business, that we do not agree to do so, and that you are great good and what you are telling us we will do, there is nothing to agree on. It's just that everything has to be settled. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, which, as I say, did not concern information on the possibility of mobilising funds, but it was you who proposed such a tone of discussion and such content, I will say one more thing. In this dispute, which has been fought, and which seems to have already ended, concerning the issue of the organisation of justice and the suspension of funds from KPO, on the side of Poland, on the side of the Polish government was 100% Moral reason and 100% Legally, there was no right of force. Poland is a smaller country, it is even poorer, it is still very crucial here, because we have already overtaken 2 countries so-called. the old EU in terms of GDP and we are rapidly approaching the next one. So, of course, this money is beneficial to us, but of course, as in every human enterprise, especially in politics, not at all costs and not under all conditions. That's what we have to turn around in. Sometimes you have to be a lion, sometimes you have to be a fox, sometimes you have to, like I said, take a step back to take two steps forward. Therefore, there is no difference in whether or not we need these measures. We need them, but, as I say, not at all costs. There is no discrepancy in the fact that we say that we are defenders of Polish sovereignty, and in the Union we get along. Because yes, we are defenders of Polish sovereignty, as you can see, also before a part of Polish politicians, but of course, we conduct a responsible policy, understanding the arrangement of international forces, understanding the geopolitical situation, and sometimes with various bad solutions choosing the smallest evil for Poland, and sometimes with different good solutions, it is the greatest good. But there's never a perfect situation. That is why we have been able to negotiate a compromise on the KPO, which preserves our fundamental interests. I am convinced that the European Union will also work on its side with these formalities and that these funds will go to Poland. And as Poland is now one of the leaders of economic growth in the European Union, just as Poland now has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union, as in Poland over the past 6 years the income available per capita has increased by almost half and as we have chased away 2 countries of the old Union, as well as, among others. Thanks to this programme, this trend will continue and soon it will be the European countries that will negotiate with us. We'll just be rich enough to be a net payer, and then our negotiating position will be much stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u60	Thank you, Minister... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...for providing information. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] No, Mr. Senator, there's no... [[But my name was mentioned.]] No, no, no. Mr. Senator... [[What do you mean, no?]] [[The name was mentioned!]] [[My name was...]] I'm sorry. Can I, as the speaker of the meeting, calmly explain why I do not think so? May I? Are you in session? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 'Cause I'm about to announce a recess by tomorrow... [[Voice from the room: There you go.]] ...and you'll be waiting here. [[Don't yell at us.]] [[Don't yell at us.]] No, because you guys scream all the time. [[Voice from the room: Protest Marshal....]] I see there's a complete mix-up of roles in the Senate. You, Senator Lover, constantly interferes with the speeches of the Senators of Law and Justice, presumptuous, sighing, outrageous, criticizing. All the time. All the time. Oh, you, Mr. Senator Borowski... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...you're a marshal... [[Mr. Marshal, I don't sigh, sigh, and stop.]] You don't. But I want to read you how it is in the script. [[Please.]] Would the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Marcin Horała, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? So it's hard for him not to mention your name, since he was commenting on the senators' speeches in the discussion. If you are now in ad vocem mode or correction will carry out further polemics, well, it will actually, in my opinion, be contrary to the rules. The rules of procedure are so designed that at first the minister comes out, he has a free speech. Then there are senators' questions. Then there's the discussion. And he concludes and closes this discussion. [[Yeah, but... okay, but...]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Correction, Mr. Marshal, corrigendum...]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting... [[The corrigendum concerns misunderstood speech.]] ...was exhausted. [[I'm sorry, but this...]] We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform the senators that the statements made... [[We'll be at the convention meeting talking about it.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jerzy Wczyła, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, On 6 May 2022 a contract was signed for the third, last stage of the construction of the channel by measuring, i.e. a waterway, which is to connect the sea port in Elbląg with the Baltic Sea. The investment is planned to be completed on 30 April 2023 and from that date the port of Elbląg should be available for vessels with a immersion of up to 4.5 m and a length of up to 100 m or a set of barges up to 180 m, i.e. ships with a capacity of up to 5 000 t. Unfortunately, although almost PLN 2 billion will be spent on the investment, no ship of the specified parameters will enter the port of Elbląg. There will only be ships which, without a channel, enter the port, i.e. with a draught of up to 2 m and a load capacity of up to 1 000 t, i.e. five times smaller than those for which the channel is built. Why would that happen? Because on April 30, next year, the government will complete the investment, but that does not mean that it will finish it. Because in the avalanche of enthusiastic information about how this port in Elbląg will develop, the fact that this channel was decided to end in bushes, 3 km from the port is hidden. Only after the disclosure of these facts by me and after my acute interventions in 2019 it was decided to extend the watercourse by 2 km, but it still ends 1 km in front of the docks. Besides, ships for which a channel is built will not turn back in the harbor, because for this we need a larger turntable, which the government does not want to build for some incomprehensible reason either. The value of the tasks which the government does not want to perform is PLN 30 the costs of the entire investment. High Senate, this is probably the only case in the world where the government has assumed that it will realize 97% from the very beginning. investment, knowing that without the missing 3% the investment will be useless. You might as well build highways without reunions and be surprised that no one uses them. This is contrary not only to common sense, but also to the law, because if someone has decided to build a channel that does not end in any port, it is detrimental to the public interest and according to the article. 231 of the Penal Code should be brought to justice. There is a penalty for imprisonment up to the age of three. So the question is: Why would the government do that? Well, the government has come up with the idea that these last tasks are to be carried out by the local government. Except he didn't agree with any government. He started an investment for PLN 2 billion without determining who and for what money to finish it. And for Elbląg, that 70 million zlotys is not about 3%, but 100%. the investment funds that this city has. Elbląg would have to close all the investments and renovations in the city to complete this government task. I warned about this scenario already in 2017, when we adopted a law on the construction of a channel in which I found such a gateway, a bat on Elbląg. There is a suspicion that the government is waiting for Elbląg to say: we cannot afford to add to the government investment, and then he will say: we can take over the Elbląg port. And of course, that's when the money will be found. Is that what this is about? I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. First of all, why did the government decide to build a channel that doesn't lead to the quay of any port, which means it won't be possible to use it in transport? Secondly, the government claims that the investment is to be completed by the Elbląg local government. But that's a decision you have to make before you start the investment. Therefore, please inform whether, and if so, when and under what conditions, Elbląg was proposed to participate in this investment. I'm asking you to show me the documents on this case. Thirdly, has Elbląg agreed to complete the investment at its own expense? I'm gonna need your papers, too. Fourth, if Elbląg didn't agree, who's gonna finish it? Are we threatening to complete the investment, but it will be unfinished and therefore useless from a transport point of view? Fifthly, if the government had transferred the port to the State, would the state budget have added the missing money and completed the investment? Minister, the channel by measure has economic justification and is needed. Several hundred ships currently unloaded in Gdansk every year can go to Elbląg, also for the benefit of the port in Gdansk, which is aimed at handling larger units. Very quickly unloading in Elbląg can reach 1 million tons per year. [[Timer signal]] One more minute, please. Very quickly unloading in Elbląg can reach 1 million tons per year. For this to happen, all you have to do is extend the 5 m deep watercourse by 1 km and build a 160 m diameter turntable. I appeal to the Minister to extend this investment to these two tasks. Only then will it begin to benefit Elbląg, the region, as well as maritime ports and inland transport. Otherwise, it will be a monument to thoughtless waste of money. Of course, I am aware that the city of Elbląg is facing a difficult decision whether to add PLN 70 million to finish what the government has dug up or lose the port. It is unacceptable, Minister, to use blackmail like this so that this government's flagship investment must be completed by the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u62	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'm gonna start with two ministers, and if I make it, I'm gonna go back to three. I get a lot of requests I have to respond to. At first, I will address the Minister for Climate Affairs. Climate change is the cause of many diseases, including mental changes and new allergies. Dr. hab. Maciej Kupczyk talked about it at the national meeting of allergologists. As a result of climate change, new insects were created, called clerks. Their sting causes anaphylactic shock. They look... They're a little bit like little flies. Ambrosia pollen is a pollen that can give you a very heavy allergy. Climate change leads to changes in flora and fauna. This was repeatedly discussed at the meetings of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. In fact, the whole world is talking about how bad climate change affects human health. We will discuss this at an away meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on Health and the Parliamentary Group on Children. We're gonna talk about this for the kids. This will be the subject: the health of the child and climate change. It's about how these changes affect this health. I would like to ask the Minister to answer in writing what has been done so far about measures affecting health improvement. According to scientists at various medical reunions, nothing has been done. Everything is moving in a very bad direction. What was done to make man safer and climate change not progress? The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. This is a statement on screening for... I'll say for Ukrainian children, but I think it's really... Maybe three million isn't because some Ukrainians drove through Poland and maybe went somewhere else... I'm from Wroclaw. Every third Wrocławian is currently Ukrainian, a refugee or already working there. Why do I call for screening? My question to the Minister is... There is a timetable, as medical services are supposed to deal with both children and adults. They are treated as Poles, but they cannot be treated like Poles. Why? Maybe I'll talk about the kids because I'm a pediatrician. Children are not vaccinated, and even if they are, they are in a very small percentage. It's within 60%. in a good place. It was worse in other places. The vaccination calendar is not like the Polish vaccination calendar. Diseases have arisen. I've got these signals from my pediatricians' colleagues. Which we no longer dream about in Poland, such as scabies or lice. Maybe they're not diseases, they're parasites. There are external and internal parasites. It's a shame to talk about it here. There are pathogens we've already forgotten. On 5 June in President Sutryk's office, with his participation, but not medically, the paediatric clinic managers will accept healthy Ukrainian children for screening. We'll see how many of these kids need care. I know from people who are going to do this, that children who are already going to hospitals, to the clinic of endocrinology, nephrology or oncology, these are children who are very badly neglected and requiring medical procedures. Without such screening, children and adults go between... these children go to kindergarten, schools, and, to be brief, they infect other children. Has the Ministry taken any steps to carry out such screening? This research will be absolutely charitable, but I think it's on such a scale. The refugees who have come to Poland are 3 million - this is a task for the government. I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much, the third will never make it...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u64	Thank you, Senator. Now Senator Bladder will make his statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Przemysław Czarnek. Dear Minister, in connection with the adoption of a new law on the education system and some other laws, in which, among others, more educators, psychologists, speech counselors and other specialists have been guaranteed, and I would like to draw attention to the risks that may arise from the implementation of these provisions in relation to grants for highly functioning children with autism. Autism is not a disease, but a disorder that is characterized by, in large simplification, a different way of thinking. The autistic person acts and reacts differently because he focuses on objects, processes and mechanisms instead of people and relationships with them. Autism manifests differently in each person. Some people in the spectrum of autism present mental disability, and the other is within or above the intellectual standard. Such people are often said to be highly functional. The proposed changes, which assume a reduction in grants for high-function children, are a very bad idea. This idea is argued by the fact that children who do not present an intellectual burden do not need so much support. In fact, it's quite the opposite. For each person in the spectrum of autism, the most important thing is the sense of security. They are almost always traumatized, whose life is a constant struggle for survival in a world that is difficult for them to receive. Young people and high-function children are people who are well aware that they are different from their peers. This in turn leads to anxiety, depression and other mental disorders. Especially difficult is the period of puberty of such a child. Even if a high-function person with autism does not need so much speech therapy or rehabilitation, he needs great support from a psychologist, social skills development and emotional support. It is not that high-function children have fewer needs. It's quite the opposite. They simply need other activities that will allow them to function well in society in the future. And that's what society cares about. Let's fight for these kids and don't leave them alone just because they're not screaming on the street. Let us not take away from them the activities that help them to travel from frustration to relationship. Let's give them a chance to live a good life. I kindly ask the Minister to take an interest in this important matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u66	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I got an answer today from the Ministry of Health on a case I made public last November, which is about the electronic pregnancy register. The government isn't pulling out of this crazy idea. I would like to make a statement to the Prime Minister on this matter and express my deep regret that the government is still working on a regulation introducing electronic women's earrings, monitoring pregnancy. Nothing has happened in recent years to justify it. There were no signals from the medical community, doctors' associations, civil society associations, industry associations, anything else that would lead to pregnancy being introduced into the SIM. This is crazy. There's no reason to create an electronic pregnancy registry. There was only one thing that happened. There was a judgment, the so-called judgment. Court of Justice, so-called Judgment. There have been cases of interest in law enforcement, prosecutions, gathering medical information about women, verifying how miscarriage or abortion occurred. And many people have pointed out in recent months that this register is supposed to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to verify, chase women, check whether miscarriage occurred naturally, or if something else happened. And so we have the most sadistic abortion law in Europe... one of the most modeled by the ruling team in some African countries, in the Middle East, in Latin America. And I would like to raise one more thing: 6 000 citizens and citizens have made their protests in consultation with this crazy regulation. The negative position was expressed by the Panoptykon Foundation, stating that the extension of data on pregnancy would significantly facilitate the obtaining of data by the prosecutor's office, which could apply to the Ministry of Health or the E-Health Centre for the sharing of data concerning all women, as to whether they are pregnant within a certain period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this has happened, except in this sadiurok, which would prompt the introduction of this monitoring in terms of pregnancy. Therefore, I would like to appeal from this place to Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to start monitoring and recording other phenomena in Poland, e.g. increasing inflation, increasing loan instalments, increasing cases in courts, increasing queues to specialist doctors or increasing costs. This really requires the activity and interest of the state. And I would like to appeal from this place to the prime ministers to give up this crazy Orwell idea and, as soon as possible, this regulation, which is now in the RCL, to throw it in the trash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u68	Thank you. Please make a statement from Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sending my first statement to the Minister of Infrastructure. Even at a time when the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation was in operation, the government announced the implementation of the Microretence and Retention Programme. Another voivodship, this time in Zachodniopomorskie, concerns the problem of drought. But, aside from the declaration, I don't hear about any projects that involve retention. Last known to me are programs concerning mountain retention and lowland retention, implemented by the Platform government together with the State Forests. Then nothing happened. Therefore, I would like to know what investments related to this area have been made and are implemented in Poland, with particular emphasis on investments carried out in Western Pomerania. This is a statement I make on my behalf and Senator Lover. Also in such a composition, i.e. me and Senator Kochan, we would like to ask about the implementation of projects related to the reconstruction of the water road, the water track in the area of the port of Szczecin. Because EU money has been secured by the Platform government to deepen the approach track to the port of Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m. This investment has basically already ended, but the ships will still not come in, because we need to rebuild the entire port and rebuild the port quays. I want to know when this trial starts. This is, especially in the watercourse section, a task on the part of the government administration, because maritime safety is the responsibility of the maritime administration. And will the ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście implement this to some extent? I ask because it is a company of the Treasury. I'd also like to know, I'd like to get that kind of information from the Minister. And the third case of current events, Mr. Marshal. This is my statement addressed to Marshal Grodzki. It asked him to interpret the rules of procedure. If the senator's name is mentioned and that name is associated with a statement that did not fall, e.g. From my lips, because I didn't say anything about polls and support, or there's no response, and you're the marshal in charge, in this case Mr. Marshal Pęk, making it impossible to correct that statement, that violates the Senate rules. Mr. Marshal is the first of the equals, and he's only tasked with conducting the deliberations, and he can't violate the rules of procedure. In my opinion, he was breaking the rules and I expect a proper interpretation to be made in this case, so that there will be no such divisions in the future. And as for the way you speak about Senator Lover, I'll tell you, culture gets out of the house, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u70	Good. Two words of comment. As for my statement to Senator Kochan, she was too emotional, and I want to apologize to you from here. This may also be the result of emotions caused by the subject of the meeting, which was quite difficult. As for the question of interpretation, perhaps it would be good to consult with the Marshal of Grodzki and the bureau of interpretation. I am entitled to interpret the Rules of Procedure, if I am in session, and I believe that the agenda is designed so that, after the discussion, the Minister has the right to refer to the statements of all the senators who spoke in the debate... Well, I think that's just so that the minister has the last word, because if, after the Minister's statement, everyone were to refer to ad vocem and straighten out these statements, then another discussion would take place, and I would have to give the floor again to the Minister, who would have said that his statements had been misinterpreted, and that would have been endless. That's why I thought... [[Voice from the room: Not endlessly.]] But for a very, very long time, I think it would be so... [[Voice from the hall: If, Mr. Marshal, the minister is practicing demagogy here...]] But that's your opinion, he didn't think so. [[Voice from the room:... Know...]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I do not need to be right about this, but that is what I have expressed in my deliberations. I believe that a binding interpretation can be made. Thank you. Mr. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski In remote mode. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, concerns the fate of the oncology hospital's investments in Wrocław. I would like to remind you that at the 16th Senate meeting on 14 October 2020, I made a statement on the health care condition, indicating a number of elements that should cause concern. At that time, I received from the Minister a relatively satisfactory response and an announcement of continuous monitoring and attention to this issue. It was similar at one of the Senate meetings when I received confirmation that the Ministry was monitoring the problem and that it declared specific support. Unfortunately, during that time it became more bad than good. The investment, in general, has not started, the tendering procedures do not produce a result, and my predictions in that statement have been confirmed by the facts. Therefore, today, on the one hand, I ask the Minister to supervise, for some kind of control, to monitor the problem and, on the other hand, to confirm a specific declaration of financial support for this investment in connection with a dramatic change in the cost estimate. I would like to add from myself that, while observing the development of this investment, I am amazed that it is already growing irrationally in terms of size, it is also growing irrationally in terms of costs, and the duration of this investment is prolonged even though the investment has not yet started, but I also see the problems of the project itself being signalled to my office, with issues which are announced by various people and institutions, logistical problems related to e.g. with internal communication, the possibility to distribute specific services, the scale of many, many elements of this project. I therefore call on the Minister, because of his financial participation in this project, to be more interested in the fate of this facility, this investment, as well as to confirm his acceptance of certain solutions which are currently preferred by the Marshal's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-19-senat-42-2.u72	Thank you very much. That was the last statement. I'm asking the senator to make any announcement. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 16]]
