ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Karolina Pavliczak, Magdalena Łośko, Aleksandra Szczudło and Filip Kaczyński. The first part of the session will be Mr Karolina Pavliczak and Mr Magdalena Łośko. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Karolina Pavliczak and Aleksandra Szcudło. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Foreign Affairs - hour 9.10. - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11.30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 15. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the question that Mr Mariusz Trepek from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will ask. This is a question about the editing of the programmeMy electricity, addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer these questions. I wasn't wrong once. It's a good day, it's a good day. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the moment, the national environmental fund has announced the fourth call for the programme My electricity. This programme has a very high public interest. This programme reduces emissions and pollution of the environment. As a resident of one of the small towns, I see how many of these installations arrive on individual rooftops. Their amount increases, you can say, from month to month. In my town, if you look at this, every other roof already has such a photovoltaic system. Now, here's the real question. As regards the three previous editions, the funds allocated to these editions amounted to PLN 1800 million. Four hundred and four hundred and forty-four thousand. conclusions. The current fourth edition will be extended edition. Minister, I would like to ask you: How long will the prosumers have to submit their applications? Where can I apply for funding? How much can the amount of funding be maxed out? What are the most important conditions that need to be met in order to receive funding? Who and for what can receive funding? And for additional information I would ask: What is the new net billing system to which new consumers or prosumers will join? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u5	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for this question, all the more important because the programme My current is very popular and the prosumer movement in Poland is developing. I would like to begin by answering this important question, to inform the High House that according to the Polish Society for Transmission and Distribution of Electricity at the end of March this year. 1006775 micro-installations with a total power of more than 7.3 GW were connected to the electricity grid. In a word, we have achieved not so long ago unimaginable progress in this area - we have exceeded the level of 1 million prosumers in Poland. In comparison, it has to be said that in December 2015 it was around 4 000. Prosumers. The conscious, deliberate policy of the Government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is aimed at the intensive development of renewable energy sources, the change of the Polish energy mix towards a more sustainable mix, in which there are stable sources, allowing for the supply of the national system of final customers, especially industry, individual consumers, but also institutions, in electricity, but also in which the share of renewable energy sources which allows the greater competitiveness of the Polish economy, especially entrepreneurs, in the export of goods, which can be legitimised in their passports of products with a greater share of green, clean energy. According to the Energy Market Agency at the end of February, the installed capacity of renewable energy sources was more than 18.1 GW and still in December 2015 it was 7 GW, the largest of which are photovoltaic sources - 8.7 GW, and in these photovoltaics as much as 75% , ladies and gentlemen, these are prosumer micro-installations, so-called. Civil energy. In addition, it is worth informing the High House that in 2020 Poland achieved the RES target set by the European Commission. Let me remind you, it was a 15% target. And we've reached 16.1%. So we've even crossed that line. To answer the Member's question, first of all, I would like to say that my electricity programme 4.0 , the new edition, is aimed at prosumers who settle on the basis of a new billing model, so-called. net billing. This is the principle of selling surplus energy, actually values, not the amount of electricity accounted for in zlotys, not in kilowato-hours. The primary objective is to reduce electricity bills among prosumers and produce energy in micro-installations for your own use, i.e. to increase self-consumption, to produce this energy for your household. How do I apply for aid from my electricity 4.0? Through the application generator on the website of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This is a request generated through the platform: Generator of applications for funding, address: https://gwd.nfosigw.gov.pl, i.e. bookmarks on the website of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In total, the maximum amount of aid from this scheme to the installation may amount to PLN 20 500, including up to PLN 5 000. PLN for photovoltaic installation, 7.5 thousand. PLN for home energy storage, lithium-ion storage - mostly this is the technology, 5 thousand. zł for hot water storage, hot water pump and 3 000. PLN for home energy management system. I would particularly like to draw the attention of the High House to this latter element. The home energy management system is an electronic system that allows us to optimize production, but also consumption, energy management in our household, allowing us to program, optimize, increase energy efficiency of our household. In addition to the Clean Air programme, we have been financing the thermomodernisation of single-family buildings for many years, the exchange of heating sources, and the possibility of installing photovoltaic panels. These elements that we offer in today's programme My current 4.0 they make our homes smarter, they will be more energy efficient, they will be more energy-efficient, and above all, they drive prosumers to a new way of acting, namely, as I said earlier, to increase self-consumption, to store energy, to change energy consumption in time when energy is cheaper in these tariffs. You can also choose the right tariff from the energy supplier (the Bell) to make the best use of these technical solutions and reduce the electricity bills that we pay each month by using this energy for our household.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u7	Thank you very much. The Minister will still have time for the second round, so you'll tell me everything as you see fit. Please, Mr Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u8	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this information, I think it will reach the wider public. Thank you for this information, because we already know that funding can be received in the total amount of up to 20,000, some of which can be obtained for individual actions, i.e. 5,000. Photovoltaics, 7.5 thousands. for energy storage and 5,000. for a heat warehouse - I noticed it well. But, Minister, there's one more problem with the current prosumers who have photovoltaics. And I think the Minister knows that, too. The point is that our power lines have too much voltage and sometimes prosumers have such a problem that their installation (The Bell) does not charge this power to the network. So that I would very much ask you to step up, I don't know, activities among power plants to correct and repair it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In the years 2016-2020, total investment and renovation expenditures in the framework of energy transmission and distribution in Poland, i.e. by operators, were allocated at the level of nearly PLN 37 billion. According to the development plan approved by the President of the Regulatory and Energy Office, up to PLN 52 billion is planned for this purpose by 2025. I would like to assure you that investment in networks is an absolute priority. If we do not build an appropriate energy transmission and distribution system, the economy will not be able to function. That's what I call it. The blood flow of the economy. Transmission, distribution of energy is the basis for thinking about an efficient, dynamic, modern economy. On the other hand, the problem that you are asking about is that we have more and more installations, micro-installations in the electricity system, more and more prosumers. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we exceeded 1 million prosumers. On the one hand, This is a great success. I would like to congratulate all prosumers for their efforts, because this is an investment often paid out of household money. This surcharge from the programmeMy electricity is definitely a minority contribution to the whole task. On the other hand, if there are a lot of these installations locally in a given locality, the so-called phenomenon arises during sunny days. energy peaks produced at the peak of this energy production. And even if we built a power system prepared for this maximum value of energy transmission, it would be very expensive, irrational. Therefore, in the programme my electricity 4.0 , but also in the new clearing system so-called. net-billing, which results from the Market Directive and the RED II Directive, which is de facto the implementation of European legislation into national order, we aim to help prosumers increase self-consumption, i.e. to transfer as little as possible of this energy produced in photovoltaic installations in our home to low voltage networks and to consume as much as possible on site. But sometimes we can't use it at a certain time because we're at work, at school, away from home. That is why we want to support the development of energy storage, both electricity storage and heat storage, so that we can store this energy until we get home when we can use it. However, according to the new billing model (the bell) we have 12 months, because we have an individual prosumer account, which we can settle within 12 months. At the end of the last sentence, Mr. Marshal, it is worth to say that the prosumer does not have to make sales transactions. He will not be obliged to conduct business. He will not pay personal income tax in this respect and the energy produced by the prosumer is not subject to excise duty. Therefore, the government will continue to support the development of the Prosumer movement. In the new law, which entered into force on 1 April this year, we also introduced the concepts of collective prosumer and virtual prosumer. We're opening up the prosumer market to actually dozens of millions of households. And there is the prospect of a dynamic development of this sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u11	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. Let's move on to the next question. Members Waldemar Andzel and Jarosław Gonciusz of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the embargo on Russian energy resources. This question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. Mr Piotr Dziadzio will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland gives Europe a hard course of moving away from Russian energy raw materials. I would like to ask you to present a detailed embargo on the Russian raw materials that Poland will introduce. In what directions will diversification of access to these raw materials be based? What are the government's plans for the use of Polish energy resources, including coal from Polish mines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u13	You're welcome, Minister. [[I would like to complete this question here.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u14	I would also like to ask how and whether the war in Ukraine has changed the adopted policy on energy sovereignty and whether it is planned in the context of renewable energy sources at the expense of traditional and prevailing energy fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u15	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! I would like to answer these questions, because Poland is probably the only country in the European Union that is so well prepared today to depart from imports of energy raw materials from the eastern direction of the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen! I will divide my speech into three areas. The first area will be natural gas, the second area will be oil, and the third area will be coal. And I will show you all the steps that have been taken or which will be taken in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as natural gas is concerned, Poland today thanks to our consistent actions is fully secured in this situation when it comes to the supply of natural gas, and is able to immediately cut itself off from imports of gas from Russia. We have taken action, we have undertaken very important investments in this area, for example, even investments that we have been talking about many times in this public debate for several days. It is even about the LNG terminal, even the construction of Baltic Pipe, which connects us to the Norwegian natural gas supply system. All these actions that have been taken are now in a position to... We also have connections between countries - interconnectors. All these actions lead to the fact that today we are able to import about 21 billion m Ladies and gentlemen! A very important area is that we also have the necessary gas reserves and already mentioned sources of supply that protect our security. They have been prepared and built for many years. I must also mention here even more about gas warehouses, which are currently filled with 76%. As far as warehouses that are currently in the rest of the European Union are concerned, they are filled at, say, 30-31%. So we are a leader in energy security, raw material security for natural gas. Ladies and gentlemen! I just mentioned the LNG terminal. I would like to say to you that today we are ready to accept as many as 50 ships and to unload these ships, to register this amount of liquefied gas delivered and distribute it in our gas system. To remind you that in 2015 we had one such delivery, we started it, and in 2018 there were 23 deliveries, so gradually increasing reception possibilities as well as regasification. This is the result of the expansion of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście. I also mentioned other directions. It is important that we tell ourselves that we have a connection with Lithuania, we have a connection that we will make - the end of the implementation - with Slovakia, with the Czech Republic. These are the most important investments that are made. We have our own extraction at 4 billion meters. As far as oil is concerned, as I said, we are prepared for a lack of supply of Russian oil when it comes to our refineries. Today we have an expanded, literally, oil terminal in Gdansk - Naftoport. It is able to take 36 million tons of oil per year, which is absolutely sufficient for our operations and for security in terms of the supply of this raw material, oil, from other directions. And here I'm pointing out these other directions, because that's the question. These other directions are Saudi Arabia, Norway or the United States. We have adapted, we have tested refineries for different types of oil, and we are therefore ready to walk away from this fuel, this raw material, from day to day. As far as coal is concerned, just like you. I mentioned, as of today, we are cut off from this raw material by the Russian Federation. This raw material was decreasing in previous years from year to year. In 2021, it was noted that 8 million t of this raw material was imported generally from the East, from the Russian Federation. Today we are already completely cut off from this direction and here we are also pointing to other directions of supply (the bell) of this raw material. These directions are the USA, Colombia or Australia and South Africa. I'm just gonna talk a little bit more about what's going on. On March 29th, the Council of Ministers adopted assumptions for policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u17	Minister, why don't you tell it in the second part, okay? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Okay, well, here you go. Because we need to take care of time. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Good. Mr Andzel will ask the question and you will have the right to answer it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for your comprehensive response. As you can see, the list of unnecessary, according to the total opposition, investments are constantly increasing - Baltic Pipe, the excavation of the Vistula mine, gasport, Central Communication Port, Jizera, etc. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] In this regard, I would like to ask you to indicate the technical possibilities of gas transport in Świnoujście in the area of gas reception and to refer to the question of filling Polish gas warehouses. How large are these stocks and is there a need to use them? What is our situation compared to other countries? And even if the topic of coal could be further developed, because in this respect there are also problems with supplies from abroad, at least as regards the availability of this coal for the CHP plant. Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u19	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u20	Thank you so much for that question. I will add further to the exhaustion of the previous subject in the field of action. Thus, on 29 March, the Council of Ministers adopted assumptions for updating the raw material policy, the State's energy policy by 2040. This policy has been complemented by the so-called. the pillar of energy sovereignty, a particular element of which is to ensure the rapid independence of our economy from imports of raw materials from the Russian Federation, including mainly coal. On 13 April, the Sejm adopted a law on special measures to combat the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to protect national security, where imports of Russian and Eastern coal were explicitly prohibited. In addition, I will mention that the Russian coal embargo was also introduced at European Union level in the fifth sanction package. Now I'm answering additional questions. As far as the regasification capacity of our LNG terminal in Świnoujście is concerned, the expansion is systematic. As of today, we are able to accept, reclassify and distribute about 7.5 billion m. I'll mention the gas warehouses that are already filled with almost 80%. This is actually a European phenomenon, because European gas warehouses are filled at 30%. They are not filled, the filling level remains practically the same as before winter. We are the ones doing the extra work today to maximize the filling of these warehouses. At the moment, they're still full. We're trying to fill them up to 90 percent, almost 100%. To make sure they're ready before the winter season. As far as coal is concerned - because there is also a question in this regard - as I said, in the energy policy of the State (The Bell) we have shown that we will also use this raw material from our native areas, i.e. from our mines. In this respect, action is already under way to show how much of this coal we are able to extract in addition to secure the demand for this raw material on the domestic market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u21	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Maria Małgorzata Janyska and Krystyna Sibińska from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the risk of local investment due to a drastic increase in costs, the lack of possibility to value contracts, the value of funding and the adjustment of the funding criteria to the real situation in the Strategic Investment Programme. This question will be asked to the President of the Council of Ministers and, under his authority, will be answered by the Undersecretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister by Minister Izabela Antos. I ask Maria Margaret Janyska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The congress in local investment and the spectrum of bankruptcy of construction companies, especially road companies, is the state we are dealing with today. Since last year, and this year with a very high intensity, the Prime Minister has been alerted to this, but also to us, members of local government, construction companies, their industry organisations, business organisations. This is because we have been dealing with galloping inflation, a galloping increase in costs since last year. Therefore, investments that are already carried out under contracts that cannot be valued are at risk, but also within the framework of the so-called strategic investment fund promoted in Poland. It's a polish deal. The Civic Coalition Club organised a debate with the players I mentioned on 12 April. They were very detailed about these problems and alarmed about a very bad situation. In order to save local investment, as well as road companies, the following actions are needed: on 20 April, as a club, we applied to the Prime Minister: the benefit of subsidies from already operating targeted grant funds, the possibility of changing the scope of investments after the award of the promenade, the extension of promenades and the duration of implementation - because tenders are increasingly ineffective or companies are leaving, losing weight - changing the rules and increasing the frequency of payments. The executives are not from lending the state budget, they have no credit capability to a large extent or set aside capital. We also called for the introduction into the Public Procurement Law of a special mention about the valorization of contracts for the duration of the crisis situation, stopping the limitation of the local income base - and such will be the effects of another law, a new tax system, better than the best Polish Government - as well as increasing the participation of local governments in state taxes. This is also what local governments, the Polish City Union and the Polish Metropolitan Union are bringing in. The lack of these activities threatens to completely collapse (the bell) in local investment. In fact, the role of local authorities will be reduced to the role of administrative offices only in the central distribution of resources, and family, small and medium-sized construction companies, especially road construction companies, will be eliminated from the market and competitiveness will be reduced, which in turn will lead to higher offer prices and a dictation of several strong monopolies of contractors.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u23	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u24	Good morning. Dear Marshal, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present to you information and explanations on the question addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the threat of local investment co-financed by the Polish Government Fund Loads: Strategic Investment Programme due to the question, as put out in the question and as you have put it, the drastic increase in costs, the lack of possibility to value contracts and the value of contracts, the lack of the possibility to adapt the funding criteria to the real situation. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Polish Government Fund: The Strategic Investment Programme was introduced in July 2021 by a resolution of the Council of Ministers. The aim of the programme is primarily to stimulate investment activity of local government units. The programme is implemented by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego investment promesy, thanks to which it is possible to obtain by local authorities or their associations non-refundable investments which are important from the point of view of local communities. The programme shall be financed by the COVID counter-fund. This programme is of great interest to local governments, which confirms that the decision of the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to create it was appropriate. In this context, it is worth noting that in the first edition of the Government Fund of Poland Loads: the Strategic Investment Program of local governments has contributed almost 8 thousand. applications for funding for a total amount of over PLN 93 billion. The first edition of the programme covered 4040 applications for a total amount of almost PLN 24 billion. According to data collected by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from applicants, in the first edition of the programme, local authorities have already signed 1016 investment contracts, which is 25% provision of preliminary promenades, for a total amount of PLN 4.7 billion, which in turn represents 20% the budget of the first edition of the programme. Tender procedures are settled on an average of 74% the value of the investments indicated in the application for funding. Seeing the great interest of local governments in the first edition of the programme, and also taking into account the positive impact of the programme on the development of local communities, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, following the resolutions of the Council of Ministers, decided to launch the next three editions of this programme, which were addressed to local governments. In this respect, I kindly inform you that the second edition, like the first one, is open and covers all local government units and their associations, the third edition is addressed to municipalities, powiats and their associations, in areas in which national agricultural enterprises operated, the fourth edition is addressed to spa communities and have the status of a spa protection area. At this point it is also worth noting that the plan of the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund for the implementation of the four previous editions of the programme secures funds at the level of PLN 47 billion. By presenting this information, I kindly inform you that the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers, as well as Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego constantly monitor the implementation of the programme. Any questions raised in this regard and any proposals for change, including from ladies and gentlemen of Members, shall be carefully examined and the programme shall be adapted to the changing circumstances which make it difficult for local governments to implement the investment. In this respect, we see, first and foremost, delays in the settlement of subsequent tender procedures or other difficulties in obtaining contractors by local authorities. In view of these circumstances, on 26 April this year. The Council of Ministers adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the establishment of the Polish Government Fund: Strategic Investment Programme. I would therefore like to inform you that the changes made meet the expectations and demands made by the local authorities, as well as those raised by the Member in her speech. In this respect, I would like to point out that, thanks to the amendment of the resolution of the Council of Ministers, it will be possible: to extend the deadline for the announcement of the purchase procedure from 6 to 9 months after the opening promesa by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego; to introduce the possibility of re-announcing the purchase procedure or part thereof within 9 months of the opening promesa - such an action should be carried out in compliance with public procurement rules; to extend the deadline for applicants to submit a statement to the investment promesa to 30 working days - so far it was 14 days; to make a statement to the investment promesa by those units of the local government whose promesa expired due to the incorrect submission of this statement. Other postulates also come to us, among others. o: introducing the possibility of automatic increase in the value of the promesa due to inflation and increase in investment costs; changing the rules for the payment of the co-financing from the programme; introducing the possibility of changing the scope of the investment task; allowing the possibility of concluding contracts with the contractors of part of the investment without waiting to settle the remaining parts of the tender. However, given the nature of the programme, in particular its competitive nature and the need to ensure equal treatment of all local authorities applying for support under the programme, and given the scale of the programme and the measures secured for this purpose, it was not possible to introduce all the proposed changes at this stage. I would also like to point out that if any more detailed questions arise, we are, of course, in contact with local authorities - both BGK and KPRM - and at your disposal, so we will also answer any specific questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Sibińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I feel like the government doesn't know what's going on in the construction market, in the investment market. Yesterday, for example, at a session of the city council in Gorzów Wielkopolski, the president of the city announced that he was missing 100 million to carry out the already started investments. This is the tenth budget of the city. Why is it missing? It is precisely because the prices of construction materials, the prices of services have jumped so high that it is simply not possible to realize already started investments. Our question was not in this direction so that you could tell us about these programs, because we know them, we know them. You can really talk about other programs, ideas, slides, etc., but that doesn't solve problems for local governments or performers. Yesterday at the European Economic Congress, one of the panels was about threats, both for local governments and for contractors. Don't you know that contractors prefer not to perform contracts and to suffer contractual penalties rather than to execute them in amounts where they cannot be executed? The share of local investment in GDP in 2018 was 2,5%. In 2021 it is 1.8% (Bingle) It's a space drop. So please answer us what kind of solutions you have, both for local governments and for many executive companies, just to prevent it. It's a transition time, it'll probably pass, but they have to live, they have to function, and local governments have to have instruments to carry out contracts. That's what this is all about, not about you telling us what fantastic programs you've prepared. Oh, really, have some mercy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u27	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u28	Thank you very much. I think I have partially answered this question, even to a large extent, because I have pointed out the changes that we have already made on 26 April. Today is April 28th, so probably not all local governments have had a chance to get to know them yet. All information is available on the website of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In addition, I would also like to point out that I have, however, presented that we are monitoring the entire process on an ongoing basis. At present, the level of concluding investment contracts is 25%. the whole program, which, I will remind you, was decided at the end of October last year, so it is 5 months. 25% for a total amount, let me remind you, 4,7 billions. [[It's about realization.]] These contracts are in effect. I will also remind you that as far as the Polish Government Fund is concerned: the Strategic Investment Programme, these are multi-annual tasks, the scope of the work significantly exceeds the 12-month periods. We monitor this on an ongoing basis, we are in constant contact with both BGK and KPRM, local governments and we respond to the requests made, as evidenced by the revised principles set out in the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 26 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u29	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic and Mrs Monika Falej from the parliamentary club Lewis will ask a question about the scale and extent of the assistance of victims of war crimes and the financing of it from the Justice Fund. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice and the answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Romanowski. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedz to ask her first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u30	Dear Minister, This question would not have been asked if the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General would have agreed to answer the repeatedly asked questions about the scale and extent of assistance given to victims of war crimes that came to Poland from Ukraine. It has been more than 2 months of atrocities experienced by civilians, including women and children, since 3 million people who have fled from murder, rape and torture to Poland. War crimes are crimes, the Polish Penal Code leaves no doubt about it. The Regulation of the Minister of Justice governing the actions of the Justice Fund contains no restriction on persons of non-Polish nationality, ergo all victims of war brothels residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland are victims of crime or witnesses of these crimes, i.e. war crimes. In fact, they have the right to legal, psychological, psychotherapeutic, but also material assistance: financing the cost of shelter, food, clothing, cleanliness, special educational needs, and we are talking about at least a million children. They have the right to treat, buy medicines and finance procedures and medical procedures. And that's what the Justice Fund is dedicated to, and hundreds of millions of dollars are on the proverbial table. We know from the media that Polish prosecutors were supposed to interrogate thousands of people. How many Polish prosecutors have awarded victim status or witness status? What kind of help did these people receive? Let me remind you that these are women and children subjected to torture and rape. Olena Kondratiuk, Vice-Marshal of the Ukrainian Parliament, spoke here in the Seym about a 12-year-old child who was pregnant after multiple rapes. Given the reports of women and children victims of sexual violence, has any assistance and support from the Justice Fund been applied specifically to these victims? How many people have been financed by the procedure of terming a child out of war rape and in which Polish hospitals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many people have been financed for medical procedures and procedures as well as abortions, antivirals or other anti-rape measures?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the first days of Russia's armed assault on Ukraine, refugees have received free support from the Justice Fund within a nationwide network of aid to victims of crime. This is primarily legal, psychological and material assistance. There are 305 such facilities in Poland today. In connection with the war activities carried out, about 10,000 have already been involved. refugees who fled Ukraine. The programme to help victims of crime for the period 2022-2025 provides for an amount of PLN 120 million for 2022. This is planned support, which is allocated from the Justice Fund to victims of crime, including victims of armed robbery. As far as the first quarter of this year is concerned, more than 11 thousand have already been granted. hours of legal advice, almost 13,000. hours of psychological advice in the framework of the activities of the Network to assist victims, including those of the Ukrainian citizens mentioned above. A nationwide network is financed by the Fund. He offers all victims of crime, including victims of war crimes, immediate assistance. In order to facilitate the procedure for those who use Ukrainian language, the aid application has been prepared in Ukrainian, it is available and each type of support is adapted to the specific needs of the beneficiary. Information on the sites and types of assistance can be found on the Fund's website, also drawn up in Ukrainian. In response to our needs, we organized a training course at the Ministry of Justice, under the resources of the Justice Fund, for those providing support in our networks of victims, but this training was also open to lawyers or civil advisers from the network of free legal assistance, also for court guardians. Of course, the participants of the training have been familiarized with the previous regulations, as well as the latest in the field of assistance to foreigners, including in particular refugees from Ukraine. Assistance from the Justice Fund shall also be provided through a hotline. In connection with Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we decided to extend the working time of consultants who speak Ukrainian. Previously, before aggression, this help through the helpline was also provided in Ukrainian, but only on working days and during working hours... The change we have introduced is that in Ukrainian this assistance is provided 7 days a week 24 hours a day. In March, on average, there were about 70 people who used only Ukrainian language per day. As far as support is concerned, this support was also implemented through financial units, local government units. This is about border districts, which already received support from us in the first days of aggression. This is just over PLN 1 million for support, such ad hoc, especially for food, medicines, cleaning products, especially articles for young children. It was very important especially in the first days, weeks of aggression, when these border counties, at the border with Ukraine, were burdened with this assistance. Information material. We have also prepared information materials in Ukrainian and Polish, leaflets informing about free and ad hoc support from the Justice Fund, but also with free legal assistance. We also prepared flyers that informed about the possibility of testifying as a witness in connection with war crimes or genocide or crimes against humanity. These leaflets were distributed, of course, through the Centres of the Justice Fund, but they were also distributed to prosecutors' offices. Much of these leaflets have been distributed through voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u33	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Falej to ask her questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u34	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, It's been over two months since Russia's criminal assault on Ukraine. We are specifically asking and asking for concrete answers to a question concerning citizens and citizens of Ukraine fleeing from the war to Poland, which focuses on the important question whether the Justice Fund, whose responsibility is the Minister of Justice, fulfils its role at such an important moment of trial. That is why we are asking specifically how many people, citizens, Ukrainian citizens have been granted the status of victims of crime and the witness status of the crime, including how many children and how many women there are in this group. For us, it is extremely important to refer within this data to citizens and citizens of Ukraine. Here, above all, given the reports of women, girls, children - victims of sexual violence, I ask whether any assistance and support from the Justice Fund has been applied to these victims. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many people have been financed specifically by the procedure of the term "war rape" and in which hospitals? How many medical procedures and procedures and abortions, antivirals, and other treatments for rape have been financed? We are talking about Ukrainian citizens, not the overall number of leaflets in Ukrainian, because this applies to this particular group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u35	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u36	Thank you very much. According to what I said, there's about 10,000. over 90% are women and children. As regards the nature of this assistance, we do not conduct statistics aimed directly at Ukrainian citizens in conjunction with the nature of the assistance they receive. This is above all legal, psychological and material aid, because for this help these people actually volunteer. The aid is always adapted to the real needs. These actions are comprehensive in nature. As I said, they are implemented both through victim assistance centres, to which already 10 thousand. people, as I said, have found, as well as through the helpline, where information, legal assistance and simple psychological assistance are provided. As far as refugee status is concerned, it is not, of course, the Ministry of Justice or the Justice Fund that confers this status, but the legal authorities. According to the information I have, last week's condition is about 1300 people who have been questioned as witnesses. With regard to aid through public finance units, through powiats, more than PLN 1 million was the amount to be used precisely for ad hoc aid due to real, real problems encountered by local government units from border areas due to a sudden influx. I remind you that at certain moments, in the greatest wave, it was over 100,000. of which 95% They were women and children. This aid was really needed there immediately. And just as aggression began on Thursday 24 February, so already Friday, Saturday and Sunday were those days when we were in contact with all local government units from border areas and we were working on contracts just to give this immediate, real and real support needed. The representatives of these individuals already had this knowledge and certainty that the funds for which they bought food, medicines, cleaning products, especially for children, would be refinanced from 24 February. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as 500,000 are concerned, too. leaflets that have been prepared, containing all this information, are a significant part of them already distributed. I think these are the real needs to which the Justice Fund, but also other institutions, are trying to respond. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u37	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Grzegorz Lorek and Marek Polak. These Members are from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is about increasing resources for the Rail+ programme to PLN 11 billion and qualifying 34 investments for implementation. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and will be answered by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Andrzej Bittel. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to ask the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u38	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, During the period of government of PO-PSL 200 km of railway lines were closed. Many towns have ceased to have a railway connection, many stations have been closed. The Government of the United Rights has increased the resources for the Rail+Programme to PLN 11 billion. Minister! What are the priorities of this programme? What will railway and railway infrastructure in our country look like after the implementation of the programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u39	Please, Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to emphasise and emphasise once again that twice the budget for the implementation of the Rail+ programme is a real opportunity to eliminate the effects of the long-term failures of the PO-PSL governments in the modernisation and extension of railway infrastructure. I would like to ask the Minister when the negative effects of our predecessors' policies will be eliminated with the naked eye throughout our country? Thank you very much. [[Which one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u41	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rail+Programme is of course important, but not the only one. It is worth recalling that we are implementing a national railway programme worth PLN 76 billion. These are investments in railway infrastructure on major transport lines involving European funds and with even greater share of Polish funds. We are carrying out a maintenance program that serves to maintain these railway lines. For the first time in its history after 1990, the Polish state undertook to implement such a programme. We are implementing a station investment programme aimed at modernising stations - over PLN 2 billion. We have a stop program - 1 billion PLN, which aims to modernise stops. We also have an investment programme related to the purchase of rolling stock. As part of all of the government's activities, there is also a Rail &amp; ̄ programme to address the gap between cities over 10,000. residents and voivodship cities and thus prevent the exclusion of communication. It is also addressed to local authorities. Government participation, after this increase, is PLN 11 billion, including 15% Local government own contribution and this represents the entire pool of this programme, i.e. about PLN 13 billion. We want to ensure that travel, daily, ordinary, to work, to school, to doctor, to cultural centres, can also be carried out with the participation of collective transport, and in particular rail transport. That's what this program is for, that's what it's for. Either modernize the existing regional line, so as to increase the parameters and be able to achieve better results in terms of timetable, either restore traffic on a closed line or build new sections of the line, as we discussed. These are very important investments, because if we take seriously the need to increase the number of passengers in trains, in rail transport, the burden of increasing these numbers to the greatest extent rests on regional lines. Therefore, this commitment, which then turned into a programme. The program initially received nearly 100 applications. There were 100 applications, 46 projects were selected under the procedures used in the programme, which were carried out by the procedures. As a final result, we have 34 investment projects, including three documentary projects, 11 billion PLN of government funding and about 1200 km of railway lines, which will undergo either actual modernisation or documentation modernisation. The programme envisages its joint implementation. At the moment, requests will be sent to local authorities to secure funds under the procedure. There will be contracts related to own contribution, and then we will move on to the tendering phase that will serve the implementation of the investment. Extremely good public perception, as far as recent government decisions are concerned, shows that these are extremely important things. The satisfaction of local governments is also a sign of this. Thank you very much to all local authorities from different levels: from the voivodship, district and municipal level, who wanted to engage in the submission of applications and the joint implementation of these projects. I want to thank them because it is indeed a very important matter for us to be able to carry out these projects together. As regards questions concerning specific investments of the voivodship, in Łódź voivodship we will carry out two projects worth PLN 1242 million. It will be the construction of the railway line 131, Chorzew Siemkowice, with the railway line 181, Wieluń, and the modernisation and electrification of the railway line 24 on the section Piotrków Trybunalski - Bełchatów with extension to Bogumilov. It is worth mentioning that the Świętokrzyskie voivodship received a documentary project concerning line 25 on the section Skarżysko Kamienna - Tomaszów Mazowiecki. She also connects with the Łódź voivodship and passes through our favourite village, which is through Końskie, where trains are already in place. This will enable us to improve the operating conditions of this line in a perspective. As far as Silesian Voivodeship is concerned, there were a lot of projects there. At first there were 19 of them. Finally, we have 15 projects included in the basic list, on the ranking list. Seven of them were eligible for funding and eight were included in the reserve list because they were point projects (Bells) which are implemented as long as free resources are available. Since the funds were used earlier, unfortunately the projects are on the reserve list. Let's see how the situation develops. As regards issues related to the Małopolska voivodship, nine projects were initially reported. Four worth 1296 million were eligible for funding. In the Silesian Voivodeship, I did not say about it, it is 1916 million PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u44	Dear Minister, What criteria in terms of recruitment were adopted by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u45	There you go. Just a quick question. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u46	The answer will be short, too. These are economic and demographic criteria. Plus is also a very important element, which is the number of pairs of trains. This criterion resulted in an increased evaluation of the proposal in the score. Raising the assessment of whether an increase in scores also resulted in an increased share of local governments - more than 15% . Local governments had 16-25% participation. Of course, everyone calculates it based on their needs and capabilities. The smaller projects, of course, had greater flexibility in terms of increasing the participation of their own local authorities. If it's bigger, every percentage means a lot of money. Those were the basic criteria. It was still a key element, the most important element - cities must have more than 10,000. The inhabitants and must have a connection with the voivodship city. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u47	Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Krzysztof Gadowski and Wojciech Saługa from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask questions about controversy and social protests accompanying the construction of the Central Communication Port, especially airports and high-speed railways. This question will be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of which the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure will answer Minister Marcin Horała. I ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u48	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In 2017, the Government of Law and Justice announced a very powerful project. It's the Central Communication Port. This project raised many doubts from the beginning and raised many questions. Or the right project? Should it be that wide? Is it worth it? Is this the project that is most important at this point? Are there resources for this? The government did not listen to the sovereign and began to implement. He set up an executive company responsible for the Central Communication Port, launched further positions of presidents, directors. The whole procedure has begun. Since the start of this project, the government has been facing great resistance. He encounters this resistance mainly because he is unable to meet the challenges, answer the questions of local people, answer the questions of local authorities, cannot conduct dialogue with them, does not accept any alternatives to the projects he places on the table. Minister! The proposed routes will lead to the elimination of all the life's achievements of generations of people. In Silesia we have today, Minister, a powerful problem. It is a line 170, a high-speed line on the Katowice route - the state border - Ostrava. 15 local governments, 15 municipalities, 15 local authorities. People go out on the streets, protest, block, collect signatures. Their problems can't be solved at all. They do not receive support. Local government district Mikołowski proposes its course. People sat at the table, made a deal, prepared a concrete proposal, made specific resolutions. They write to the minister (the bell), they ask for help, they ask you to consider this proposal, but there is no minister there, no one accepts these proposals. Minister! I wanted to ask you: Will the comments of the old man and the local governments of the district of Mikołowski be taken into account? Do the residents' comments on the changes to the Real Estate Management Act, which will bring further solutions, not quite good, which will come into force as soon as possible... The point is that they can see the conditions under which they can pursue their claims. There will be expropriations. Today, CPK representatives participating in these meetings cannot answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u49	Thank you very much for that question. Applause, madness in the Seym. Minister, I invite you to respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with the fact that the CPK investment programme raises controversy and raises objections, e.g. In the last two years, 28 articles have been published on Sputnik. The tone is given, the MRI boxes are resonating. We also have a social phenomenon, a phenomenon, I would say, a certain social shock, which results from the fact that more than half of contemporary Poles in their adult lives have not met with such a phenomenon as the construction of a new railway line. During the 1990s we had to deal with the destruction of the Polish railway system, we had to deal with the physical liquidation of thousands of kilometers of railway lines. New railway lines were hardly built. After a great ongoing programme, modernization - already tens of billions, more than 100 billion will be invested in modernization of Polish railways, Mr Bittel spoke about this just now extremely professionally - the CPK program is a program of lifting Poland, the Polish transport system, but also the Polish economy and society to a completely higher level of development, among others. Thanks to the construction nearly 2,000. km of new high-speed rail lines. The investment process is in Poland - because we are part of the European Union - extremely formalized, extremely regulated by law and from this right comes a whole range of consulting obligations on the investor's side. You will not indicate, because there is no such case, a place where an investor in the form of a CPK company would have failed to fulfil any of the consultation obligations. Conversely, the CPK makes a whole range of efforts, initiatives, consultation meetings which are not required by the law, which result from the investor's goodwill, so that the maximum amount of this major investment project can be consulted in order to take into account all kinds of comments and conclusions as far as possible. It is enough to say that we are already after several stages of such consultations, following strategic consultation of the voivodship, after two stages of consultation of the strategic location study, the programme of the new transport system of the country, after a strategic environmental impact assessment. At the same level as SSL - 160 thousand. Notes. This is the largest programme of consultation of infrastructure investments in Poland in general, in the history of Poland. Never has such a large consultation been carried out as those already carried out, which I stress, the law did not require, are something additional, precisely because of the good will of the investor in this direction. Now we are in the case of 10 sections, nearly 1300 km, at the stage of technical and environmental studies. Again, this is not an investor's will, it is the law that is rooted in EU legislation that results from this procedure. In open procedures, in accordance with the Public Procurement Law, the entities that carry out these analyses have been designated. These are technical and environmental studies, i.e. for different variants, many variants, an analysis of technical, economic and environmental aspects within the meaning of both the environment and the social environment. Meetings are held - again beyond what is required, because public participation at this stage is not legally required. There's a whole series of meetings going on, first online meetings, because there was a pandemic, then personal meetings, then live. For the Silesian episode itself, this means at least 25 meetings that have already taken place are planned. Of course, the demands and comments of both residents and local authorities are taken into account and are being considered. Perhaps sometimes the impression that this is not the case may result from the fact that there are proposals which are simply obviously impossible to implement for objective reasons, e.g. a proposal for progress which leads through areas subject to such environmental protection levels that no investment can be made here. After finding such a fact, it makes no sense to further analyze the course carried out, because it is simply by law that this course cannot be conducted. In the case of Silesia we have a number of factors which make this maneuvering area narrow unfortunately. In some places there is a phenomenon, you can say, so-called. narrow throat, that is, different variants, different runs must pass about in a given place and there is no room for manoeuvre for objective reasons. I've already mentioned protected areas. The areas of mining damage and active mining activity also significantly reduce investment opportunities. We're here, on this episode. We are implementing the EU corridor in the TEN-T network, so we cannot go beyond the parameters of this corridor and beyond the range of this corridor. This is a cross-border investment, agreed with the Czech side, so of course we must aim at this point at the border, to which the Czech side will join. This also causes that any possible mileage, variants are out. Finally, each rail - especially in the case of high-speed rail - has to meet certain technical parameters. There can be arches, more narrow, with a turning beam exceeding certain parameters, there can be driveways, exits exceeding certain parameters. This also immediately eliminates a whole range of other ways, perhaps more socially acceptable, because they are technically impossible. This means that the implementation of them would result in the project not meeting the assumed parameters. Finally, the next case may be those routes which significantly increase the length of the railway line, because in general, how to build transport links between cities And the city of B, it must be somewhere in the vicinity of a straight line connecting these points, not to meander or perform double arches or triple lengths. All this causes that some proposed options are quite quickly rejected, after a short analysis, while all of them are analysed. The feeling that they are not being analyzed is, of course, wrong. We are now at the second stage of our work, it is a technical and environmental study. It will end with the choice of an investor option (The Bell) and at least two alternative options to be submitted as part of the application for an environmental decision. The environmental decision procedure is once again expected to involve the public legally, requests are made before an investor independent body, i.e. the regional environmental directorate, and there is still a judicial route, a reference to the environmental decision. All these rules, all these procedures that we apply, make the participation of the public, the participation of local authorities in this investment process multifaceted, multi-level and, where possible, these proposals will be, as far as technology allows, as far as environmental protection allows, so far as economic rationality is concerned, taken into account. In the end, however, we must also tell ourselves that NIMBY syndrome is known worldwide, not in my back yard. We would all like good railroads, connections, roads, factories, jobs, but to keep it located not at my place, just a little further away from the neighbor's. And we need to locate somewhere, so let's also be aware that there will never be any investment that would not be any unhappy person or someone who would not protest against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Wojciech Saluga. You're welcome, sir. A recent birthday boy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister Horala! I don't know if you can hear yourself. You suggested to the residents that this is the Sputnik portal, Vladimir Putin, which is responsible for their concerns, right? How much, Minister, you have to have for these people contempt and disregard to say that. You say beautiful words here, very smooth, but if it's so beautiful, why is it so bad? There were supposed to be talks, consultations, marshals of the voivodship announced a round table, and we have protests, rallies, blocking streets and roundabouts. It was supposed to be a bright future, the development of communities, and we have pain, suffering, uncertainty, crying, gnashing our teeth, destroying our lives, in one word, demolition, displacement and pseudo-demonstration. They suffer, Minister, people and nature. People say there's planning and organizational chaos. People come to these meetings to hear something, to know something. On the other hand, either they do not get (the bell) any answer, or these answers are wrong. There are very important questions about amending the Real Estate Act. You didn't answer anything. Are you planning to amend this bill? People really want to know, because once they get these pseudo-demonies, they want to know on some terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u53	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u54	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As for Sputnik, I would like to say that I did not refer to people, but to opposition politicians, who are also, of course, people, but not to the social side, to the inhabitants. From where the concerns of the inhabitants and why they are understandable, I have just presented them. On the other hand, I have this analysis and, of course, in subsequent stages, because there will be several laws related to the CPK in the Sejm soon, I will present, as some memes, some allegations addressed to the CPK are given in Sputnik's article and later are repeated by other media or by other politicians attacking this strategic investment program for Poland. So, of course, there will still be an opportunity to return to this discussion. You said with such a large disinvolture that there are demolitions, there are expropriations. And that's what the level of the public debate on CPK shows. It so happens that this investment programme is at such an advanced stage that no one, not one person, has been expropriated and not one person has been demolished at this moment. [[Yet.]] So saying that there are demolitions and expropriations is extremely far from the truth. [[140 in the county, in one commune.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The expropriation and compensation procedure for expropriation to public-purpose investments in Poland has been known, applied for years and so far nothing relevant has changed in Poland since 2015. This is exactly the same procedure that has also been used before, and at least the State has not claimed that it is in some particular way cumbersome or unfair. It is in preparation for the Euro 2012 that a number of solutions have been put in place to reduce public participation or to facilitate public investment, but to reduce the powers of the social side. They obviously improved this investment process - it has to be acknowledged - but if the value in itself is to be the maximum power of society in this area, then it was the moment when they were most limited in the name of the efficiency of the investment process. You are signaling the subject of an amendment to the Real Estate Management Act. Yeah, she's available on the RCL pages, she's at an advanced stage in the legislative process, at a government stage. Everyone can read it, there is no need to spread unnecessary fake news or fear, because the content of this project is of course well known. I hope that he will soon be in the session of the Sejm, will be the subject of debate here, can be discussed in detail. I can only point out that, in general, this amendment guarantees that each of the public investment beneficiaries will receive more compensation than the market value of the property from which it is expropriated. Some are slightly larger, depending on the type of property, probably the biggest ones who are expropriated from the residential property, who have to move their place of residence. This is the way it is proposed in this amendment. However, of course there is an elimination of the principle of benefit, i.e. the few pathological cases in which (the bell), as we see in practice, for example expropriations to roads, the estimated operation, the estimated value of the property is e.g. $500,000. PLN and 10 million compensation paid. Such breakthroughs at the expense of all of us, Poles, going into thousands of percent will not be, and thus there will not be those who, just as they are currently injured, have to move out under duress, have to move and for example. they get compensation that doesn't allow them to get a decent place to live in another standard, another place. The system, which is currently, awards owners of large areas of low value land, who were lucky to bet on the good course of infrastructure and once concentrated for pennies of land, which are now expropriated with a breakthrough going to thousands of percent. Those in this solution will lose, and those who live in their homes, in their homes, in their homes, in their businesses, farmers who have machines, in their businesses, in general the whole society will benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko and Mrs Anna Pieczarka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the thirteenth pension and 14th pension granted by the Government of Law and Justice as additional support for pensioners and pensioners. This question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. Mr Stanisław Szwed will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko for the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u56	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! According to GUS data, in 2019 there were more than 9700 thousand in Poland. Seniors. The autumn of life for them should be a period in which they have peace, rest, and it should also be a period of passion, plans that they have not yet been able to achieve, with important social, family or professional roles. In Poland, the structure of families from many generations to one generation has recently changed, which cannot always support seniors, care for them, especially in sickness. The Government of Law and Justice does not leave seniors to themselves. For the past six years, he's proven his actions to the importance of seniors. A consistent policy of the Law and Justice Government in this area is being implemented, which is an expression of gratitude to older generations. It is also an expression of such solidarity between generations. This support is expressed in several areas, it goes in several directions. That's, among other things. the financial support that we are about to ask about here, but it is also important to create conditions to activate seniors so that they can maintain their activity as long as possible. And here, the Ministry of Family is implementing a number of programmes such as Senior+ ¿, 75+¿ Care, Senior Support Corps or drug purchasing support programme. In the programme for 2021-2025 there will be over PLN 0.5 billion for support for seniors. Mr Marshal, I would like to forward the floor to Mrs Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u57	But I think that's as part of the next question, because you just ran out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u58	I have a question about the payment of the 13th pension. How much has been paid so far, for what amounts, and will these 13th pensions (the bell) be raised in the future, or will they be valued? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u59	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Minister Stanisław Swede to answer these questions asked by the Members. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because for the Government of Law and Justice, support and care for seniors, for this group that needs such support, is a priority from the very beginning. Some of the actions she has been talking about, for example, those programmes that concern the activity of older people. This is about the Active+ or Senior+ Programme, but also about 75+Employment. Here, when we answer these questions, we will focus on this material support. One of the most important types of material support is, of course, the annual valorisation of pensions and pensions. In this recent period, whether last year or this year's valorization, we spend much more money on valorisation than a simple conversion. We do not bring to such a situation that we have a multi-gold valorization, because if we introduced it also in previous years, the lowest valorization was 70 PLN. As far as this year's valorization is concerned, it is worth recalling that we have raised the indicator. This valorisation is a matter of inflation and wage growth. It is assumed that the wage growth rate was 20% In 2022, we adopted a wage growth rate of more than 63%, resulting in a 7% valorisation rate. , the highest in recent times, which is also important due to the level of inflation that affects our society. On the issue of the amounts that we spend on the valorisation of pensions, in the period 2021-2022 it was PLN 29 billion, in previous years it was over PLN 46 billion. It's about the amounts of the valorization that we spend on our pensioners and pensioners. That indicator I'm talking about -- 7%. - refers, of course, to those indicators which were adopted last year, because this year's calculation of indicators for valorisation will apply to 2023. With regard to the 13th pension question, we have been providing additional benefits for pensioners and pensioners for 4 years, but also for all those who are entitled to benefits - whether pre-retirement benefits or pensions, agricultural insurance benefits, uniformed services. So all groups that are entitled to any benefit are covered by an additional benefit commonly referred to as the 13th pension. What is important is that valorisation enters the pension system, and the supplementary pension, even though we call it the thirteenth pension, does not enter pension benefits, is additional support for seniors in order to improve their situation. This witnessing is very popular among our seniors. As I said, we have been carrying out an additional benefit in the form of a 13th pension for 4 years now. Here, too, it is important to note that, in the 13th pension, we do not include this benefit in any income that entitles us to other benefits, i.e. an additional arrangement, nor can other claims be deducted from this benefit if necessary. As regards the 13th pension, we spent almost PLN 48 billion in the years 2019-2022 for the 13th pension, and in the last 2 years it was over PLN 25 billion. These funds go to all pensioners because here we applied a mechanism that applies to all eligible, without any income criterion. This is the amount of the lowest pension. This year's lowest pension is PLN 1338,44 gross. Importantly, this year the Minister of Finance decided not to charge tax on the thirteenth pension, which further improved the situation that this net pension is at the level of PLN 1220. The fact that we have made such a decision has made the benefit even higher. Right now we can practically say, because the 13th pension is paid from April 1st, that we end her payment. The 13th pension is paid automatically when benefits are collected, whether in the Social Insurance Institution or in the KRUS, whether in the uniform service or through other benefits. It is paid in total for 9600 thousand. Retirement and pensioners and the amount which, as I said, we have spent in these years is over PLN 25 billion. This year it will be over 13 billion PLN. This is the support that we direct directly to pensioners and pensioners. In addition to valorisation and issues related to the thirteenth pension, we also provide for 14 pensions. She was paid once last year. We have the Prime Minister's declaration that the 14th pension will also be granted this year. At the moment, we are working on solutions if (the bell) is a 14th pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u61	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Anna Pieczarka to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u62	Dear Marshal, Minister! Continuing with your questions, I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude for all the seniors with whom I have been working for years, from the Małopolska area, especially from the Tarnowski, Dąbrowski, Brest, Bocheński districts, for what has so far taken place financially for seniors from the Government of Law and Justice through the Ministry of the Family. These words, I thank you, I wanted to direct you to Minister Marlena Maląg and Minister. Let me give you an example of the last two weeks when we were able to organize trips for a dozen seniors in the beautiful surroundings of Bieszczady, and then you could also hear such real senior talks and see great gratitude that thanks to these additional measures they could activate and live differently in the autumn of life. My question, Minister: How many seniors benefited from the 14th pension last year and globally what was the amount paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u63	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the 14th pension is concerned, as I mentioned in the first part, it was paid once last year. At the moment, we are working on a solution to make it pay this year too. Here was a similar mechanism as in the 13th pension, except that in the 14th pension we introduced a limit of the amount of the lowest pension in the amount of PLN 2900. Last year, more than 8 million people benefited from the full amount of the lowest pension. Importantly, we put in place a mechanism of zloty for zloty, i.e. when it comes to people who exceeded the amount of PLN 2900, this mechanism of zloty for zloty in this respect also enabled the payment of benefits. If e.g. someone by PLN 100 exceeded the amount of PLN 2900, then by PLN 100 had a lower amount of the lowest pension. These people were almost a million, or more than 9 million people received a 14th pension. There was a small group of pensioners and pensioners, less than 500,000. people with the highest benefits who did not receive it. These people were over 400,000, which is a small group of people who did not benefit from this benefit. As in other situations, there was no possibility of deductions in the 14th pension, and it did not include income in other benefits. In total, in 2021 we spent over PLN 11 billion on the 14th pension. This year, we are already announcing, we also want to introduce a 14th pension. It is worth noting that earlier we did not plan it because we introduced a tax-free amount for pensioners. Up to $2.5,000. zł Retirists do not pay tax, but due to the high inflation of this year's 14th pension we want to introduce on similar terms, which will also be a pretty high limit which will entitle to the lowest full pension. A cashier's mechanism will be used for a cashier's fee. Like last year, we want this benefit to be paid in the autumn - whether it be November or October, there is not yet a final decision. Like the 13th or 14th pension, there will be no applications to those institutions that deal with the payment - whether it is the Social Insurance Institution, because it is the main contractor of the laws concerning the 13th and 14th pensions, but also the KRUS, the uniformed services. All those who are entitled will be able to benefit from this benefit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the coming weeks, the bill will be prepared and consulted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies, for asking questions. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marcin Kierwiński and Mr Maciej Lasek from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the transfer of radioactive materials from Russia through the Polish sky to the power plant in Hungary and the threat of paralysis of the Polish sky for aircraft traffic due to the crisis related to the employment of air traffic controllers at the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of whom the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, will answer, whom I warmly welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! It's been 64 days since the attack of Putin Russia on Ukraine. The whole democratic world is imposing sanctions so as not to finance the crimes of Russian soldiers on the population of Ukraine. And at that time, it is completely incomprehensible, the Polish government consents that the Russians carry over our territory fuel for the expansion of a nuclear power plant in Hungary by the Russian concern Rosatom. The same Hungary, whose government does not agree to energy sanctions against Russia, does not hand over Ukraine's weapons and even does not agree to its transport over its territory. What is the advantage in this for Poland and Ukraine, which we support, when the Czechs and Finns resign from their cooperation with Rosatom, but do not support Russia? Orbán is probably Putin's closest ally in Europe. And the state is allowing the rubles paid for Russian nuclear fuel to finance this war? Why did the Civil Aviation Authority recommend authorising these services? I understand President Samson, he's an official, but he's making decisions on some political grounds. Suddenly it turns out that the Polish government, in express mode, gives this consent. 5, 10, 19, 24 April - then these flights were made. On April 5th, there is a request for a recommendation to the Foreign Minister whether this flight can take place. And April 5th is the answer: yes, absolutely. Minister! For months, you haven't found time to ensure security in the Polish sky. Months. But you did find time to support Orbán, who, in fact, supports Putin. Why? This is a really important question today. I hope that the conflict I mentioned, the conflict of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, will soon be resolved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u67	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u68	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, The exception to the ban on flights of aircraft and carriers of the Russian Federation provides for a regulation of the European Union. This is Regulation No 2022/334 of the European Union of 28 February 2022 amending Council Regulation No 883/2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia's actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine on the basis of which the flight of aircraft and air carriers of the Russian Federation in the European Union was prohibited. This regulation provides for exceptions to this prohibition. Such exceptions shall be those of humanitarian status and of the following status: emergency condition, return flights of rented aircraft for which the consent of the relevant European aviation authorities has been given, and emergency landing or emergency flight. Let me remind you once again: the consent of the relevant European aviation authorities has been given. Pursuant to the Regulation, competent authorities may authorise the landing of a Russian aircraft in the territory of the European Union, take-off or flight over the territory, provided that those competent authorities have previously stated that such landing, take-off or flight is necessary for humanitarian reasons or any other reason compatible with the objectives of this Regulation. As regards the question, it should be noted that Hungary requested permission to fly over the Polish territory aircraft with fuel for the Paks nuclear power plant, which was expanded by the Russian state nuclear power corporation Rosatom. The speech stresses that transport is exceptional, is extremely important for maintaining the safe operation of the nuclear power plant and for maintaining the security of supply for the Hungarian consumer. Before Russia's aggression on Ukraine, fuel for the Hungarian nuclear power plant was delivered from Russia by rail through Ukraine. The flights in question took place on 5 April, 10 April, 19 April and 24 April. Where the route of such a flight runs through the territory of several countries of the European Union, the relevant approval and acceptance of the flight plan shall take place at Eurocontrol level, the European Organisation for Foreign Affairs. Safety of air navigation based in Brussels and with the agreement and agreement of the Member States of the European Union over whose territory the planned flight path is taking place. Let me remind you once again: if an air transport operation is carried out through the territory of several countries, the approval and acceptance of the flight plan shall take place at Eurocontrol level. The Hungarian party consulted the European Commission and the Euratom Supply Agency on the date and reasons for the planned deliveries and the European Commission agreed to the transport in question. [[What was the government's opinion?]] From the point of view of aviation safety, the proposal was assessed by the President of the Civil Aviation Authority, who stated that these flights were not a threat to Polish airspace. He then forwarded the request to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers with a request for a directional decision in the present case. The preparation of the opinion was assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, coordinating the criminal policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has responded positively to the conclusion. It is worth noting that nuclear energy it is not subject to any European Union sanctions and the carriage of radioactive materials by air while maintaining adequate safety rules is permitted by law on the carriage of dangerous goods by air. By the way, it should be mentioned that similar flights took place at the request of Slovakia and the Czech Republic. I would like to remind the questioners that such flights were organised in March, i.e. March 3 - from Moscow to Brno, March 15 - to Bratislava, March 17 - to Bratislava and March 31 - to Brno. And when it was agreed to carry radioactive materials in Hungary, then it was agreed with the Slovak government, as with the Polish government. So it's not that only the Polish side supports Orbán, who supports, as you said here, Putina. I don't know if I got it right, but that's what I figured out from the question that was asked. There are Members who know this very well, and they can be said to be experts in this area. And the Member who asked the question, Mr Lasek, is such (the bell) an expert. The Member knows for sure that it is not possible to prohibit the carriage of materials, air services if they are carried out they in the category, in the clause: state of emergency. [[Did you agree to this? Then why don't you carry Russian weapons in distress?]] Such a clause was used and consent was given to all. By the way. When you talk about relations with Russia and Putin, I will remind you that the four existing blocks of the Paks nuclear power plant, the Hungarian power plant, are producing more than half of the electricity in Hungary. In 2014 the Council Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orbán agreed that Russia would be ordered to expand the power plant by two more blocks. The investment worth EUR 12 billion is financed at 80% of the Russian loan. Can you recall what position the Civic Platform had on these projects in 2014? Wasn't that the time when you said that economic, energy projects carried out by Russia have a future and need to be implemented in harmony and in co-ordination? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We were just finishing up...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u69	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marcin Kierwiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is another show of political schizophrenia performed by you and the PiS team. We're not asking if it was an exception or not, we're asking why you agreed to this exception because you didn't have to agree to why you went after Putin again, because it's just incomprehensible. [[Applause]] Poles support Ukraine, they are solidarity with Ukraine, they pay a fortune for fuel, and at that time you support Putin's closest ally. Completely incomprehensible. Whose side are you guys on? Hungary prohibits transit through its territory of humanitarian aid to Ukraine, and at that time you allow our territory, the Polish territory, to transfer aid to Putin's agents. I mean, it's completely insane. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you doing? Minister! You can justify these exceptions here with thousands of regulations. You already wanted to say that it is the European Union, and at the very end you wanted to say that it is Tusk. No, these are your decisions. You'll have to understand that, won't you? Finally, understand that it is impossible to talk at the same time about how tough you are, how you fight Russia, how you support sanctions for Russia, how you are the leader of sanctions for Russia, and quietly, as no one can see, you help this Putin as much as you can. It's really impossible to understand, it's some kind of show of unbelievable political schizophrenia. Last sentence. The Lord says: we call, you call, you suggest that Hungary supports Putin. Do you know who's suggesting who's talking straight? Mr. President Zelenski, listen to him. You have a simple choice: either on Złenski's side or on Putin's side. Once again, speaking from this speaker, he's on Putin's side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u71	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The organisation of these air transports was agreed with the European Commission. That is not enough, I think that Mr Samson, President of the Civil Aviation Authority, if asked for details, will confirm that the European Commission has requested permission to organise these flights, explaining this to the state of emergency. And that was the European Commission's suggestion. I am the one who is now proposing that Mr Putin, who has accused me of supporting Putin, should address questions to his friends, colleagues who in the European Parliament... [[The Polish government is asked about your position.]] ...they can and certainly will do so very willingly, attack the authorities of the European Union, those who suggest, those who ask and ask for this consent. [[Minister, will you answer your opinion? Simple answer. What was your opinion?]] [[Keep your voice down.]] On the other hand, I apologise to you, I would like to address Mr Chase, and you have drawn attention to the Polish Air Navigation Agency in the final part of your question on behalf of Members. Everything points to this, such signals arrive, that air traffic in Poland will not be affected by partial, total or minor paralysis. Everything points to the fact that the contracting parties are already reaching an agreement. I hope that today such a communication, which is precisely this agreement, will be able to be transmitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: And a month ago it was possible?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u73	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Andrzej Grzyb and Mieczysław Kasprzak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will ask a question on the development of biogas production. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and will be answered by the Secretary of State in this Ministry by Minister Ryszard Bartosik. I ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, At the beginning of March, the European Commission presented the REPowerEU plan. Its aim is to increase the resilience of the Member States' energy system and diversify gas supply sources by increasing LNG imports, by importing pipelines from suppliers outside Russia, and by using biomethane and renewable hydrogen. In order to increase the production of chloromethane in the Union, sustainable biomass sources, such as household waste biomass and agricultural waste and residues, are envisaged and a production of around 35 billion m is to be achieved in 2030. Poland currently operates slightly over 350 biogas plants, including 130 agricultural plants. The others operate at waste water treatment plants and landfills. Production is around 0.5 million m So I wanted to ask how the government intends to increase the production of biogas in line with the new objectives of both the Polish energy strategy (The Bell) and European documents. Does it intend to launch a programme of financial support for better regulation for local authorities in order to process biomass from municipal households? And the question is what role energy companies have in the process of biogas production in the government's programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. According to tradition, we will greet you at the gallery. Young people, we salute you. Where are you from, tell me. [[Voice from the Lubaczów room.]] Very well, we greet the young people of Lubaczowska. [[Applause]] Minister, I invite you to answer the Member's question. The responsibility is great, the more the youth from Lubaczów listens to us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u76	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will be able to refer in part to the questions asked here, because, with regard to questions 1 and 2 in accordance with the Law on Government Departments, it is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs, among other things. issues related to the development and use of renewable energy sources, as well as the management of programmes and the coordination of programmes for the dissemination and promotion of the use of low-carbon, zero-carbon technologies, in particular renewable energy sources and transport. In addition, on the basis of the Law on Chapters, pursuant to Article. 7th Act, the tasks of the Minister responsible for energy matters include: issues related to the energy market, raw materials and fuels and the energy security of the country, including energy supply, energy raw materials and fuels. On the other hand, as regards the third question, concerning the initiation of State policy on the use of State property in order to ensure its rational, efficient use, increase its value and the implementation of the economic policy of the State, these tasks are the responsibility of the Minister responsible for State assets. Whatever the above, I would like to inform you that the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development is taking numerous initiatives on the development of biogas production in the field of legislative work, in particular on the Renewable Energy Act of 20 February 2015. A number of facilitations have been introduced for agricultural biogas plants which are particularly important for agriculture, which are exempt from the obligation to obtain concessions of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for simple registration at the National Agricultural Support Centre, to reduce the obligation to prepare an assessment of the environmental impact of investments for large installations only, and to enable farmers to build microgas plants on the basis of a notification, to sell surplus electricity without having to register non-agricultural economic activities and to introduce a simple support system for the smallest installations of biogas in the form of guaranteed tariffs and a system of aid to the market price. Within the framework of the current draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development reiterated the request for a support system for the development of biomethane production. Similar solutions have been proposed to the solution currently in the electricity market support scheme in the form of market price subsidies. Agricultural biogas plants in addition to the above mentioned above. Simplification will also receive financial support in the new financial perspective. The main source of support for RES development, including agricultural biogas plants, will be cohesion policy programmes, including regional operational programmes and the European Funds for infrastructure, climate and the environment. These measures will be complemented by a Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy for the period 2023-2027, which will provide for support for farmers for the construction of micro-installation of agricultural biogas on farms. These are installations with a power not exceeding 50 kW. Currently, smaller agricultural biogas plants can receive support from the new edition launched last year for farmers of the Agroenergy Priority Programme, which aims to increase the production of energy from renewable sources in the agricultural sector. It consists of two parts, the first of which concerns the micro-installation of heat pumps and accompanying energy storage, while the second part of the programme is dedicated to agricultural biogas plants and small power plants with a capacity not exceeding 500 kW. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u77	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to ask a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u78	Young people escaped from Lubaczów, and I also wanted to say hello. Greetings, if you can hear, young people from Lubaczów.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u79	He does not, unfortunately, hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u80	He can't hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u81	And I hope she didn't run away because of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u82	Minister! You were framed here for this answer, because it is indeed the authority of another minister. We addressed this question to the Deputy Prime Minister to explain himself comprehensively how he was going to support agricultural biogas plants, waste management, and you had to explain yourself. You only actually keep a record of these biogas plants. We don't have any progress. As far as support is concerned, it's zero, because biogas plants aren't developing. But why are they important right now? Because most of all these are Polish raw materials. Even in the context of the fact that... When we wrote that question, we didn't have that gas situation from Putin yet. Today (the bell) it is very important and important that this gas... The gas from the biogas plant is what we produce, we extract in Poland. It's clean gas. Putin's gas is a transition gas, and this gas is a clean gas that we can use. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u83	Thank you very much, sir, for asking the question. It's time...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u84	The second thing is...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u85	I'll give you half a minute more.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u86	I'll finish, but I had an entrance like this...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u87	You had a wonderful entrance, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u88	You always say we don't have stable renewable energy sources. The sun isn't shining... [[Voice from the room: It shines, all the time.]] ...the wind doesn't blow, but this source is very stable...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u89	Okay. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u90	...and it fits into a three-pack of energy, this three-pack of energy, in terms of renewable energy, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u92	And pass this on to the rulers...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u93	Great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u94	...that this is very important, important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u95	Now we're asking the Minister for an answer. I gave you a minute more. Don't look at me with bad eyes when... [[Mr. Marshal, I'll take it from you next time.]] You just have to talk a little faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would ask Members asking, however, to ask the Minister of Climate Affairs once again, the Minister of State Assets with this question and the answer to this question will certainly be given to a wider extent. But, of course, I agree with you that we should go in that direction, and we should go. We will therefore be spending money on this from the European programmes. This is also a very good source for agricultural crops, the liquefaction of these agricultural fruits and additional income for farmers. However, in the current situation, we must remember that wherever we can, we should use the area primarily for cereal production and food production, because the situation is difficult in this regard. That's most of all. Nevertheless, I agree with the idea that the production of clean gas, clean energy is very necessary and should be developed prospectively. On the one hand, it will be an additional source of income for farmers, and on the other hand it will be an additional source of energy production, clean energy, and of course we should go in this direction. Biogas plants are created, especially smaller, agricultural ones, of which I am very happy, and farmers can benefit from the opportunities available today to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak and Mrs Lidia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question on support for farmers in connection with the approval by the European Commission of a Polish scheme to support farmers worth PLN 3.9 billion. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will answer on behalf of the Minister of State, who had just responded. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 19 April, the European Commission approved a Polish agricultural support programme worth nearly PLN 4 billion. This is very good news for Polish farmers. This decision means the consent of the Polish government for subsidies to fertilisers for Polish farmers. The decision was expected by the Polish government. The Polish government has been asking for this for some time. The beneficiaries of the scheme will be able to receive subsidies for agricultural land, grassland and pasture. This translates into real support not only for farmers, but also for all Poles who will pay less for food products. As a result, this solution will help ensure food security in our country. The Government of Law and Justice has consistently implemented a programme of support for the Polish village, which includes among others. an insurance scheme for farmers, an apple buy-in programme and examples of actions prepared by the Law and Justice Government for farmers in recent years are an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield, an anti-putin shield, an agricultural fuel subsidy, a reduction in VAT on food, support and compensation during natural disasters. Helping Polish farmers is a fundamental issue, especially during crises and threats. The programme approved by the European Commission will support farmers who have experienced the effects of the increase in production costs resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and from sanctions. This is an investment in the Polish economy and strategic support of the Polish industry sector. This aid will take the form of direct grants and will be granted at the request of the agricultural producer. Minister! What conditions must Polish farmers fulfil in order to receive this funding? And is there such or similar support scheme for farmers in other Member States of the European Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you kindly for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u99	Thank you for asking the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u100	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! First of all, I would like to start by saying that nearly PLN 4 billion is our national resources, from our budget. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, Ministry of Agriculture responds to all crises and demands. Such a crisis is the gas crisis which directly affected the prices of fertilisers. Ladies and gentlemen! We have submitted a proposal to the European Commission. But the proposal is only the consent of the European Commission, the money comes from our budget. So this is another shield for one of the branches, perhaps the most important at the moment - for farmers. I would like to thank Polish farmers for buying fertilisers and for having sown these fertilisers in the same quantities as last year because they trusted the government. We immediately responded to these price increases and announced such support. We were only waiting for the consent of the European Commission. That's the kind of consent we've gotten. Today a farmer can submit an application. This application is submitted to the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. However, in order to be able to submit such a request, it must, of course, also apply for direct payments. First, it submits an application for direct payments and then an application for income support for lost income due to the increase in fertiliser prices. If such a request is submitted, it has purchase invoices or registered receipt, such support is possible to obtain. This will be calculated on the basis of a special formula which will determine the difference compared to the price of fertilisers before the crisis, i.e. before 1 September Ub. r., because this support can be obtained for the period from 1 September ub. from 15 May of this year. These applications can be submitted by the end of May 2022, as well as applications for direct payments, as well as this date, and we extend this date so that it is clear and convenient for farmers. There is therefore an extension of the possibility to submit these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another support for farmers. The Member mentioned support for apple producers. This project is being implemented. But we have also supported farmers before in relation to ASF, and there we have also paid income differences. We have support for dungeon, i.e. for the production of small piglets, and this support is also being implemented, and it is very successful. About 30,000 today. farmers have already submitted applications, but the whole month of May is still ahead of us. There's 1,200 grand. farmers. We call on them to make as many of them as possible. This support will be implemented. Thus, the government responds to adverse actions, in this case to measures related to the gas crisis, to war in Ukraine. As I said, our information shows that the amount of fertilizer purchased has not decreased, so this will not affect the yield this year. Of course, the yield depends not only on the amount of fertiliser, but also on other conditions, the weather above all. Ladies and gentlemen! We forgot this support very early, without the consent of the European Commission. We were hoping to get that consent, and with certain perturbations, because it took a long time, we got it. But there is one more important thing: only our country, only Poland, has such support. At this level, none of the European Union's countries apply such support. That's what I'd like to say and emphasize. This is happening with a huge budget effort, because 4 billion zlotys are huge money. I would like to say, in comparison, that when it comes to the refund of excise duty on fuel, this is 1.3 billion a year, and here we give an additional 4 billion PLN. So we can count on support for farmers in billions, which I am very happy about. Once again I would like to emphasize that thanks to this support and food will be cheaper, and this food (the bell) in Poland will certainly not run out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for bringing us closer to the procedures that Polish farmers have to go through to get this funding. You said a very important thing: despite the lack of assurance Polish farmers believed that the Polish government - as in many other spaces - kept its word, supported every social group. Farmers, without looking at the final part of the announcement of subsidising fertilisers, applied this element, which is intended to support crops, and what is associated with this - also food. Minister! I have a question: What number of farmers can be covered by this support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u104	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 1 / 1 million - such a number of farmers may be covered by this support. At the moment, the applications were submitted by 300,000. farmers. However, farmers in May, at the time when the deadlines end, submit applications for direct payments. It's gonna go hand in hand. So that these applications will be submitted in those days. I encourage farmers, I call on them to submit proposals because this will enable the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to settle faster, so they will be able to obtain this support more quickly. Nevertheless, the agency has its working powers, and we need to check everything out. This is public aid, but if these applications are submitted correctly, the support will be provided quickly. We want to help farmers in this difficult situation. Once again, it is worth emphasizing what I said earlier, as you have said: the confidence of farmers in the government was, but only because the previous promises... Since 2015 it is a novel in Polish politics: someone who makes promises and writes something in programs, then realizes it. That is, finally, our society trusts in what those who represent them in the government say. And that's what happened this time. I would like to say that if necessary, the Polish government, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for crises - hopefully there will be as little as possible of them, hopefully no longer happen - will react. We will continue to support Polish farmers. As you can see in this case, this support is mainly based on the national budget. I thank the farmers for their trust and thank them for producing good Polish food. And thanks to fertilising support, this food will be in sufficient quantity for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. One last question. Mr Jerzy Małecki and Mr Robert Telus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about helping farmers buy fertilizers. And this will be answered by the Minister, whom we have already heard twice today. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u106	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This question slightly coincides with the previous question, but it is such an important question, it is such a great help to farmers that they should be repeated and answered. Fertilizer prices are currently one of the biggest problems of the Polish village. Following numerous calls and further requests addressed to the European Commission, we have obtained long-awaited agreement to support farmers in this area. The bureaucracy and delay in issuing a positive decision caused the money to reach Polish farmers with delay. Many of them could not afford to buy nitrogen fertilisers, which we will probably see during the harvest. I hope not. The farmers will receive a record sum, almost PLN 4 billion. However, this amount is limited. There are therefore concerns that if the demand for aid exceeds this amount, less support will be given to farmers. Concerns can also be justified, especially if we take into account the current decision of Russia to suspend gas supplies to Poland. Gas is essential in the production of fertilisers. It's his price that brings up the price of fertilizer. I would therefore like to ask: Does the government provide for another aid tool for farmers in the event of further increases in fertiliser prices and increasing the problem of their availability? Minister, you often meet farmers in the country. How do farmers receive this aid proposal? Do they consider our help adequate, and are they satisfied with this? I know that this help comes a little late, because this time for fertilizer sowing is a little past, but this is also about the refund of those purchases that were made in the previous months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u107	Thank you. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u108	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We responded very early. The Prime Minister announced that we would like to activate this support. As it was public aid, there was a need for approval from the European Commission. And that's what we applied for. Nevertheless, the first approach, so to speak, is that the proposal has not been recognised. We referred to the COVID regulations there, because that was the possibility at the time. The European Commission has not recognised this proposal, it has been pointed out that it will be possible to use the shield associated with the war in Ukraine. We quickly repeated this proposal. We have been in contact with Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski the whole time. With this second proposal, things have gone faster and we have obtained such consent. This was a little bit of a wonder for us, because - as I have already said here - the money comes from the national budget and the European Commission only needed permission to spend money, to help farmers from the national budget. But we're glad it happened. This will indeed have an impact on the delay of these payments, compensation for farmers. It is, as it is, we deal with this situation. I think farmers are pleased with this and it is surprising for them to know that only in Poland on such a scale are we helping farmers. It is the only country in the European Union where we are helping farmers on such a scale as to support the rise in fertiliser prices. Is that enough support? Often, when I'm at meetings with farmers or with self-governments, the words are: thank you, please again. And if necessary - I hope that these crises will no longer be - we will respond. Farmers benefit because corn is still sowing, and they will benefit from this support, because fertilizer purchases are still ongoing, and, as you also mentioned, we return this difference in price if it took place since September 1st ub.r. So you can use it. Those farmers who bought this fertiliser can benefit from it before. I hope and trust that this support will have a positive impact on budgets, spending, on costs, reducing costs for farmers who produce food. I would also like to say that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, presenting actions related to the war in Ukraine... The anti-putin shield supporting the Polish economy had two points at the beginning: this is the fertilising support and subsidies for agricultural crop insurance, agricultural crops, which is also worth mentioning. They are very interested and we add 65% to the contribution here. We have also introduced a new solution: this contribution can be deducted from area subsidies. Therefore, an appropriate application must be submitted to the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. These subsidies can be deducted from the contribution for farmers - it was also a request of unions, agricultural organisations and we implement it. So there's a lot of aid, and there's a lot of aid, and it's not in millions anymore, it's in billions of zlotys. Everything is being transferred from the national budget at the moment. Once again, I urge farmers to submit applications for area subsidies and fertilising support to the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as soon as possible so that they do not wait until the end of this deadline. It is very, very important for everyone to make these requests, because if they are submitted after the deadline, unfortunately this support will no longer be available. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u109	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u110	Minister, if you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you one more question. Of course, it is like the Minister said that these mills of the European Union are grinding very slowly. This is, I think, bad for us, because this announcement was a long time ago and we had to wait for this motion to be processed. The first application was rejected, the second was accepted. I think that the European Union should have a moral hangover because it is the European Union that has led to the crisis that we have in Europe right now. The policy of the European Union, Mrs Merkel, Mr Tusk, has led to the strengthening of Putin... [[Dude, think about what you're talking about.]] ...and let Putin even turn off the gas or start a war in Ukraine. Today, with regard to this proposal, we had to wait for him for a very long time. On the other hand, my question concerns a different question. Yesterday, one of my former Members, Wojciech Zarzycki, called me and said that there was not enough information in the agencies and that there was not enough information to reach farmers. What the Ministry (Bell) does to make this information important for the Polish farmer, which concerns the next support given to farmers by the Polish government...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u112	...to reach out to all the farmers in Poland so that they could benefit from the help of the Polish government?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u113	Minister, I'm inviting you for the last time today. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u114	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as information is concerned, I think that it reaches and reaches - it should reach - all farmers. It is primarily published by the Ministry of Agriculture and all agricultural government agendas, mainly by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as well as agricultural chambers, for which I thank them very much. But there was also a long discussion on this subject in public space, as well as information in the media, so this information should reach all farmers. For example, through our discussion today and these questions, we promote information about fertiliser subsidies. I will indeed agree with you that we are paying - and Polish farmers are paying - for the policy of Germany and Chancellor Angela Merkel, because this consequently translates into today's situation. We also pay for irresponsible governments of the Civic Platform and PSL... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because we're the ones who brought this on... [[Voice from the room: To the ruins.]] ...that it will be possible to supply gas, oil from other sources than Russian sources. The State relied only on agreements with Russia, which were to be concluded until 2037, which was very irresponsible. [[Voice from the hall: What about the Easter confession already completed?]] And I don't know what situation we'd be in today if governments were in different hands. We have led to this because we are using gas and oil supplies from other countries, that we are creating a new pipeline that provides gas from Norway, which has already been proposed, and what has later been abandoned by subsequent governments... [[Voice from the room: By Prime Minister Tusk.]] ...because they were all heading towards Russian. [[Voice from the hall: What about fertilisers?]] Right now we're talking about the consequences of this policy and this is a hit on farmers... [[And how much did they get?]] ...because farmers suffer consequences because of what happened before 2015... [[The farmer's gas was cut off.]] ...when the state supplied the Russian gas roads, which is supposed to burn in the kitchens of some people just as much as others. [[The farmer got cut off last night.]] My house is burning worse and I'd rather not smoke it, I'd rather smoke gas from other sources. So farmers bear the cost of a misguided fuel and energy policy in your day. [[Tusk's wine, right? Tusk's fault.]] Therefore, we need to introduce a shield and such action, which is being carried out, is an addition to fertilisers. Farmers shall submit their applications and be compensated by the national budget in no time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u115	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the situation of Poles in the face of inflation, high interest rates and melting savings will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club by the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Before we proceed with this point, I would like to say hello to the ladies and gentlemen who are listening to our deliberations. They are applicants of the Dresden Higher District Court. It's very nice to meet you. Let's give a round of applause to the German judges' applicants. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Independent courts!]] Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We have warned you from this speaker repeatedly that the summer of the grasshopper will one day be over. Unfortunately, the PiS didn't listen to us. Today we all pay for the inability, arrogance and dishonesty of this government. [[Applause]] They pay the young people who borrowed their only apartments, they pay those who believe that saving makes sense, and they pay all those who ask the price three times each day at the store because they don't believe it's more expensive than it was a week ago. What does the government do? The government breaks hands, the Prime Minister says it's Putin's fault. Previously, the European Union was responsible for the cost, and it was said that inflation was not at all at all. President Glapiński even said that inflation does not affect the wallets of Poles. I think it was this press conference, after which no one takes it seriously anymore, and inflation in Poland from walking turned into galloping. Instead of inventing ineffective shields - expensive and ineffective shields, because inflation today is 11% , and probably April will be higher - do what you need to do to reduce inflation. We'll give you a hint. First of all, you must not vote on the biggest pest in the history of Mr. Adam Glapiński's central bank for another term, because it will be an act to the detriment of Poland (Applause), it will be a defence of the party interest, nothing more. Secondly, the government cannot block EUR 58 billion from the National Reconstruction Plan in order to protect its party interest. This money should be used for investments for 9 months (Applause) and the exchange for gold could effectively reduce and stop inflation. The money from the National Reconstruction Plan is a real way to reduce inflation painlessly and effectively. [[Voice from the room: Interesting.]] These are money for good schools, for invested hospitals, for investments by local governments. This is money for a real civilization leap, not for your stupid promises of a million electric cars and luxtorpeda. [[Applause]] Is it so much - putting the public interest, the interest of the state over your private and party? If you're not ready for this, resign. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why didn't you direct this to Mr. Donald Tusk?]] I'll say it again: difficult times are coming. Read a story about a grasshopper and ants - you'll see how he ended up a grasshopper. For these difficult times, the Civic Coalition has solutions. In addition to these two that I told you about - throw Adam Glapiński out of the central bank and finally unblock the funds from the KPO - we propose three laws to you. Two we can vote on at this session of the Sejm: one that we submitted two days ago, about aid for borrowers who bought their own only flat on loan, and the other about bonds that will protect the savings of Poles, bonds that will draw money from the market, bonds that will really stop the growing inflation. These bonds will also make banks finally raise the interest rate on deposits and deposits, because here Mr Morawiecki's appeals, false ones, are not enough. Finally, the third law announced by Prime Minister Donald Tusk - a 20% increase in wages in the budgetary sphere. Labour people, belittled and often humiliated by this government, people who work in education, health care, cultural institutions, offices, local governments, must be professionals, they must be well educated and well paid, because the quality of their work is about the quality of our country and about the quality of our lives. Instead of lying, hit your chest and admit that almost 70% of inflation is inflation generated by the PiS government and by the central bank. Apologize to the people, accept our laws, and if you don't, finally give this government to resign. And we really know how to clean up this mess for you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You wish, you would.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course, we would.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u117	We also know what would happen if you got into power. We know that. [[...to conduct the deliberations.]] I am now asking you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to this question, I will start with a miracle that has occurred in recent weeks, namely the Civic Platform itself, a party that has changed into a liberal party, a so-called party. free market, she simply admitted that in the liberal Poland dispute with Poland, Poland wins jointly and severally. Because your postulates, often without financial calculations, without concrete details, are a clear confirmation that Poland is a joint and several choice for these two Polish countries. Since 2005, and so for a long time this thought has been going on, and you have come to this conclusion for a long time, but well, we are happy about it. It is a good thing that we agree that Poland is a joint and several choice of Poles. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point and about the subject.]] It is Poland that is jointly and severally responsible for the policy that should be pursued by public authorities. But as far as the other points that Mrs Leszczyn was concerned are concerned, it is difficult to agree with that. First of all, the claim that the shields are ineffective. I personally find it hard to admit, but I also think to millions of Poles that reducing VAT on petrol to 8% is ineffective because the prices at the gas stations show otherwise. It is difficult to admit that almost 4 billion subsidies for fertilisers for farmers, which Minister Bartosik mentioned just now, is inefficient aid. I think farmers have a different opinion about this. It is difficult to admit that the VAT reduction - 0% - for food is an ineffective aid. I understand that for you, the effective help is what you did in the government of Donald Tusk, which is to increase VAT by 1 percentage point. If this is effective help for Polish citizens, if this is effective help in the fight against inflation, it is difficult for me to agree. We lower taxes, we lower PIT, we lower VAT, we lower excise duty, we lower CIT taxes. Your only prescription was to increase VAT by 1 percentage point. These are your recipes for fighting inflation. We can't take such prescriptions. [[And in 2015, who picked it up?]] President Glapiński's vote. I'll be honest with you, it's a shame to hear such things. President Glapiński, when the biggest economic crisis has erupted for 100 years, not only in Poland, but around the world, launched a mechanism through which the government was able to run financial shields protecting Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens for over PLN 100 billion in a dozen days. It was the policy of President Glapiński that helped protect the jobs of Poles. Today we should thank President Glapiński, because if it were not for his courage and determination, we could not talk about one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union today. It was President Glapiński who implemented this policy. I understand your remorse, because the President of NBP of your nomination, Marek Belka, during the debt crisis in the European Union, did not take any steps to protect Polish society and Polish companies, just as the government of the Civic Platform did not. [[Union policy...]] Today President Belka compared to President Glapiński can be called the President of helplessness. The President of Glapiński was the helpless President of NBP for 6 years. He did absolutely nothing to protect Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And today you criticize the President of Glapiński, who allowed us to activate the aid shields. It's just a shame. KPO. I think we can really agree here. Since Prime Minister Donald Tusk is such an effective politician, so-called. A statesman, as you claim, show his effectiveness. Show that Prime Minister Donald Tusk can agree not only to build a pipeline Nord Stream 2. [[Voice from the room: He's not the only one in this government...]] Let me see that. Show that Prime Minister Tusk is not the only one who can agree to this. [[And what was inflation?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u119	Don't scream, don't scream. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Show that Prime Minister Tusk can also arrange something beneficial for Poland. [[The inflation is zero.]] You can't see it today, you can't see it today. You're talking about effectiveness in the international arena. Okay, well, let's show that effectiveness in the international arena. The day before yesterday, your biggest ally in the European Union, Germany... You weren't able to block it. Nord Stream 2. You are not in a position to help negotiate with the European Commission with regard to the NPOs. On the other hand, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was at a meeting with Chancellor Scholz the day before yesterday, he encouraged him to help Ukraine. What effect? The results of today's vote in the Bundestag on the possibility of supplying heavy weapons to Ukraine: for - 586 Members of the German Bundestag, against - 100, abstained 7. The bill passed. The day before yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about it. Show me you've got at least 50%. as effective in international politics as Prime Minister Morawiecki, and you will really serve Poland then. Show me you can do it. [[Applause]] [[What a hero.]] Growth of wages in the budgetary sphere. This is another scandal you can tell us about. How much did the basic amount in civil service increase during the rule of the Civic Platform? Zero. Since 2008, it's been zero, you haven't picked up anything. [[There's more inflation...]] You have not proposed any cover program during the financial crisis for civil servants. However, since 2015, compared to 2020, the average salary in civil service has increased by 40%. This is the data that the CUS reports, and no one questioned it. This is how civil servants' wages have increased. Show me the data, as long as it increased during the reign of Donald Tusk and Eve Kopacz. I'm very curious about this number, share it, please. I'm asking you to. [[And inflation still.]] [[Tell the Minister about inflation.]] One thing you can do is scream. [[No, we're asking for inflation.]] Then let the Minister speak. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Another thing. From screaming, ladies and gentlemen, neither deficit nor inflation will go down. They'll only go down because of the hard work we've been doing for a few quarters. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You can't shout arguments. [[The Minister is yelling at us.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we're doing. I think, ladies and gentlemen, today it is worth talking about a few things, about effective programs. It is about anti-inflationary shields, previously proposed anti-putin shields, and now a cover program for Polish borrowers. Yeah, we see the problem. We see it in contrast to you, because I would very much like to remind you of the level of interest rates in your governments, because this is the amount that is worth reminding you of. Please: the reference interest rate of the National Bank of Poland around 2008-2009 was 5% Then she fell to 4%. [[Voice from the room: No, it's not.]] [[And in 2007? In your reign?]] That's what they're called. record interest rates. You guys have been through this record trail a long time, a long time ago. It is also worth mentioning issues such as your debt, your budgetary policy. [[Oh, this is gonna be interesting.]] Even though we're implementing very ambitious social programs... [[Very.]] ...Mrs. Leszczyn recommended us a fairy tale. I'll remind you another story, about a boy who said three times that there was a fire in the village, and he didn't burn at any time. The fourth time he was on fire, no one believed him. Since 2015, you have regularly threatened that public finances are in a state of devastation... [[There they are.]] ...that we can't afford 500+ that we can't afford other programs. [[They are.]] Yes? Are they? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] How much was the deficit in the public finance sector for last year calculated according to the EU methodology, covering all expenditure, including the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund? [[And how's the debt...]] 1.9% - that's our deficit for last year. You know who had a record deficit twice in a row? Civil Platform government, twice in a row deficit of 7%. Those were your deficits. [[And when was that?]] Our deficit once, a year after the worst crisis we've had in 100 years, that's down to 1.9%. A year after the biggest crisis, is that what you think is the devastation of public finances? Or is it the devastation of public finances that Poland has the sixth lowest deficit in the European Union for 2021? If we are in a situation where public finances are devastated, then what do we call the situation of Belgium, France or even Germany? If we're in devastation with a lower deficit or a lower debt, those countries should have gone bankrupt long ago, and somehow they're not declaring bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in fiscal policy, in pro-social policy, two things are really important: peace and credibility. We maintain this credibility and try to sustain it also in foreign markets. The situation is really difficult. On the one hand, our difficult task is to propose programmes as ambitious as possible, as pro-socially as possible, protecting Poles from the consequences of inflation, but on the other hand, programmes well counted, such as we can afford, which can bear the state budget. We have been doing this very successive and very meticulously since 2015. We're gonna keep doing this. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Fifty MPs after two minutes? I'm afraid a large part of you won't be able to ask a question. [[It's okay.]] We'll try. [[Voice from the room: After 1.5 minutes.]] I can, of course, shorten it to a minute. [[No, two minutes.]] Then more of you will fit. [[How about a minute and a half?]] [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] One and a half minutes. We'll see how many people can make it. I'm closing the list of reporters. I'm opening a discussion. Please, as the first Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition, as we see in today's discussion, does not realize that we are at a particular moment in history, that we must go beyond the current patterns of thinking and action. Only three days after the Russian aggression, putinian Ukraine, could we expect reasonable action in the High House. That time has passed. The whole world is facing an increase in prices. The President of the United States clearly points to the guilt of Russia and Putin, who started the bandit war. You must not absolve Russia's war machine with a very negative impact on the economy as a whole. Russia has engaged in energy security in Europe, has attacked food security, has hit the European economy through gas blackmail and price manipulation. Joe Biden, it is worth noting in this House that, during his speech at the University of North Carolina, he said directly: Putin's invasion of Ukraine made gas and oil prices go up all over the world. People don't know that 70% inflation increases are a consequence of price increases due to Russia's attack on Ukraine. Doesn't even Joe Biden's words speak to the opposition today? The ambassador of Ukraine in Poland Andriy Desszczycia also draws attention to the global problem. Minister! Please answer the question: Did Donald Tusk's consent, today it was mentioned (the bell), for the construction of... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u121	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The inflation hits Poles from many sides because you squandered Poland in 6 years. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] You have led people, local governments, construction companies that are contractors for local governments to a tragic financial condition. They all write and appeal to you, but you pretend not to hear or see. You hide public debt and continue to propaganda the land of milk and honey flowing. In fact, you make decisions without analyzing the risks and reducing those risks so that they can touch people as little as possible. Every greater cost of living in a galloping inflation is wage pressures and aid pressures. The wheel closes, the spiral of wages and prices develops beautifully. It's the most recent example. Yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki in this House, and today Minister Grandpa in this House said that we have natural gas that fully protects our needs, that we are able to cut ourselves off from imports from Russia. Yeah, you cut yourself off. You have cut off locations from Poland, including the City in Wielkopolska, from gas supplies. You didn't anticipate the risks, and you had to anticipate them. A professional, normal government, especially in the crisis, makes particular efforts to reduce risks and anticipate. Are you even prepared for this? What are you going to do about it now? Or are you gonna drop the costs on local governments and locals to solve the problem, which is to make the prices rise again? Minister! And let me tell you, unemployment, you should know, is not a measure of economic condition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The real measure is... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Bravo, Margaret!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u123	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u124	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High interest rates are directly translated into rising rates of housing loans. The current situation on the housing market - not only about buying apartments but also about renting them - is dramatic. These are, of course, the effects of years of neglect in terms of meeting the housing needs of Poles and Poles, the years of neglect of both this government and previous governments. As regards helping Polish families to pay their loan instalments, there is a law of the Left in the Sejm, the law of the Member of Daria Gosek-Popiołek. I'm even asking you if this bill is going to be proceded, just when it's going to be proceded. Polish families deserve to be helped by the Polish government in a difficult situation, so that Poles do not have to wonder what they will do and where they will live next month. We need immediate action to help the Poles. You can't just wait and do nothing. We're waiting to proceed with this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u125	Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u126	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The level of speech in the discussion is becoming embarrassing at times. Poles are not interested in what happened 10 years ago, 8 years ago. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] They don't care what you've been doing, what we've done, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, what we've been doing, how we've been better, what you've been worse. Today, Poles are particularly interested in the fact that their quality of life is decreasing, their loan instalments are increasing, all kinds of life costs are rising. They ask us, and we want to ask the Minister what decisions will be made on this matter. Is there even any discussion with banks about WIBOR, about margins, about other additional credit costs that make the instalments very high? That's my basic question. Are such conversations being held? What stage are they at right now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u127	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u128	Thank you. Dear Marshal, In his speech, Minister Patkowski accused the opposition of not presenting concrete figures. Meanwhile, your shields and now your Social Assistance Act for Ukrainian refugees are also without calculations, you have no problem with that. That's how it happens. Peany for Mr. Glapiński, who created the conditions for the use of anti-crisis shields... And who caused these conditions by closing companies in Poland, leading to bankruptcy many of them? Ladies and gentlemen, it was a farce, printed over 200 billion, of which, of course, you cannot be accounted for. You praised VAT on food reduced to 0%. The Confederacy Project. Thank you for agreeing with us. You also praised the reduction in VAT on fuel. Thank you. Once again, the Confederacy project is called Low Fuel. Thank you for agreeing with us. There is still a further reduction in fuel in the project, which you have not yet benefited from. I recommend you read it, enter it. We're okay. You have not said anything about what you are really going to do to help Poles at this difficult time, in which your solution to inflationary problems is to print more money, i.e. pro-inflationary action. Mr. Glapiński said a year ago that we were in danger of being defunct. He promised there would be no interest rate increases. [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] People who paid loans of 2,000. a month, today they pay 3,000. You don't have any solutions for this. And that's your problem. That's why you should resign. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, we will not pass.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, you would like to, but you won't.]] [[Voice from the hall: We are not from fulfilling dreams.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u129	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The increase in inflation in Poland, which increased in the fourth quarter of 2021, occurred during a period of certain external circumstances. Comparing inflation between 2014 and 2015 with the current period is an intellectual abuse. This is a cynical, ultrapolitical use for political purposes by the opposition. In the period of stable economic situation between 2017 and 2019 inflation in Poland was close to 2% , from 1.6% In 2018, up to 2.3% in 2019, i.e. in the medium term, did not exceed the inflation target. Consumer price growth to 3.4% in 2020 , within the limits of the permissible deviation from the NBP inflation target... [[Voice from the room: I don't think so.]] But it was the year the world's pandemic began. In 2021 inflation accelerated to 5.1% to a large extent as a result of the increase in raw material and energy prices on world markets (the Bell) and in... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[In a pandemic...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u131	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Coalition Poland. [[Coalition of Poland? I'm not... the Civic Coalition.]] Citizen, I'm sorry. I actually misjudged your party affiliation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd advise you to get down on the ground. You're floating in the air, go to the store, to the stall... [[Retired people.]] ...see what the Poles have experienced in recent months (Applause) when they could not buy coal. The fact that they can't, we know, but the fact that they don't have the money to buy that coal... This information appeared, the website of the Polish Mining Group: relax, buy yourself a loose eco peas, relax. What does it turn out to be? They click once, they click twice, they sit all over the family, nothing opens. If you open the other side, there's information: no coal. When the third one opens, go ahead: try again later. And over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and Minister! Do you know that the price of coal in the mine is 700 PLN and at the point of sale is 2 000 PLN.? That forecasts say the price of tons of coal will rise from 2200 to 3200 next year? Do you know that you've launched a program that eliminates the cougars? People bought organic furnaces and they don't have anything to put in, they can't buy it. Minister, it's time to get down on the ground. The Poles know that the government feeds itself, that you have the perfect endowment that you have access to everything, you have your presidents. And people are left alone. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: The Lord has the same as us.]] [[Voice from the room: Glass roofs.]] [[Voice from the gym: Give me the money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u133	Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u134	Minister! You're telling us here that you have no control over anything. I'm not gonna charge you for, I don't know, palm oil prices in Indonesia, but let's talk about something you're affected by. I've got a service here in front of me with announcements from my constituency. Minister, let me quote you: I'll rent an apartment for three people, an opportunity, 19 meters
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u135	Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in rates by the Monetary Policy Council resulted in an increase in bank interest rates and margins. On the other hand, the interest rate on deposits did not increase, or at least not in real terms, in proportion to the interest on loans. As a result, commercial banks showed almost twice the net profit during the first 2 months of the year than during the previous 2 months, and some even six times the profit than before. This situation makes not only savers not motivated to save when deposit rates are not increasing, but also causes what is known in the economy as blocking the transmission of impulses that the central bank directs in monetary policy to the economy through the commercial banking sector. I therefore have a question: Is the Ministry considering introducing solutions to encourage commercial banks to increase deposit rates? I know this is difficult. Has the opposition, which is called here as a great defender of borrowers and savers - by the way, since the beginning of that year have been encouraging interest rates to be raised, and today crocodiles shed tears, as these borrowers are extremely paying the cost (the bell) - offer any concrete solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] [[Contacts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u137	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a good programme of living for young people. You went out because it was ours. You took away young people's chance to buy their apartment when there were favorable conditions on the market. When the situation started to deteriorate dramatically, you encouraged young people to make loans through the Living at the start of the programme. President Glapiński moms and cheats Poles many times because he said that inflation will not increase and interest rates will not be changed. Many Poles believed him. Today they often have instalments up to PLN 1000 higher than last year. And these are not all increases, because energy, gas, food is a burden that many Polish families cannot bear. So the question is, what are you going to do about it? Because we have a proposal - she asked the honourable Member - how to relieve these deceived people by President Glapiński. We propose to freeze mortgage payments for Polish families at the level of December 2021. This will help go through this difficult time caused by the disastrous policy of NBP and the PiS government. All we have to do is just process the bill we made in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Just don't steal.]] [[And don't steal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u139	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u140	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen! Marriage with two children, income 6,000. Net zloty - the average available loan amount in September 2021 amounted to 315 thousand. zł. It was 197,000 a month ago. PLN and currently 136 thousand. zł. Well, let's see what this family can buy in Krakow. On the street. Glogger apartment 10 m [[Voice from the hall: But this is not the subject of the Sejm.]] No, that's the subject of the Seym. The prices of this family's apartments are the subject of the Sejm, because this is a summary of the housing policy that was conducted by the Third Republic of Poland, and this is a summary of the housing policy that the countries of generations conducted for generations born in the 1980s, 1990s and later. Mrs Masłowska asked about the opposition proposal. Yes, Mrs Lew, and the Party Together, they propose to freeze the amount of credit instalments for those whose instalments were increased by PLN 500, PLN 600, PLN 800, PLN 1000, increasing the support from the Creditors Support Fund. You can read our proposals on the pages of the Sejm. We were able to learn about the proposals of Law and Justice from the Prime Minister's slides. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: You need to know what's going on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u141	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You don't have a happy hand, Minister. What you're really picking on was in the opposite direction. You lower and people grow. [[As it grows, that's good.]] What's it like? Maybe you should use the opposite method. Why don't you start raising those taxes because you're lowering all taxes, and people are growing. That's the welfare we have. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: Well, that's normal.]] Let me give you an example. Gas prices. You wanted to lower gas prices, there's going to be war with Putin, independence, you've gone to spot amounts. And what have you led to? You thought you were lowering. You have raised gas prices and Poland has been paying 1 billion dollars per month since 2020, that is 4 billion. Poles have paid more for gas since 2020. [[Applause]] Now multiply each other over the years. It was the Poles who paid. [[Voice from the room: You need to know a little...]] That's how you lower your taxes, so we're asking who signed that deal, and we'd like to know by name, because you guys... all the time... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...you are talking about diversification, but who diversified gas supply in such a way that Poles 4 billion PLN per month pay more. These are solutions, these are proposals. If you have so much money, because the Minister says there's no danger here... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Oh, and you guys did.]] [[Voice from the hall: You have lifted up.]] [[3 zł.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u143	Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We remember about the pandemic, we remember what funding from the state budget was pumped into the economy so that there was no unemployment. [[Please help the co-operatives.]] Out of the pandemic, there is more demand than supply. This is something that is an inflationary target. We are aware that Russia has raised the European Union over the past few years. She convinced that the green order that the gas economy is the best solution for the coming years until 2040. As a result, Russia today showed claws, attacked Ukraine and raised the prices of mining fuels. This is an inflation factor. But here were the words that you, if you take power back, would be able to solve this problem. [[Something about a cooperative in New Thought, sir? We need help.]] I quote the words: Those who understand the elementary economy know that if the government had buttons and one had written low food prices, and on the other high prices, then I would do nothing else, but press this button with low prices. [[There they were.]] Who said that? [[Donald Tusk.]] Tusk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And how much was the bread? How much butter?]] [[Voice from the room: How much did we make?]] And Tusk, being in the European Union, pressed the stop button for measures for Poland from the National Plan for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[But you are a marshal of mercy to the Member. Ten seconds...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u145	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u146	Minister! 4 million households need coal, several hundred thousand - pellets to warm up. What does the government propose to these families, these households? If they have the lowest income, less than PLN 1500 per person in the household, PLN 100 cover allowance. 100 PLN is not enough for a bag of coal today. Minister! If you want to claim that you have grown up and that you represent the government in this House, then answer the question of what the PiS government is proposing to people who are currently addicted to coal heating. Why don't you talk to Minister Moscow about how to make it easier to bring after-use wood into Poland? Because the deficit is now reaching a few million tons. You haven't done anything about it so you can produce more pellets. You persuaded people to exchange boilers as part of the Clean Air Program. They did it. So? There isn't. Mr Gadowski said: in the e-shop of the Polish Mining Group in the case of 30 items no goods, no goods, no goods. That's your offer right now. PiS is a lack of goods. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What?]] [[Voice from the hall: Go to the store.]] [[What have you done? You should have stopped.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u147	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u148	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! You like to explain your inaction towards rising inflation by the fact that its sources come from outside Poland. I'm not even gonna argue with that. But how we deal with the effects of inflation, how we protect the weakest, is already the responsibility of the government, and the number of the weakest from month to month is increasing. Mr Morawiecki finally, after weeks of wondering how not to expose himself to the banks here, proposed solutions which he wanted to introduce since 2023. Do you know how many months it is for people who can't afford to pay their mortgage payments today, how many months is it for people who have a spectrum of rising rental prices in front of their eyes? The law of the Left, the law of the messenger of Darii Gosek-Popielek, has been on the table for many weeks and should be adopted. But that's not all. We're dealing with rising electricity prices, rising food prices. We all know that. What are you doing to finally protect the weakest ones who have to keep themselves and their families alive? On the table there is a proposal from the Left the second valorization of pensions since September 2022 by 12%. This isn't something we can't afford. We can't afford to accept the poverty of pensioners. What are you doing? Why don't you finally pass this bill? And finally, it's a budget issue. Nurses, babysitters, officials, teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're all waiting for your support. Law of the 20th... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Amazing.]] [[Voice from the room: They have their five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u149	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Inflation is a phenomenon that is detrimental not only to the economy but also primarily to households. It occurs all over the world and requires serious reflection, seeking solutions, not speaking at cabaret level. We know that inflation is happening all over the world. In the Czech Republic in March - 11.9% , Baltic countries: Lithuania - 15.6%, Estonia - 14,8% , Latvia - 11.5%... [[France?]] ...highest inflation in the United Kingdom for 30 years. Everywhere inflation is the result of a geopolitical situation, as well as a pandemic that the world has struggled with for many years. [[We're in Poland. We are in Poland, Member.]] 70% the reasons for inflation are precisely these conditions. The applicant pointed out that one element of the fight against inflation could be the National Reconstruction Plan, which is blocked in Brussels. [[Through the platform.]] [[Voice from the room: Through the PiS.]] Mrs. Member! I have a question about who said these words: We have been scorned in Brussels so that Poland does not give money from KPO. That's what your party friend said. The government takes a lot of action, among others. Minister said: 4 billion PLN of subsidies for fertilisers, reduction of VAT to zero, reduction of CIT, PIT, excise duty. These are all actions aimed at improving the financial situation of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo! So what? What's wrong with you guys?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u151	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard from the Minister: tra ta, tra ta, tra ta, how wonderful and wonderful it is, while we are in shops, while we are using heating... [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] In the meantime, we in our homes are increasingly worried, with increasingly empty wallets. [[Us, us.]] Some of us leave our money at the bank. The Minister says how good it is. Please, look, here's the graph: data of the National Bank of Poland. The only real rate when we gained on a year's tenure was in the days of the Civic Platform and PSL government. [[Applause]] [[May I? Yes, you can.]] See what has been happening since the 2015 elections with information data from NBP. Everything is falling, falling to this abyss from today, a abyss that is catastrophic. What's going on with the banks? What happens to the largest banks in which the State Treasury has a significant share? Why is there no interest on our deposits? Can you imagine that the current account is 0.01%? ? If the bank wants to get someone, then, yes, it gives him 3.5%. , but not the bank in which most of the State Treasury shares. And now what happens? The inflation rate is 11%. And we see more and more that in these banks ours... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Bravo, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, We are at: Current information. It is you, as a representative of the Polish government, who is to answer the dilemmas presented by Members, because these are not our dilemmas, but those are the dilemmas of Poles and Poles who have to deal with it every day. Mr. Kazimierz of Kazimierz Biskupi in Wielkopolska calls and says, "Sir, last year for thirteen I bought a ton of eco peas, this year I will not buy half a ton of eco peas." [[Prosperity for PiS.]] Ask the ministers what to do, who will pay for it. The left presented a proposal for additional valorization. You won't even lean on it because you think they're the ones who have to deal with everything. First you print a list of companies which, due to the aggression of Russia on Ukraine, cannot function in Poland - first - and then it turns out that many inhabitants, including Wielkopolska, Mieścisk and Zagórów, do not have gas. I wanted to ask you today, here and now, Minister, what the government will do to help these residents get gas into their apartments...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u155	You did, you've got bad information, it's out of date.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u156	...and for kindergartens, nursery and, of course, schools. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And companies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u157	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The left side of the room very often criticizes the President of Glapiński, while the President of the National Bank of Poland is a person who... [[She took a million zlotys.]] ... allowed the government to launch shields, both for the COVID pandemic and for inflation. Minister said that the public sector deficit in Poland was at minus 1.9% - that's 1.9%. because the deficit will of course be a minus - and it was the sixth best result in the European Union, significantly above the average. 4.7 is the average for 27 countries, in Poland it is 1.9. The result of the public finance sector in relation to GDP... [[Who wrote this to you?]] ... Of course, it improved by 5 percentage points. In 2021 this was the second result, after Lithuania. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u160	This was the second result after Lithuania. 6.3 - Lithuania, 2.1... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u161	The inflation goes crazy, the interest rates keep going up, the cost that doesn't let go, touches us in stores, in electricity prices, in gas prices and in loan instalments. And all this makes it more and more Poles have problems regulating their debts. What's the government doing? It is best for the government to blame others: the pandemic, the bad European Union, Putin's aggression, many faces have inflation, expensive and high interest rates, but never the PiS and never the government. Because who remembers today about new sugar taxes or trade taxes, about blocking investments in RES, or does he call bad fiscal policies of the government and the currency of Glapiński? Who remembers the St. and socially unfair Energy Law, which does not include the inhabitants of multi-site buildings to which heat is supplied from district heating or local gas boilers? [[Applause]] Two months ago, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, an amendment to the Energy Law Act, which would immediately fix everything you've ruined. She would have repaired if she had been proceded and implemented, but she was stuck in seymour modes. [[Voice from the room: You have to win the election.]] She is stuck, although very much awaited by the residents of the cooperative in Nowa Ruda, in Świebodzice, in Kłodzek, in Nowy Tomyśl, in Poznań, in Szamotuła and in many others. These are thousands of residents who are not protected by the guarantee of their households within the meaning of the current Energy Law. Fix this before the human drama begins, because the law must be equal for everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But to fix... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u162	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club. You're welcome. [[Listen to that voice.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Galloping inflation hits society as a whole, but it has the greatest impact on the groups in the most difficult situation, i.e. on seniors and young people with an unstabilized life and economic situation. As far as seniors are concerned, let me just remind you that about 400,000. Seniors have over 10 billion outstanding liabilities. I don't have to say that inflation will dramatically increase the inability to pay off liabilities. Young people without permanent jobs and housing due to inflation have no chance of improving their situation. Therefore, I ask whether PiS will withdraw its support for Adam Glapiński's biggest public finance pest, who, as President of the NBP, has contributed greatly to the rise in inflation. [[Applause]] Poles will not end the next Glapiński term. Have mercy on us. [[What nonsense!]] What action will the government take to curb the dangerous growth of senior debt, which is inevitable in the face of galloping inflation? What are you gonna do so seniors don't fall into a financial carousel they can't get out of? And what offer do you have for young people to achieve economic and housing security earlier than 100 years from now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u164	Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult to analyze processes if you do not take into account those global ones that are most important. There are multiple allegations against the government that inflationary processes are increasing. But we must not forget the war, the pandemic, all those crises that were completely independent of this government. But there was a time when things weren't so difficult. Tell us what was Donald Tusk's plan to fight inflation and costs in 2011. Why didn't you implement any shielding measures for Poles then? This is where the Minister gave a whole range of reactions. [[Voice from the room: Tell me again about 1992.]] 40% increase in earnings in the budgetary area over 5 years, tax cuts, anti-inflationary shields, now anti-Putin shields. You're saying you don't do anything about credit. I listen to the same information as you. The Prime Minister announces that it has been since 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u166	Thank you, sir. I inform you that Mrs Monica Rosa will be the last Member to ask the question. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Now Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition. You wanted a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u167	High Izbo! Inflation has no negative impact on the wealth of Polish wallets. [[No, how?]] According to this, the President of NBP, Prof. Glapiński, and Prime Minister Morawiecki, spoke quite well. They claimed that wages were rising faster than inflation. The day before yesterday I saw in a store next to a card informing about an anti-inflationary shield, about the VAT reduction that you ordered to place in all stores, a big card with the inscription: A great promotion of the PiS - today cheaper than tomorrow, because there is already an inflationary spiral and it is you that drive it. [[You're driving her. 20% raise.]] Today, prices are rising, wages are rising, but notice that not everywhere. Not everywhere these wages grow, which is why we are asking for budget workers. Increases, by the way, can be financed from inflation tax, Commissioner, because this inflation is increasing tax revenue. VAT for the first 2 months compared to last year is an increase of 33.5% , CIT - 41,5%. VAT was this despite the introduction of the shield, and CIT is the consequence of an increase in the tax burden (the bell). [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[But Morawiecki is the biggest banker in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u168	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Federation, the association of circles and agricultural organizations, and members, i.e. regional voivodship associations of circles and agricultural organizations that bring together agricultural circles and rural hostels, including Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships, receive from farmers, pensioners and renownists who receive benefits from the KRUS a number of critical signals, directly demands that, as announced by government representatives, the value of agricultural pensions in 2022 be at least 7%. The valorisation of agricultural pensions was due to the announcement by the Prime Minister and the other members of the government and was a light in terms of improving the living situation of retired farmers. [[Voice from the hall: We help the weakest, not the bankers.]] Reality turned out to be brutal. Disgruntled farmers say: Our valorization is from 20 to 80 PLN per month. In a collision with two figures of inflation, galloping energy, gas, coal and medicines, these people have no money for a decent life, they feel victims. They say that the cost of living means that the real value of agricultural pensions in 2020 has fallen by 30%. Allow me to hand over my position to the Minister and (The bell) the request of the Federation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u170	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. I would like to inform you that you have negotiated that there will be 45 seconds now and that a few more will fit on this list. [[But the rules say 90 minutes.]] You're welcome. [[The rules are clear that 90 minutes, and we started at an hour. 11.30.]] But it was the former marshal who was delaying. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u171	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! In the first place, I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Leszczyna's statement, which quoted here a fairy tale of La Fontaine about an ant and a horse. You're right to say the fairy tales of morals, but you've got the wrong role because the grasshopper is unfortunately the rule of the Civic Platform. The evidence of this is the destroyed shipyards, the steelworks, the closed mines... [[Deflation is evidence.]] [[We didn't lose money.]] ...plants, factories. Everything was destroyed by you. Not much, you got to the end, in 2015, to the State Forests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about, woman?]] Remember? [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[The voice from the hall: You're full of shit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u172	Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. Is it? There it is. You're welcome. [[Fortunately...]] Ma'am, please step out of the podium. [[Applause]] [[Next person.]] Mrs Czochara, please... [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] Can you hear me? Step out of the podium, please. Member, can you hear me? [[Voice from the O.R.: Please step down.]] Please come down. [[You have not heard the Member.]] You're welcome. [[Give it up for the marshal.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask, when was the last time you went shopping? Have you seen your bill? How much did the price of poultry, eggs, butter, 30-20% sugar, more than 20% gasoline increase? Do you see your apartment bills, your electricity bills? Because people look at these bills every day and think, "What can I do next month? How much higher are the prices going to be? I know you'll drive your limo to the door, they'll pick you up, they'll give you dinner. But people don't have that kind of comfort. They pay their own bills, they pay their own food, they pay their own gas. And they ask, "What's next? What's gonna happen to us? What's next month? Yeah, you guys cut the VAT rate, but it didn't work out much, because those prices went up again. Minister, pensioners, budget, people with disabilities - what are you going to tell them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u174	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. [[45 seconds?]] Yes, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! The government has just sent an update of the convergence programme to Brussels, where it has established an inflation rate of 9.1 this year, and probably only the naive believe that it will not be two figures. I have an investment question in this timeless situation. The international situation is bad, government policy is bad. Everything points out that the dynamics of private investment will fall because it's high loans, prices, labor. I have a question: Will public investment accelerate? Because investment is essential for the future of our country, especially when the government despises European money for the implementation (the bell) of the national plan. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very important question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u176	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The poorest pensioner is Mr. Tusk. He could actually share here with the poorest. [[Morawiecki has 15 million.]] The poorest pensioner is Mr. Tusk. [[Applause]] [[...the premium has.]] But I wanted to ask the Minister to compare the deficit rate of the public finance sector from the days of the Civil Platform and PSL governments and the times of the current government. Which government has consolidated public finances faster? I would also like to say that it is not true that inflation leads to a shortage of workers, because the purchasing power of wages continues to grow. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u178	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation in Poland, let's be clear, is the result of bad government and NBP policies. [[Applause]] And the price for it is paid by all Poles. Glapinflation was already in 2021. - you didn't listen to experts, you didn't listen to opposition, and you put out the gasoline fire. And what does that mean for the economy? The decline in GDP growth. [[It's growing, woman.]] Listen to the Fitch agency, the World Bank, which is forecasting a drop from 4.9 to 3.3. It is a real loss for the Polish economy and for Poles. And for entrepreneurs, what does that mean? The increase in costs (the bell) of wages... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. There isn't? There it is. We will end up with Mr Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u181	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is known that inflation is due to energy sources, to war and the costs involved. But for several years, through benefits to the population on the Polish market, a lot of money came out. I wanted to ask the government: How much does this money flow have in inflation? Because he obviously works on inflation. What percentage of this flow is related to inflation as regards today's situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, what is happening in Poland at the moment, this inflation, is the fault of war abroad, of Putin's wine. And the fact that Putin has such power is the fault of a bad policy of the European Union, Merkel, Tusk and the like. What is happening at this point is that Putin has such great power, that Poles have to pay for everything more expensive - it is the fault of the wrong policy of the European Union. We're changing that. Minister! Answer me the question: What kind of aid goes to Polish agriculture? I'm talking about subsidies for agricultural fertilisers. [[And where can you buy these fertilizers?]] We know that the European Union - even though it is already aware that it is their fault, that it is Tusk's fault, Merkel's fault and the fault of this bad policy - did not want us to pay for Polish agriculture out of our own money, budget, Polish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u184	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate should be called the PIS of the spoils of Poles. You switched the gas spot prices, introduced the gas spot prices. What happened? 600-700% raises. I turn to the honourable states... [[Putin's.]] ...because as the Civic Coalition, we've been fighting for months to make housing co-operatives... I look at Mr Czarnecki, I look at other Members from our district. [[Look at me again, look at me. Look at us.]] ...that all of these people should be protected by the Energy Regulatory Office, because our cooperatives - nearly 8,000. residents - are not covered by this protection. The Civic Platform submitted a bill 2011. This print could save these people. [[Applause]] Take care of it. Get to work, save... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u186	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the left-wing club, as the last.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Several municipalities were cut off from the gas. Some Polish municipalities have reported since yesterday that they were cut off from gas as a result of sanctions imposed on Russian companies. These are among others. cities of Łeba, Town, Bricks. I would like to ask you to know if there are any other municipalities in Poland at risk of cutting off gas, gas supply, and what is the alternative in terms of energy security for these municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u188	Thank you. I now ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. [[Me.]] Ah, Mrs Lubnauer. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, on behalf of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u189	I'd like to start by deceiving some of the things we've heard here. First of all, let's start with Glapiński, [[Mr. Glapiński.]] Let us remind you that President Glapiński is not only responsible for inflation, which was 9.2% in January before the war. So stop throwing everything at Putin. [[Applause]] That's another line. He deceived Poles, those who were wondering whether to borrow. Why? Because in March 2021, in the middle of a pandemic, he said that the rates would not grow until the end of the term of the Monetary Policy Council, and since then they have increased seven times. If Glapiński was a bomb squad, he'd be blown up by now. That's another line. We hear so much about gas, we're addicted to Russia right now because Russia cut us off. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to talk about this, then... You talk about Tusk so many times, and if it wasn't for Tusk, instead of an historic day, we'd have a historic disaster. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's remind the gasport built from 2010 to 2015. Idea? You have different ideas. Let me remind you that you have an idea for a ferry, an idea for a million electric cars, an idea for 100,000. Apartments, but there's nothing out of it. On the other hand, the PO-PSL government simply built a gas-port, building from 2010 to 2015, when the first ship was able to return the gas. Let's notice one more thing. During this time the gas tank capacity increased from 1.7 to 2.6 billion m. That's another line. We offer concrete solutions, three solutions for Poles. The first solution relates to citizens' loans. If they have been deceived by Glapiński, we would like to make it clear: freezing for 2 years of loan instalments according to the 2021 course, from December. [[Applause]] Another solution - bonds to protect the investments of Poles. Let us remember that Poles, many of them, have small savings, several, several tens, several tens of thousands, up to 50,000. We propose that they buy bonds that are interest-bearing in inflation so that they don't lose their money. The bill is already prepared by the Civic Coalition. That's another line. You're saying people don't get worse because inflation doesn't affect it because they get paid. Maybe in the economy, but not in the budgetary sphere. That's why we're proposing 20%. raises for those people who work for you, for teachers, for doctors, for social services, for officials, for people who work in courts and prosecutors, for those who build the state. These are concrete proposals from the Civic Coalition. But there's one more thing I wanted to notice. When we listen to PiS politicians, it seems like everything's great. The yeast doesn't affect their pockets. Well, when you drive a government limousine, you don't notice that at present the price of diesel is PLN 7,21 per litre. [[Applause]] Every other person notices that. Here Mr. Telus spoke a lot about fertilisers. Yeah, the price of the saltpeter went up from 1.2 to 6,000. But let's notice one thing. If you are talking about delaying payments from the European Union concerning additives for fertilisers, remember the conversation between Wojciechowski and Kowalczyk, who submitted the application and that it was incorrect. That's the reason why it was so late to put in the fertilizer. That's another line. Notice that we had this moment where PiS tried to buy as many banks as possible. He was explaining to the banks that money has nationality. Nearly 50% of the bank's capital is state capital, and we hear Matthew Morawiecki, who goes out and says: I will appeal to the bank presidents to raise the interest rate on deposits. [[Yeah, yeah.]] These are the presidents you appointed there. These are the people. People get less than 1% on average. The interest rates on deposits and, at the same time, banks have record profits. And you do nothing and promise to do anything in 2023. You can't wait, loan owners can't stand it, and people who have savings can see how they see these savings melting in their eyes. Another question - KPO. We have a counter-edance on the justice committee between Solidarna Polska and PiS, I don't know... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u190	Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that the phobia of the opposition concerning President Glapiński is intriguing. [[There's no phobia.]] On the other hand, if you look at the comparison of your nominees to NBP and the nominates of Law and Justice, it is becoming more and more explainable. I have already told you about President Belka as the president of helplessness, who did absolutely nothing during the outbreak of the crisis in 2011. There was no shielding programme for entrepreneurs, no support for public policies at the time of a very serious crisis. President Glapiński compared to President Belka is one of the best presidents in NBP history. [[We've got the highest inflation.]] Thanks to Mr. President Belka... Today we can talk about very low unemployment. If President Belka were still in office today, I am fully convinced that unemployment would reach 20% and that public debt would be one of the worst in the European Union and not the best, as it is now. [[Voice from the room: After all, unemployment fell behind the Platforms.]] [[Voice from the room: Please tell the truth.]] Really be ashamed of this choice in 2010. Shame on the president of Belka, really. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Today, in this House, you say, Mrs Janyska, that unemployment is not an indication of a good economic policy. I'm not surprised that you say that, since in February 2013, in the days of Donald Tusk's government, unemployment was 14.4%. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[How much for Kaczynski?]] Since you had a record-breaking unemployment rate for the 21st century, yes, say that unemployment is no indication of a good economic situation. Poles know what they're doing anyway. [[Applause]] PSL said today that if tax cuts do not result in an immediate reduction in inflation, this is not a good solution. Again, it is difficult to be surprised when the PO-PSL government raised the VAT rate by 1 percentage point during the recent debt crisis in 2011. For you, the economic prescription for inflation and the crisis is the VAT increase. For us, the recipe is PIT reductions, VAT reductions and CIT reductions. [[And a mess.]] This is a good response to inflation without a radical increase in the deficit of the public finance sector. A good balanced policy - this is the best recipe for the current difficult economic situation, from which there is no need to run away. You talk a lot about banks, about the wrong credit policy. Yeah, that's a lot of right. That is why on Monday we announced a program aimed at helping Polish borrowers. Today you are talking about the fact that banks are not regulated. I would like to remind you that when the banking tax was voted on in 2016, the Civic Platform was against this tax. It was you who were against the tax, which was intended to reduce the excessive profits of the banks. I looked at this vote by name. Mrs Leszczyna - against, Mrs Skowrońska - against. So who's the pro-bank party here? Who cares that banks' profits are not taxed? The Civic Platform. [[And 200 million for advertising.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We really have a difficult economic situation. We have an even more difficult geopolitical situation. I am fully aware that the public feels the effects of Putinflation, that there is a need for a lot of international procedures, including with regard to helping Ukrainian citizens. We still have not received such assistance from the European Commission. We will implement social programmes aimed at protecting the Polish society, but I encourage the Civic Platform: stop being a party Nord Stream 2, help us to raise funds from the European Union, using our supposedly perfect relations with Brussels. We certainly will not turn back from helping Polish society. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Minister, you didn't answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u192	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. Let us welcome the young people from Rypin, who are listening to our turbulent discussions from the gallery. [[Applause]] I'm declaring a two-minute recess before we vote... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm declaring a little longer recess, about 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 47 hours 13 min 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u193	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning I warmly welcome a group of students from the Pedagogical University in Krakow. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act: - agreements on international transport of perishable foodstuffs and on special means of transport for such carriages, drawn up in Geneva on 1 September 1970, - Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the mutual protection of classified information, drawn up in Athens on 13 September 2021. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted reports requesting that the Prime Minister's notifications be accepted without reservation. The Commission's reports are in prints 2195 and 2196 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying these documents. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and the Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs, - the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, - on the amendment of the Act - Teacher's Charter, - on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act, - to amend certain laws in relation to the development of public ICT systems. I hope your students are quieter in class than here in the Seym. Yes, they have a comparative scale, ladies and gentlemen. The reports are 2199, 2179, 2202, 2209 and 2192 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 2211. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We have formal requests. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for a break and bringing the Minister of Health here to translate. Ladies and gentlemen! In January 2021, Prime Minister Morawiecki purchased 85 million doses of the vaccine against COVID-19. It was already known that they would not be fully used, but the Ministry ordered another 120 million doses of vaccine. It gives us more than five vaccines per citizen. Today, the Minister of Health is trying to break these contracts by saying there's a war in Ukraine. Meanwhile, we have calculations that say that it will be tossed into a basket of 10, maybe 12 billion PLN. The Confederation has filed a notice of suspected crime by Minister Niedzielski. This should be settled, this should end with an accusation, a judgment and a seat of Minister Niedzielski. I put this on the hands of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński - he will tell everyone who needs it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u195	Mr President, you can get a cat out of a tree, not a minister to the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So I suggest you use a slightly different... [[You're gonna give him a black dot for his behavior.]] Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're so loud, I can't hear my own voice, and I'm sure your voice doesn't get through to me. [[You're not missing anything.]] I think so, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u196	Thank you very much, Marshal. As a result of the dylanist way of introducing sanctions in many municipalities today, there was no gas. Daycares, kindergartens, public institutions have been without hot water, without heating. That is why I would like to make a formal motion to adjourn, to convene the Seniors' Convention and to allow Prime Minister Sasin to explain himself to the situation that arose because yesterday the Prime Minister deserted from the debate on energy security. [[Don't show me.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The United Right made Poland dependent on Russian coal, Russian oil. The United Right has destroyed the development of renewable energy sources - and those from the wind - and those from the sun. Today, you can see how Poles lose in your inadequacies. Prime Minister Sasin! Explain yourself, please. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Let's do it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u197	No, no, no. No, sir. Please come down. No. [[Voice from the room: One second.]] Mr President, the Senior Convention and the Sejm Bureau have just been held. Your representative has been and has not reported anything. Therefore, I will not call again the Senior Convention. [[They're still freezing.]] Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please. [[Scandal. I was the first to stand here and volunteer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is time to end this festival of hypocrisy and hypocrisy by PSL and Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Władysław, yesterday you're asking us to apologize to Waldemar Pawlak, Chairman of the PSL General Council. For what? For delaying the gasport for four years for stopping Baltic Pipe for cutting off billions of Gazprom's zlotys for doing progazprom politics? Shame! Don't lie to me like Donald Tusk, 'cause in a minute you're gonna be telling me that this is your work, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to request a recess in the meeting and the inclusion on the agenda of information by the Minister of Education, Przemysław Czarnek, on the actual salaries of teachers and educational staff. What the minister says in the media reminds me of stories from moss and ferns. Teacher salaries are so low that every year more and more teachers are quitting their job. The Left wants to change that, which is why we tabled an amendment on 20 percent increases for teachers in March. The law and justice here in the Sejm did not accept this amendment, but it was accepted by the Senate, and today in the voting block there will be a vote on 20% increases for teachers. The High House gets a second chance to raise teachers' wages as they need it and as they deserve it. I appeal to the Members of the Law and Justice: do not waste this opportunity. And I ask the Marshal to introduce the information of the Minister of Education before the voting block, because the High House deserves reliable information about teachers' wages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u201	Madam President, we have a long time since been ordered. If you haven't noticed, I would remind you that we're already on the agenda. [[You have to comment on everyone.]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! We discussed gas, but you forgot to seriously discuss with anti-patriots from your government, from Solidarna Polska, about the Supreme Court. 250 billion PLN is the money which today should build in Poland heat pumps, biogas plants, photovoltaic installations. This is what Poles need today more than ever, and you continue to submit to the blackmail of the antipatriots of the United Right. This is the Polish state right to run this money in Poland as soon as possible, so eliminate this Disciplinar Chamber and you need to mobilise European funds for Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u203	Minister Wójcik has asked for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a request for your marshal to address a request to the Board of Ethics. It can't be that in this room there are such expressions as the anti-patriots. Are you a patriot? You're not a patriot! [[Voice from the hall: Do not be afraid of the truth.]] Ma'am, you'd be a patriot if the constitution were higher than Community law, but it's exactly the opposite for you. Community law is more important than the Constitution and the Sovereign. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You don't show your fingers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u205	Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I would like to...]] No. [[Voice from the room: Fifth column.]] No, my fellow Member, please return to your seat. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2191. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2191 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna talk a little slower at first, because I know you need to move faster. Okay, I'll wait a minute. 450 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2188. We're voting. Who's in favour of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2168-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets received a motion from the Left Club to reject the project and two amendments from the Left Club. The first amendment was withdrawn by the club, while the second and the rejection request were not accepted by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u207	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2168. The Commission sets out in its additional report a proposal to reject the draft law and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. If you are in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 204 - for, against - 231, 16 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2024. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Whoever is in favour of the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 205 - for, 230 - against, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. If you are in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2168, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 - for, 205 - against, abstained 15. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2197-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. On yesterday's day, both committees re-examined the issue of amendments. The Administrative Commission and the Finance Committee are proposing, High Sejm, to reject two amendments from the five amendments tabled, i.e. Amendments 1 and 2 and three amendments are accepted, i.e. Amendments 3, 4 and 5, subject to the joint vote on amendments 3, 4 and 5. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u209	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2197. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 221 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[I'm sorry, why aren't there any questions for the amendment? Does the Seym still work in the covid system, Your Marshal?]] We are voting on the third amendment with which Amendments 4 and 5 are combined. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3, 4 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 405 - for, 38 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 2197, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 430 for, 2 against, 17 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law on the Copernicus Academy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2200-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth received a proposal from the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club and the PPS Circle to reject the draft law on the Copernican Academy. Poland 2050 also received an amendment from the Parliamentary Circle. The motion for rejection was not supported by the committee and the amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u211	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2200. The Commission also puts forward in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. If you are in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 - for, 231 - against, abstained - 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Chapter 8 of the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Whoever is in favour of the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2200 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the Copernican Academy. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2194-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! An additional meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee was held today to consider six amendments tabled at second reading to the Government's draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws, print No 2134. In the vote, the amendments were not accepted by the committee. As regards Amendments 1, 3 and 5, 14 votes were against, 12 against, in the case of Amendments 2 and 6. 15 votes against, 11 against, 14 against, 10 against, and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u213	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2194. [[Marshal, can I ask you a question?]] The Commission also presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 6 and amendments from 1 to 5 were submitted to Article. 1 containing amendments to the Foreign Service Act. [[Why can't you ask a question, Marshal? Member reporting. Question.]] In the 1st Amendment, the applicant proposes... [[Voice from the room: The question is.]] ...to add Article in the amended act. 4a and Article 4a 4b. Amendments 3 and 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 1 and 6. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 3 and 5? [[The Member wants to ask a question.]] Don't yell. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Please follow the rules of procedure.]] In accordance with the rules of procedure, sir. [[Covid's been called off by decree.]] Look at the rules. It's by the book. 451 Members voted. 221 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 1st minority application, applicants propose to add Article in the amended act. 4a. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 221 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the second minority proposal. Who is in favour of the second minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 220 for, 228 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 2nd Amendment, with which Amendment 6 is linked. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 3 and 7. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 2 and 6? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 210 - for, 241 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the third minority proposal. Who is in favour of the third minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 209 - for, 239 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. [[And what is the reason why there are no questions now? They always have been.]] We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 4th minority proposal. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 4th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 - for, 240 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 5th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 5th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The question is.]] 448 Members voted. 180 for, 227 against, 41 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 6th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 6th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[As part of the compromise, at least a question before the vote on the entire bill, your marshal.]] 450 Members voted. 220 for, 230 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 7th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 7th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 242 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. [[How about a question now, Marshal?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2194 will want to raise your hand and press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 229 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the act on tax on goods and services. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer the draft law contained in print No 2182 to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law to the National Defence Commission in addition. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the request for further referral. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer the draft law contained in print 2182 to the National Defence Committee will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 42 for, 409 against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. The 95 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 10 May 2022. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Principles for the Implementation of European Activities in the Financial Perspective 2021-2027 (Prints 2175 and 2179). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Commission: to the European Union and to the Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the rules for the implementation of financial tasks from European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. The joint committees met on 26 April and examined the 50 amendments made by the Senate. The joint committees recommend accepting amendments: 10, 30, 45, on which we will vote together and the remaining amendments reject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u215	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We are voting on the 1st amendment, with amendments from 2 to 4, 7, 9, 11, 12, 16, 21st to 29th, 40th, 41st and 43. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Whoever opposes the amendments: from 1 to 4, 7, 9, 11, 12, 16, 21 to 29, 40, 41 and 43, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 - for, 220 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 247 - for, 204 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's against the sixth amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 10th amendment with which amendments 30 and 45 are combined. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who's against Amendments 10, 30 and 45? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against -451, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendments of the Senate by a majority. We are voting on the 13th amendment, with amendments 14, 18 and 19. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 13, 14, 18 and 19? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 15th amendment with which Amendment 17. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 15 and 17? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 20th amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 31, with which Amendment 33. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting amendments 31st and 33rd? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 239 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 32nd amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 32nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 34th amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 34th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 230 for, 219 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 35th amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 35th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 36th amendment with amendments 38, 44, 46 and 49. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 36, 38, 44, 46 and 49? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 229 - for, 208 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 37th amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 37th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, 210 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 39th amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 39th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 209 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 42nd Senate Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 42nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 228-- for, 221-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 47th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 47th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 207 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 48, with which Amendment 50 is linked. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who's against Amendments 48 and 50? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. At this end, we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Formal conclusion. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Formal request for a recess and rethinking of the decision by the government and members of the PiS. Instead of building a teacher's prestige, you ignore and degrade this profession. [[Applause]] You're pretending to care about good education, and you're really bringing a teacher's salary to a minimum salary. In 2021 inflation was 8.6%. On the other hand, what was the increase for teachers? 0%. This year's inflation is 11%. How much is the teacher's raise? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Actually, it's not even valorization - 4.4%. [[3.8% for Platforms.]] You're demoting a teacher's profession. [[Applause]] You are demoting the most important people in Poland who are responsible for the education of our children. Please... [[Game in the O.R.]] You're demoting your profession... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u217	Thank you very much, Member. A formal request has been submitted for a break related to this point. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Teacher's Charter (Prints 2172 and 2202). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Teacher Charter, print No. 2172. At its meeting on 27 April 2022, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered two amendments tabled by the Senate and requested that they be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u219	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendment 2 is combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Local Government Act (Prints 2174 and 2209). I ask Mr Jack Protas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy discussed the Senate resolution in which the Senate proposes an amendment to the law amending the Municipal Government Act. The Commission recommended almost unanimously, with one abstention, the adoption of this amendment, i.e. voting against rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 1a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. If you are against the amendment, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 4 - for, against -441, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the Municipal Government Act. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the Amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs (Prints No. 2176 and 2199). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the day of yesterday, the Commissions: Infrastructure and Local Government and Regional Policy discussed the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs. The Senate has made three amendments to this bill. They should be voted on together, because they result in, how to say it... The first amendment is the removal of Article. 2 and the other two are legislative consequences. The joint committees have decided to recommend that the High House reject all three amendments voted jointly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u223	Thank you. It will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendments 2 and 3 are combined. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 2 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems (prints Nos 2173 and 2192). I ask Mr Robert Gontar to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u224	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems, print No 2173. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal on 13 April 2022 sent this resolution to the joint committees. On 27 April this year, the Commission recommended adopting six amendments and rejecting two. At the same time, amendments 4 and 5 should be voted together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u225	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We are voting on the third amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 228 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 4, with which Amendment 5 is linked. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 4 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's against the sixth amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's in favour of rejecting the 7th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 12 for, against - 438, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018 to agree by the Sejm to be held liable for a criminal offence by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the proposal for consent to the criminal liability of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018 to consent by the Sejm to the criminal liability of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus for the act set out in this request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 232, against - 214, holding down 2. By an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution authorising the criminal liability of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus for the act specified in the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 6 December 2018. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Commission on the application by Marek Palarczyk, private prosecutor, submitted by Paweł Berg and Mariusz Mazurka of 13 November 2018, supplemented on 21 January 2019, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the application of the Private Prosecutor Mark Palarczyk submitted by the Agents Paweł Berg and Mariusz Mazurka of 13 November 2018, supplemented on 21 January 2019, to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the act specified in this request, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, abstained 1. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] By an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution approving the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Marek Palarczyk submitted by the attorneys... [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. ... Paweł Berg and Mariusz Mazurka of 13 November 2018, supplemented on 21 January 2019. I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greeni submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the merger of PKN Orlen SA with Lotos SA Group and the procedure for the disposal of part of Lotos SA Group's assets, including parts of the refinery in Gdańsk and fuel stations, foreign entities. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2211). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Do any of you wish to speak on this matter? I can't see. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 2211 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 422 - for, 5 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That concludes the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 52 hours 13 min 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u226	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors (print No 2183). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wosi to present the reasons for the bill. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the fruit of several years of work of the Ministry of Justice and the expert team under the direction of Professor Henryk Haak, whom I also thank for this hard work. This is a reform project related to the rehabilitation of minors, reform of the entire system of rehabilitation of minors. It is a comprehensive law, a comprehensive reform in both procedural and institutional terms. It is a very extensive law, in fact, about the size of codes, because it contains more than 400 articles. At a certain stage of the work, there were even considerations as to whether a certain codec tradition should be restored from 1932 and whether the current juvenile law is simply an obsolete act from 4 decades ago, a law which was introduced during the time of martial law and was in line with the needs of that period. Of course, it has been revised during these 40 years, while a whole range of legal institutions can already be considered obsolete. As part of this comprehensive reform, we propose a whole range of changes and new institutions. This is primarily to take account of the new social reality and the change in the nature of juvenile offences. Data clearly indicate that there is a brutalisation of these acts, that there are more sexual acts, as well as acts related to drug crime. In the draft law, we want to introduce more effective measures for the impact and support of the rehabilitation process for minors, which is appropriate above all to the degree of their demoralisation. It can be said that the project itself introduces such a clear philosophy of action, namely it stops the state machine at the right level against the slightest transgressions. That's the right level for the principal of the school, the police. You don't have to run the whole forensic machine. At the same time, the project introduces an effective rehabilitation of those who committed the most serious criminal offences. As part of the bill, the regulations that have not lost their validity are incorporated from the Juvenile Procedure Act. The bill strengthens the procedural guarantees of minors as well as executes judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, especially in the case of Grabowski against Poland. Within the first block, i.e. reactions to minors who commit the most serious criminal acts, the new institutions that are being introduced are, above all, mandatory inclusion in the correctional facility, the need to place minors who have committed the most serious crimes, as defined in Article. 10 § 2 The Penal Code, which is the so-called "Criminal Code." relative obligation. At present, the system operates in such a way that, in any case, the court considers the possibilities from the softest to the most serious measure, while in the case of these most brutal crimes, we change the philosophy of action, namely the court will first consider the juvie, and only when it decides on the corrective measure and sees that other measures can be more effective, then it takes such a decision and must justify it. The project proposes two institutions related to these most brutal juvenile offences, two new institutions, i.e. the possibility of threatening the minor to apply a corrective measure up to the age of 24 or immediately extending the implementation of the corrective measure up to the age of 24. This occurs in particularly justified cases where there is a very high degree of corruption, a kind of criminal act, and the manner and circumstances of committing it. We introduce the possibility for a family court to rule on the obligation of a minor to be released from correction facilities for specific proceedings or on the supervision of a probation officer. It's a novelty, it's not in the current system. The point is that, when a minor is released from a correctional facility most often at the age of 21 or faster, if someone is released from the correction facility sooner, the state actually loses any knowledge of such a minor, and perhaps it is that he should continue therapy or the curator should continue to support him if this rehabilitation process in the establishment was not going on as it should have been. The Act introduces a new educational measure. At the moment, there are a dozen educational measures and a correctional measure. As part of the comprehensive project submitted, there will be 11 educational measures and 12 corrective measures. This new educational measure, i.e. the placement in the district educational centre, has been advocated for years by professionals, by the community of family judges, also by specialists involved in rehabilitation, working with minors, because practice shows that in this current catalog there is no educational remedy that would be appropriate for minors who commit criminal acts, but the degree of their demoralization does not support the use of a correctional measure or does not give rise to the inclusion in the correctional facility. First of all, the aim was to improve the effectiveness of rehabilitation in youth centres themselves. It can be said that MOWs, as the most serious educational measure, have turned into places where minors are directed to one centre, who for some reason, after committing a criminal offence, have not been sent to a correctional facility, e.g. After the murder, but at the same time in the same MOW, there are children depraved, even though some notorious dwarfs are staying in the same center, which obviously makes it difficult to rehabilitate one and the other, so the more serious one can be said of another security, the educational measure is necessary. The fact that the youth educational centers were not doing so well is evidenced by the tragic events in Lańcut, Wałbrzych in 2020, the murder of two teenagers, and other minor cases that are there every day, need not be mentioned. The special distress, the plague in MOWs, is, of course, the escapes that occur on a global scale, in thousands. So the new measure is also intended to address this issue, it is intended to be an instrument that will make it possible for minors who have committed a criminal act to be placed in the district educational centre, but who have not been sent to a correctional institution, but also those who are staying in the educational centre, but for some reason this rehabilitation is ineffective there. Therefore, they will be able to be placed in this district educational centre. Under the Act there is a whole package related to protection for the youngest. First of all, we define the lower age limit for the demoralization and commissioning of this judicial machine, at the level of 10 years, it is the responsibility of minors for demoralization. At the moment, there is no lower age limit in terms of responsibility, so it has happened that 6-, 7-year-old children have been brought to justice and, after all, to such children who are not aware have no sense of responsibility for their actions, the family code is appropriate and caring. The measures are provided for parents, not minors, as to whether there is a minor-led procedure. We are introducing a new institution, a new institution in the legal system, namely the application to minors by the school head or by executives, the police above all, of educational influence. With these measures, it will not be necessary to notify the family court of these various minor cases. It's about the principal of the school, instead of bringing the case to court, when it goes on, there's a whole trial, he could have ordered it right away, for example. rake leaves in the autumn or wash the corridor, or apply other possibilities which the law provides for precisely for those directors who can use these legal tools provided for by the law on a daily basis. Finally, it is also possible to oblige parents or underage carers to cooperate in the youth center of sociotherapy. Another important amendment under the Act is the introduction of homes for mother and child. At the moment, there is no legal basis for having minors with their child in MOWs or maybe in educational centres or in correction facilities, if they do not threaten the child in any way. This is more stringent than in the case of prisons, where women who are deprived of freedom take direct care of this child until the third year of age of the child, if, of course, safety concerns are involved. So we also introduce the possibility of running such homes for mothers and children for minors who gave birth as part of the rehabilitation system of minors, under the care of the state. We are also introducing, and this is an important change, the Juvenile Medication Commission. At the moment, courts may decide whether or not to oblige a minor to take various therapies and medical measures, but after the decision of such a medical remedy, the minor's family may sometimes be left alone in this case, i.e. the court is not in a position to find a centre which executes the judgment of the court. There'll be full coordination right now. The Commission led by the Minister of Health, appointed by the Minister of Health, will coordinate the placement of minors in those places where they require treatment. Finally, we have a whole package of legal guarantees for minors in the context of the proceedings. The aim is to extend the catalogue of indications regarding the appointment of a public defender in the field of compulsory defence. It's going to be a bigger shot than it is now. We also have here an instruction on the right of defence, which at the moment does not exist, the mandatory involvement of the defender, the prosecutor in the most serious cases carried out in the context of proceedings under the bill submitted, the project submitted, the whole package related to the possibility of casatorial actions, i.e. the possibility of filing a complaint for detention, for personal inspection, also for the use of means of direct coercion, and a comprehensive definition of the rules for carrying out personal checks, where at the moment these rules are not recognised, and certainly not at the statutory level. Finally, the whole package related to the application procedure, the extension of provisional measures. This is the implementation of Grabowski's ruling against Poland, i.e. the definition of general conditions for interim measures. It is about shelters for minors, introducing a family court order for a period of not more than 3 months. This period of stay shall be fixed and this shall also be subject to appeal. It can be said that the last new institution to be set up under this law is a committee for the directing of minors to a youth educational centre in order to improve coordination, because this coordination is, of course, at the level of the correction facilities for which the Minister of Justice is responsible at the moment. The Commission is directing the most suitable centre in this case to the most effective rehabilitation process. In contrast, youth educational centers are often run by local authorities, but supervised by the curatoria, and the head of the ORE is run by the Minister of National Education, which is why there is a great deal of confusion about this and hence the whole package of changes ordering these issues. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed project will certainly improve the process of rehabilitation of minors. It is a very good bill drawn up by a group of experts who worked for a few years, a few years on this deep, comprehensive reform. From the perspective of the Ministry of Justice, procedural issues are very important, because it is, it is possible to say, precisely such a juvenile code related to judicial procedures, but also political, organisational issues which define how to implement corrective measures, how to implement educational measures, and order the whole system, primarily strengthen the effectiveness of the state towards the most demoralized minors. Always minors have no criminal responsibility and this is extremely important, it is the state that is trying to do so. If other actions have failed before, if the family has failed or different care institutions, the state takes on the responsibility of bringing young, angry people straight. In this way, the whole package of effective tools will certainly improve the level of rehabilitation for which the State is responsible. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club on the Law and Justice of the High House will be presented by Mr Kurzepa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government bill on support and rehabilitation of minors. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would first like to draw attention to the following issues. Firstly, a procedated government draft law from the document, print No. 2138 is an essential modern-day legislative proposal relating to the issue of minors who infringe criminal law or violate other normative rules describing Community and individual life. It has been almost 40 years since the Juvenile Procedure Act was passed. We are talking about the Law of 26 October 1982 on juvenile proceedings. While an attempt was made in 2013 to amend this law, many issues still required legal regulation or clarification, which was repeatedly advocated by practitioners. This proposal, Minister, your project is trying to make amends. Indeed, the long-term work under your direction, Minister, in the Ministry of Justice, brings in the guesthouse a draft law which organizes and systematizes the matter of juvenile cases, refers to the constitutional and international standards in force in Poland, brings to the bill's rank certain solutions which have so far been regulated in lower-rank legal acts. In addition, it introduces a number of new, challenging proposals and impacts to strengthen their efficiency. Secondly, the substance of this solution is already indicated in the title itself: the act on support and rehabilitation of minors. It includes in the holistic perspective a person who is in the process of becoming in different dimensions of development and experiencing sometimes undesirable and reprehensible episodes related to violations of criminal or social standards, which necessarily requires response and attempts to correct, repair. It therefore contains provisions of both procedural and material and implementing nature, which are synergistic and complementary to each other. The whole is embedded in the belief that there is an effective power of intelligent support in order to shape or rebuild the desirable and socially acceptable attitudes of minors. In the design of the authors, the project has the advantage of the possibility of individualized paths of support, correction, rehabilitation, which results from a wide range of methods of impact at different stages of the process of support and rehabilitation. Thirdly, the extensive, detailed matter of the bill brings a new breath in the process of dealing with minors as a whole. E.g. specify the lower age threshold for an individual to whom corruption proceedings may be initiated - the Minister indicated in his submission the age of 10 years. This also redirects the interest of the perpetrator when adverse deviant-pathological signals are intensified in younger children towards legal guardians or parents. In the case of criminal acts, legislators leave the lower limit of underage age 13 years. Fourthly, solutions were presented, including: strengthen the role of the school and the head of the institution, which may, in duly justified cases, benefit from the proposed catalogue of educational measures without the need to notify the family court or the police of the manifestation of corruption or criminal offences by minors, in addition to criminal offences which are exhaustive in the form of criminal offences pursued by the public office or fiscal offence. Such action shall be conditional upon the Director's acceptance of this solution by parents or legal guardians and minors themselves. The repertoire of possible educational measures includes instruction, oral or written warning, apology to the victim, restoration of the previous condition and the execution of specific work for the school. At the same time, it is valuable to draw attention to the possibility of mobilising parents and guardians in their educational and caring activities through the possibility of punishing them in the event of a breach of the obligations imposed by the court. Another desirable proposal is the whole package of solutions for exploratory behaviour, including. concerning the parties to proceedings and the victim, including their rights and obligations in those proceedings. The provisions on detention and provisional measures have been laid down and the provisions on the conduct of the primary and the appeal proceedings have been clarified, which logically introduces us to the enforcement procedure, making it equivalent in the provisions of this law to the exploratory procedure. These rules fully and completely underline the importance of this procedure in the work of the family court and its greater codification than before. Among the many advantages of the proposals contained in the Proceded Act are those related to the rights and obligations of minors placed in MOWs, district educational centres - a new institution - correction facilities and shelters for minors and the limitation of these rights. Among them were solutions which were contested by the National Prevention Mechanism and refer to, for example, to respect the obligation of minors, among others. undergo tests for the presence of psychoactive substances in the body, subject to curative or personal inspection in the cases specified in the proposed act. Ww. issues involve due diligence in respect of the provisions of the Constitution, whether in relation to the Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - the right to immunity and personal freedom - whether it is Article. 47 constitutions - the right to privacy. An important novelty in the proposed law is the regulation of the area related to the use in the previously mentioned monitoring facilities. Here again, it is important to be sensitive to the constitutional law on the protection of private life. This solution therefore takes into account the regulatory regime in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. There are far more threads and matters that the bill covers. In other words, it is a legal colubrin, very necessary - it sets out the desirable directions for the development of mechanisms to support the development of the minor and his rehabilitation based on respect and respect for the constitutional rights of the subject and strengthens the effectiveness of the team of institutions of justice, social order and the process of educational influence, including family, on the pupil. We recommend that the proposed law be adopted for further legislative work. And personally, Minister, congratulations on this job and this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u230	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Magdalena Filiks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I will present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors. Let me start by saying that this is a really extensive project, which, together with the justification, has almost 1000 pages, and that it will go to first reading, we actually learned on Tuesday. So I would call for such extensive projects to be approached more prudently and to let them know in advance so that it really is a reliable analysis and a good job. The bill is to replace the existing rules adopted more than 40 years ago. Minors due to their age, lack of experience or pathological family environment are particularly vulnerable to various types of abuse. It is therefore important to create an appropriate legal framework that respects their respective rights and strengthens their protection. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that the handling of juvenile cases should not be restrictive, but focus primarily on upbringing. Criminal policy against minors does not provide any positive solutions. In the case of minors, it is important to move away from repressive solutions to care solutions. The controlling-restrictive climate is the least beneficial for the process of rehabilitation of minors, and I have the impression that this project is going a little bit in this direction. It should be borne in mind that an important element of effective rehabilitation is the creation of solutions that will eliminate not only the effects but also the causes of pathological behaviour. Effective mechanisms must be created, allowing for simultaneous impact and on minors, and on the family environment, because even if the minor is successfully rehabilitated and he returns to the family environment affected by the same problems that caused his demoralization, then there are great opportunities for a renewed conflict between minors and the law. Furthermore, the issue of support and assistance for former school pupils in the process of their return to normal life is very important. This return is difficult and without proper support, it is likely that such a child will again be in conflict with the law. These are issues where regulation would improve the effectiveness of the impact on minors. High Izbo! The processed project introduces many new solutions. Among the important ones, as has already been said here, we can include changes, for example. the establishment of a lower age limit of 10 years from which minors will be able to respond in cases of demoralisation. The projector introduces a new educational measure in the form of placing a minor in a district educational centre. There will be room for young people who do not yet show a high degree of demoralization. In addition, the project provides for the possibility for the school principal to impose certain obligations on a minor who shows signs of depravity at the school or who has committed a criminal offence. A novelty in the project is the possibility of deciding to carry out a corrective measure up to the age of 24, i.e. we may have a situation when a person who has completed 13. One year old and committed a certain act, spent 11 years in an establishment. Some experts point out that there is a very high risk of secondary demoralization after such a long period of stay at the plant. It is also highly likely that such a person will not be able to function effectively in society in accordance with its standards and will most likely return to the criminal path. Unacceptable are proposals that offer the possibility of preventive use of handcuffs by district staff of educational centres, establishments or shelters. The Ombudsman pointed out that the use of handcuffs is not appropriate in the case of minors who are under the care of underage staff due to: firstly, their stigmatising nature, secondly, the different objectives of juvenile facilities in relation to prisons and arrests, and thirdly, the higher risk in the case of tight fastening used during transport. In addition, there are fears that the preventive application of a direct coercion measure should not become a rule. Another issue is the use of a safety straitjacket, a restraint belt, a safety helmet. It seems that these measures should also not be applied in juvenile facilities because of their oppressive, stigmatizing and degrading nature. As experts point out, the use of this measure constitutes a disproportionate use of force. The possibility of placing a minor in the adaptation chamber is a great concern. There is a great deal of room for abuse here and this poses a direct risk of using the adaptation chamber as an informal disciplinary measure resulting in isolation. We must remember that any form of isolation of minors is a measure that has a negative impact on the physical and mental state of the child. There are a lot of records here that raise doubts, which does not change the fact that these are very necessary solutions that need to be worked out reliably. That is why we are in favour of directing the project to further work. Of course, our support or not for the project is linked to the course of this work. I will skip this today, but in the future I would also like to refer to what is completely unnecessary in my view in this project. These are the recitals. It's about mother, father, and Christian values. I don't think that's what this project is about at all, but I won't be paying attention to it today either. On behalf of the club, I would like to ask your marshal to direct this project to further work in the Commission: Education, Science and Youth, Social Policy and Family Policy... [[Voice from the room: Speak to the microphone.]] [[Voice from the room: Well, education also.]] Excuse me. The last card is for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u232	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u233	This is for you. You're welcome, Marshal. ...where I think the proposal should go first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u234	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Kotula will present the position of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You'll appreciate trying to read the document. A lot of different... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Right? [[The voice from the room: How nice.]] Of course I do. This project is needed, long-awaited. We don't say no. And as my colleague said, we are not going to present any positions today, we are going to submit a proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs as well. You are here today, too, from this committee. I think the project certainly deserves to be worked on. Okay, so where do we start? Poland has been proud for years that it has actually brought the world, not only Poland, the rights of the child. And the guiding thought has always been that children are not subject to criminal liability, are not included in the Penal Code, and that is why there is still a law on juvenile proceedings. I agree that it is very archaic, and I agree that changes are needed. Reality has chased us away a long time ago, and I'm saying this as a teacher with 25 years of experience. The most important thing is the child's welfare, the preservation of his right to privacy, autonomy, the preservation of as many of his fundamental rights as possible. Even if a minor conflicts with the law, he cannot, of course, be treated as a criminal, he cannot be treated as a criminal. We know that Poland was the initiator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and submitted its first draft to the UN Human Rights Committee, and the provisions contained in the Convention on the Rights of the Child are the basis, the canon of ethical principles and standards of international conduct towards children. The child should be brought up peacefully in the family, but we know that the family is not always a safe place. The most important thing is definitely the welfare of the child, not only the welfare of the child in the family, because we know that unfortunately this family can also be a threat, it can also, unfortunately, be a corrupting environment. In an ideal world, every child would have a parent or parents, would have a worthy existence, a sense of security, respect for their rights as an autonomous entity, and then perhaps the problem of demoralization, entering the path of collision with the law would be a marginal problem, but unfortunately such an ideal world simply does not exist. As a result, by amending the provisions on the rehabilitation of minors and remembering that the existing ones are actually archaic, it is worth creating a good, efficient, effective, timely system. This last sentence is not in my opinion, it is a quote from the statements of the court curators, because I tried to consult all interested parties to a minimum. The consensus is that the most important thing is not to fire a child with a bath and take good and long-awaited solutions, and these are certainly in this bill. However, we have different doubts about many solutions. Some of them seem outrageous to us and we will oppose them. All measures applied, the amendments proposed in this Act should be based on the need to seek to change the behaviour of minors. Repressions should not be the basis for these changes. However, we have some doubts about these grounds and about these assumptions. This is an expected project, a project that has been working for four years. 4 years of work, consultation, attempts to make changes, proposals for very restrictive rules, from which the Ministry has fortunately withdrawn. We had a long break, and suddenly the project comes back. Unfortunately, as my friend said, it was only Tuesday that we learned that the first reading would take place. We honestly say that we really want to work on this project. I know the ministry is in a hurry, I know it's urgent, I know you've been wanting to launch this project since September 1st. However, we will try to convince you to wait another year and this project will simply refine, cleanse it of some absurd regulations. As I said, it seems to me that all committees outside the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Education, the Social Policy Committee are keenly interested in working on this project. As far as reservations are concerned, I have the impression that the political authors of the project focus, however, first, on the ideological preamble and the personal ideological crusade. You do not take into account many of the comments and the proposed corrections during the public consultation. Unfortunately, Minister Ziobro focuses on being a very strict sheriff and pushes his vision of rehabilitation of children based on severe punishment and repression, on tools that raise reasonable doubts at particular points. As a teacher, I feel that this law is based on the Prussian model of education and proposes its continuation. We'd love to talk about it, we'd be happy to argue, we'd be happy to show our suggestions, but we're asking for such favor. It's about being ready to work on this project. When it begins to work on a project that changes dozens of other laws and the whole mythical system that has been in operation or has not functioned for 40 years, it can be different. We know that. After all, the same is true in the case of foster care. It's worth it once and for all. You have to be thorough. The point is that at every stage of this process, the most important are the rights of minors, so that the child's well-being is the basis for the changes being made. We hope the resort will be favorable. We hope you will take your time. We hope that you will want this project to be good. I don't have any more time, and I regret it. Minister, you can see what this project looks like. We are applying to refer this project to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u236	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Ueberhan will speak on behalf of the Left Club in the second part. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u237	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The baby wants to be good. If he can't, teach. If he doesn't know, explain. If he can't help, help. We all know that quote. This is Janusz Korczak. A correctional facility up to the age of 24, more powers of the school director, the possibility of using handcuffs and safety straitjackets, a new educational centre - these are solutions which, according to the Ministry of Justice, are intended to ensure the effective rehabilitation of juvenile offenders. Is that what's gonna happen? Each year, around 25,000 people are accused of corrupting or committing a criminal offence before the judges of the family courts. children. While this number is decreasing from year to year, we still need a system that guarantees effective rehabilitation measures for those children who face it, a system that gives children the chance to grow up with the possibility of normal functioning in social relations, a system that takes into account the foundations of human rights protection, including the rights of the child, such as the right to a fair trial, freedom from torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, discrimination, child welfare, subjective treatment and reintegration. The law in force doesn't pass that test. I ask: Has this project met these challenges? There's no clear answer. Unfortunately, the project maintains its status quo to a large extent. More important changes in the submission are rather quantitative rather than qualitative. The point is to increase the flow of pupils, not the level of care. Still in a solution addressed to minors lack of consistency and systemicity, lack of holistic look. The proposed solutions create isolated islands of separate institutions, separate competences between which there are no bridges leading to a common goal. Automatism enshrined in the law and restricting the freedom of judges directly threatens the welfare of the child. Unfortunately, the project duplicates the errors of the current juvenile law. The first on the side of the error -the court proceedings are to be carried out on the basis of the regulations of k.p.c. instead of K.P.K. The project contains a number of regulations that raise doubts as to the standards for the protection of human rights. The first example on the shore is the possibility of limiting the contact of a minor with his family. It is difficult to assess the effectiveness of the proposed solutions at this stage. One thing is certain: strengthening juvenile criminal policy will not bring any positive solutions. It is important to move from repressive to caring solutions. The first ones were already and didn't bring anything good. [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course.]] The Left declares its readiness to work on this project according to the next sentence of Janusz Korczak, which I wanted to quote here: Let the children wander and joyfully strive for improvement. From the support of the solutions that are in the present submission, we are still holding back at this stage. We're addicted to the work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u238	Thank you kindly, Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I intend to present our position on the government draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors. The project deals with a comprehensive regulation of issues relating to minors whose behaviour requires the intervention of state authorities. The proposals contained in this document concern, inter alia,: the creation of new juvenile facilities in the form of district educational centres, the introduction of the possibility of out-of-court response to the proper behaviour of minors, the establishment of a minimum age limit for demoralisation at the level of 10 years. Undoubtedly, it is important to appreciate the inclusion of all offences in the concept of criminal conduct, not just strictly defined, as is currently the case. Often carried out on a regular basis, minor offences appear to indicate a higher degree of demoralization than committing a destructive act of crime. We also consider the possibility, with the consent of the parents, of imposing certain duties on a minor by the school's principal, who exhibits depravity or criminal acts on the school premises. The inclusion of parents in this process through their consent is also part of the pedagogy of adult carers or parents themselves. It is doubtful to leave without changing the catalogue of depraved behaviors. We agree with the justification of the project that over the years in practice this catalogue has already been defined and accepted. Nor does it raise much doubt, but it is worth noting that the records, which contain the indicated manifestations of the demoralization of minors, were created a long time ago in the 1970s, so today they need to be given new content, as well as new manifestations resulting from social transformations, such as those related to the Internet or the much more widespread availability of drugs. It is also worth more appreciating the educational measure in the form of a referral to the probation centre. It is a good, effective institution, which has not yet been sufficiently appreciated. The courts refer minors to these facilities to a small extent, because there are relatively few of them, and they should be set up at each regional court, have clearly defined tasks and funding. They should be financed by those courts as well as have more powers, especially in the case of managers of centres and their disposal of funds at their disposal. On the other hand, we consider it dangerous to think about the possibility of extending the reform measure until the age of 24. This is a kind of way out to meet the expectations of sometimes demanding a very strict punishment of minors who commit violent crimes of the public, but the conditions for extending their stay to the age of 24 are, I would say, judged. The danger lies in the fact that, on average, after 3 years in a correctional facility, there is a high risk of secondary demoralization, so that the rehabilitation process does not last for more than 3 years. It is hard to imagine that a person who is 13 years of age and who has committed a criminal act would remain in a correctional institution for 11 years until a very mature age, or 24 years of age. After leaving the facility, it will be a completely dysfunctional person, deprived of any adaptability and will end up in a penitentiary sooner than expected by adapting to society. High Seym! However, this project does not address the three most important problems which would improve the effectiveness of the impact on juvenile offenders of criminal acts or depravity. First of all, existing and proposed solutions provide for interference in the educational process of minors only when they show depravity. This means that the state's response to dangerous symptoms in the behaviour of minors is very often and will be late. The current system most often sees a minor when he is already on the road to crime or is already heavily addicted to alcohol or drugs. Yet symptoms appear here much earlier and following this dangerous path should be stopped at a much earlier stage rather than reacting when it is too late. The second serious negligence that has been waiting for nearly 40 years to be made up is the creation of mechanisms for simultaneous impact on minors and the family environment. For many years it has been obvious, it is written by literature, and experts say that the family is the most important educational environment for the child. Unfortunately, this is not much in practice. There are still no systemic solutions in the area of so-called. educating the family. If we want to effectively rehabilitate young people, we must also help older ones: parents or carers. The third problem is the real help and support of former school pupils locked up in the process of their return to normal life. It is important to be aware that many of them have been rehabilitating since early childhood. Even a parent who first goes to such a facility and leaves as an adult is colliding with problems he didn't know as a child. Often these people are merely helpless, because today's system teaches their claims rather than their responsibilities and creativity. They have problems in solving current problems, in re-entering the family environment. Today there are no systemic solutions supporting them in this difficult process of social adaptation. It would be good if the proposed law on this topic and this issue would also be taken to the workshop. As far as these three fundamental problems are concerned, they have not been resolved by the existing legal status, nor has the draft law responded to them in any way. Despite these shortcomings, many of the proposals contained in the project are worth attention, which is why the Polish Coalition Club, which I represent here, i.e. the PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, requests that the project be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! At the gallery there is a group of young people from 7th Lo in Wrocław and from the elementary school from Yugoslavia in Lower Silesia. We'd like to welcome you all. I wish this lesson was interesting. [[Applause]] We thank the Member for inviting the young people to our meeting today. Another speech - Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u241	God's greetings to minors, children and young people, children and young people in Poland, whose life in the last 2 years you have transformed into a new world. Besides, this vocabulary was an announcement made here by the Prime Minister of your government, Minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, also about the shame of Wroclaw. The Prime Minister announced a new normality, and here are the children and young people for two years we have been holding in this new normality, some of which will not be able to escape for the rest of their lives. You're making a bill here to support and rehabilitate minors. For starters, don't harm, Primum non nocere, don't destroy for starters. And here are the statistics of these last 2 years that bring one indicator, which is an indicator of disaster, disaster and national horror, namely the rate of suicide attempts among minors. Children and adolescents 30% to 40% more often they choose to live in the Republic of Poland and this is an increase in the norm of the new normality of Prime Minister Morawiecki. In some municipalities I hear, e.g. In Raciborz, it exceeded 50%. Jumping up suicide attempts among minors. Fortunately, not all with the ultimate and irreversible effect. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to help, it would be worth showing, especially in the Justice Department, some signs of a crime being committed here on a young generation. Packing children and young people for quarantine, lockdowns in schools and just the word key to this project - demoralization. Embrace the young generation with lies, scams, of course under the patronage of the authorities of the highest Republic of Poland with the marshal in the strict lead and in close composition. Hypocrisy, cyclicalism, lying, cheating, lessons being taught - about, like here, the proceedings of the High House - remotely, right? Whoever clicked from the shower there, who for, who opposed, who abstained, will never know. So we're getting used to moving away from civilized standards, which is demoralization. I ask the Minister to answer in writing the question of what are the statistics of juvenile delinquency recorded by you using these fabulous possibilities created by the COVID rigors, the masking regime. In how many cases you haven't detected, determined or proved in court the crime because of the fact that what was previously banned in public space - the fight against the so-called. Kibolami led by the previous regime - now suddenly it has become not only promoted but also mandatory? So what's the statistics on these crimes? Of course, it is a good project in many terms, of course it begins beautifully, but it is a testimony of some enormous helplessness. Apparently, it is already so bad with the Polish family that it is necessary to repeat this mantra every time, it is necessary to write that it is primarily the family that depends on what the young generation will be like, because in fact you have led the country over the last 2 years to nuclear destruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u243	After all, you've led me to think that there are families in which the grandparents haven't met their grandchildren for Christmas anymore. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u244	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir, time has passed. Mr Tomasz Zimoch on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome. As you can see, the process of rehabilitation would not only help young people. You're welcome. [[Thanks to us, the grandparents of these children are alive.]] [[You're a criminal.]] Mr President, even rehabilitation here would not help, a doctor or anything else at all. You're welcome, sir. [[Please measure your impudence, Mrs. Gosievska.]] Calm down, she can take her meds and listen to another speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Act on support and rehabilitation of minors: 417 articles, 7 chapters, 257 pages of justification, and the whole print is 913 pages. A powerful, serious battery of regulation, an important regulation. 417 articles are preceded by the preamble. Is it becoming a permanent part of the United Rights' projects? After all, the preamble appears during the work of the committee on a project concerning the Supreme Court, or rather the court, because such a term is used by the sympathetic Member Sak and his colleagues, who consider it necessary to describe the reasons for the adoption, adoption by the Sejm of the law. Is there really anything special to include in this project a description of the circumstances of presenting the objectives to be served, or is this preamble really necessary? The Minister mentioned, but it is worth recalling that the legislative work on this project began many years ago, and the project was largely a result of the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Grabowski case against Poland. In May 2012, in order to remind you, Maximilian Grabowski was placed for 3 months in a youth hostel in connection with the suspicion of several robberies, as well as the legitimate concern of masturbation. After the expiry of the period for which the applicant was placed at a youth shelter, the defender requested that it be immediately repealed. It turned out that when the case was referred to the review procedure, the courts no longer issued decisions under the Article. 27 § 4 and 5 of the Juvenile Procedure Act, i.e. Decisions extending residence in a shelter for minors, this was the practice of family courts. In January 2013, the court ruled that the complainant had been placed in a correction facility, suspending the implementation of the measure for a period of 2 years. And on the same day, the complainant was released from the juvenile shelter. In his complaint to the Court, he accused a violation of the Convention on Human Rights because he was held in a juvenile shelter for 5 months without a court decision. Polish law did not guarantee the procedure of questioning imprisonment. The Court took account of the action, found that the detention of the complainant in a youth shelter was not lawful within the meaning of Article. 5 conventions. Everyone has the right to freedom. The case was also dealt with by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman at the time asked the Minister of Justice on this matter, who felt that it was imperative that the matter be dealt with because the practice so far was unsatisfactory. Does the current project really support minors? That's the basic question we have to ask ourselves here. The proposed law introduces several amendments to several dozen other laws, which are of major importance in the area of civil liberties. The issue of debate is, as has been said here, the introduction of the lower limit of the age of a minor for whom the law can be applied, i.e. Ten years. A large number of reservations can also be raised by a catalogue of sanctions against a minor, for example specific cleaning work for the school. Questions may arise as to the compatibility of such sanctions with constitutional rights and freedoms. A lot of objections will be raised by the way the penalty is executed. Who would supervise her? Teacher? What are the rules? Are these specially introduced teaching hours? Some records also give us the opportunity, so we think, to punish almost several times for the same act. And whether or not it is contrary to the Constitution, provisions introducing, for example, a catalogue of articles may appear. 14 of the proposed law on the provisions from which an appeal can be brought? Has their constitutional procedural rights, including the right to bi-instance and transparency, been preserved in support of minors by ensuring their non-demoralisation? 417 articles. Let's not rush, Marshal, Minister in the Seym with the process of this project, let's work quietly. It is likely that this project needs to be discussed in several committees, perhaps even in subcommittees. Let us remember that we really want to regulate the law that applies to minors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. First question - Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u247	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask questions in two areas. The former has already been referred to by Members representing the club position. I think that he is extremely important, because in the case of the demoralization of minors it usually happens in some way in the family environment. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister whether the Act provides for any mechanisms in respect of the families of minors who will be subject to the provisions of this proposed law. It seems that today it should be one of the important areas of action of such regulation, and more towards education, towards some form of repair than in the form of some, I would say, drill. And second question: Does the project provide for additional financial resources for both the property area (the bell) and the security of the charges and the staff of the centre? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u248	Thank you, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some doubts about the fundamental issues raised in this document. However, it seems to me that the basic rule and first priority should be to ensure the safety and care of the health and life of outsiders and families, and only in the second plan should we be guided by the welfare of a minor who is guilty of crimes at risk of years of adult life by sentences of absolute imprisonment. The harm done to a third party is just as severe and is the same with regard to their lives, regardless of who is doing it, and it is the duty of the State to rule out all circumstances likely to favour such a situation in the first place. The personality and psychophysical development of minors should be addressed where this does not pose a threat to other people under conditions of total safety (the Bell) also for the minor himself. If the Minister wishes to answer my doubts in writing, I will be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to their age, inexperience or dysfunctional family environment, minors are particularly vulnerable to any abuse, including violence in places of imprisonment. This risk requires you to create an appropriate legal framework and, above all, to see the problem of minors earlier and to interfere in the educational process before the processes and manifestations of demoralization begin. My question is: Are you working - I am addressing the Ministry - on mechanisms that allow for simultaneous impact on both minors and the family, educational environment? Because that's definitely what's missing from this project. There are no systemic solutions for family pedagogy and real help and support for former school pupils locked up in the process of their return to normal life. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u252	Thank you, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u253	Minister! I have a question about teenage mothers. This is a very important topic and it is good that this issue is regulated in such a way that they can take care of their children wherever possible. However, these records are quite vague and unclear, because you focus mainly on educational activities, which are of course needed, and they are not enough. We know that in order for rehabilitation or preparation for normal life to be effective, there must be the possibility of economic and professional emancipation. My question concerns this area, because the bill contains a statement of financial assistance. I would like to know what funds will be earmarked for this purpose, i.e. (The bell) whether actually teenage mothers will receive regular payments in the form of benefits, whether it's a one-off payment, whether it's real funds that will allow a family, a woman, to become independent when she stops being a teenager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u254	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u255	Minister! There is repeated such a quasi-legal spell that anyone who knows about the manifestations of corruption or the circumstances which result from it has, and I quote, a social obligation to notify it. So I'm saying it's a spell, because there's no specific sanction, so it's just a possible anatomy, environmental moral sanction - only and until. Please check and answer me, as I have already asked, in writing, what is the statistics of crimes, offences, violations of the COVID regime - which you have established and as you have established, on the same day the Minister called it off (the bell) - during these last years with the participation of minors in Poland. Trials, prosecutors, police reports that the COVID regime has been violated.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u256	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 175 pages, 417 articles, 52 106 words, 31 amended laws and one repealed, and in the explanatory memorandum of 257 pages the authors are mostly proud of the title of the act on the promotion and rehabilitation of young people. In the meantime, the law discusses in detail e.g. rules on the operation of deposits in correction houses and MOWs. This is probably a very important subject, but it is not mentioned in a word how to rehabilitate difficult young people in difficult conditions who are poorly prepared for such work. The bill will not make hundreds of psychologists and child psychiatrists suddenly appear, without which there is neither support nor rehabilitation of younger and younger subjects, because this law reduces the age to 10 years, the age of responsibility of children. Nor does the Act mention where local authorities are to take funds for the activities of youth educational centers, for their continuous renovations, because most institutions are (the bell) in old buildings. I know something about it because there's a MOW in my Reval, and it's still a bottomless well for the county. I'm sure this bill is needed, just remember that without deposits, the correctional home can function, but without psychologists, child psychiatrists and highly qualified staff can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! If you'll excuse me, ma'am, before I speak, I want a formal case. Mr Braun, a kind request for you. Young people are listening to us today. Such words are not suitable for your marshal and Mrs. Teresa Wargocka. I kindly ask you to apologize, dear ladies. You can't give such an example, you can't scream at the messengers: a criminal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u260	Mr President, please proceed with the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u261	As far as the debate is concerned today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that this reform prepared by Minister Michał Wosia with the support of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, who amends the law that was still passed in the martial state in 1982, is a fundamental reform for minors. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u262	Great. Rudeness comes out of you as usual, Mr Braun. Drugs don't help.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u263	Finally, the Polish state will have the tools to professionally deal with those minors who break the law. We have the following situation: in the end, those (the bell) who break the law hardest will be allowed to stay in the correctional facilities until they are 24 years old. Thank you, Minister, for this reform. I assume that we will accept it as a cross-party 460 Members, because it is a very important, fundamental reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u264	Thank you, sir. I warn you, don't ask such appeals again as questions, because they only provoke further forms of insult, and that was just a moment ago. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about family support, such broad support, because sometimes you have to force this family to participate properly in the process of rehabilitation. I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that this young man who goes to the plant is in the process of learning his life, just learning it. He gets a few years out of this science, and his process of returning to society is much harder than when an adult returns from a prison. Penalty bets are different: mild security, semi-open, semi-closed. But I think it's missing here. I know it's different rules, Minister, but it's worth thinking about that bill too. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u266	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill is indeed very extensive. It's her asset, it's complex. If in this debate we draw a detailed element without looking at his correspondence with the others... It's a little bad. It recommends those who ask such questions. You have to look at it as a whole, in a certain holistic manner. In this sense, I also see aspects relating to the impact of school institutions, the courts on parents. After all, we talked about some mechanisms to get our parents to return to parental responsibility. Then the institutions appear, the responsibility of the institutions. And let me repeat once again: extreme respect for constitutional principles, such as what is important from the point of view of practitioners. If the young person (the bell) does not want to undergo personal inspection, he does not want to undergo detoxification tests, then what should the employee do? Hard to watch him catch up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I speak as former headmaster of the school, and at the same time as a social probation officer for several years. I've been successful both in one and the other. I would like to say that I am listening to the bill that the Minister has submitted - very warmly congratulations - and I fully agree with the proposed solutions. Even though these solutions weren't there, I used them. There are, among others. the new institution presented. The point is not to prosecute any minor crimes - maybe not crimes, but some bad behavior - and that these educational measures should be in school. Because I ran a small school, I fought for these students, so that there would be as many of them as possible, because we had potential. I accepted children with different backgrounds and none of them came out of this school lost. Each of them is very well functioning today in life. That is why I believe that the approach of the director, the teacher at this point is very stimulating the child to behave well, and I would ask that this institution be absolutely maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u270	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Minister! I'm so glad there's a bill. Congratulations. We've really been waiting for this bill, also as a medical doctor. I think it's important to rule out a condition and a mental disorder in the child first. The fact that the courts entered without such a diagnosis had a bearing on the situation in the Renics, this facility. There were children with mental illness, as well as criminal children. Renice showed this painful state of affairs. Forty years it's been expected to change. I just want to say one thing to Mr Braun: it wasn't COVID and lockdown that caused the children to commit suicide...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u272	Madam, we are at the point: questions to the Minister. [[200,000. Deaths.]] Don't yell, sir, from the jury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u273	...but violence in a family that's escalated. Thank you very much. [[200,000. You killed people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u274	Why is the Member screaming as usual? The drugs don't work? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Isn't the meds working? Then change it. Or a doctor. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're disrupting the Sejm's session.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that the new Juvenile Law goes to the Sejm. There are really many areas that we need to rethink and analyze. I wanted to share with you my reflection on work as a school teacher, the head of education. I notice two very positive things waiting. The point is that there should be no young people in youth centres with such different degrees of demoralization, because it basically cancels out the rehabilitation. And thank you very much for noticing the educational function of the school, because the current regulations, which provided that every misdemeanor student, a young man in a group, is reported to the police, really cut off the possibility of talking, persuasion, settlement, apologies (The Bell), which is a very important element at this level of development. We're declaring a job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u276	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to say that I am pleased that a new project has been created, which replaced the Juvenile Procedure Act, but unfortunately I cannot say this as a rehabilitation teacher, because it is a project, please, which is extremely restrictive. I know it was written by lawyers, but did you ask for the opinion of rehabilitation counselors? I don't believe it, because if you ask me, there's a lot of records in this bill that wouldn't be there. I can't imagine anyone who's in charge of rehabilitating young people will want them locked up. I'm just gonna put it this way: he won't want these people to be handcuffed in the hole and used other repressions. This is unacceptable. This is not happening in any European country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are creating a penitentiary system for young people. It's just unbelievable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am counting on it, Minister, that these records, which are controversial even for some Members of the PiS, as I have noted, will be amended. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u278	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have been waiting for this bill because I have been working with young people for many, many years. Not at school, but with volunteers, and these young people are similar. I've been waiting and I'm sad and hard because I think this bill is aimed not at rehabilitation, but rather at marginalizing these kids. It's a good thing the school's gonna have a bigger role, but I'm asking you so seriously. We all know there are no psychologists or educators in schools. All these resources... [[We've adopted a bill, Commissioner, there's 20,000. More jobs.]] Allow me to finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u280	Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u281	...because time is limited. All of the school's educational measures so far had already been given, because she could give a warning, and she could have acted in different ways. What are these new educational measures? How a school can act through so-called. public works? Who's gonna be here, that question has already been asked... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister, would you please listen? 'Cause you're about to answer. But I'd like you to answer the question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So who will be the verifier, who will be entrusted with this task? I don't want to say that there's money or that there's no money, I believe there'll be money, but if you answer exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u282	Thank you, Member, the question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u283	And what's even more important is that this law is also dealt with in the education commission, so that we can learn from this educational side...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u284	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u285	...to lean over it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u286	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice will answer the questions raised by Minister Michał Woś. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u287	Dear Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this debate, for the questions raised and for presenting your views. A large proportion of the questions or opinions raised by your Members show that matter is indeed very broad. There are 417 articles in the normative text, and I am aware that ladies and gentlemen have not had enough time for this project to be read, and I thank those of you who have learned. Professor Kurzepa has spoken of a holistic approach several times. This project is holistic and needs to be made clear. He's not repressive. [[He's extremely repressive.]] It is not repressive. This project, ladies and gentlemen, places a minor at the centre of a rehabilitation institution. [[Oppression apparatus.]] I would like to stress very strongly, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a law on the support and rehabilitation of minors. Minors. It's not an underage bill, it's an act about, I don't know, minors, etc. These are different legal institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, minors are those who, in fact, are already depraved or who have already committed a criminal act or a criminal act. And if we looked only like lawyers, only with the eyes of the family judge, then, ladies and gentlemen, there would not be so many legal institutions and legislative proposals in this project that work on the pre-school field. There would be no art in this project. 18, Art. 19, Art. 20, Art. 155. And that's what we're going to talk about at committee meetings, I hope, because I'm very open to cooperation. It seems that such a broad change that we are proposing has a chance to be accepted with broad support from Parliament, not just from the government or government parliamentary base. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a whole range of institutions here that cause actions still in the prefield of committing a prohibited act or in the prefield of demoralization - the commitment of parents to specific behaviour, the supervision of responsible parents as a means of education... [[It already exists.]] ...art. 155, probation. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill, you can say, is a constitution for institutions dealing with corrupt children. On the other hand, other state institutions are engaged in activities that cause these children not to be corrupted or that this demoralization is not progressing, and yet we are proposing here tools for directors as well as a whole range of actions, and above all the court in every case not from the present law on proceedings in juvenile cases, currently in force, nor from the law on support of rehabilitation of minors, but from the article. 109 The family and caring code and properly unlimited possibilities of court action, with respect to the principle of the child's well-being, and the commitment to certain behavior. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress very strongly that it is in spite of this approach that we have proposed in this project, recognising the extremely important role of the family, the extremely important role of combating corruption, a whole range of institutions which we are pointing out here in this sense, and I think they will be widely discussed in committee work. I'm going to come to your specific questions. What really appeared most often, what I mentioned - the impact on the whole family, not only on the minor, but also on the whole family. Here are the obligations of the court, the new tools for directors of institutions, correction centres, district educational centres and youth education centres, the possibility of state response, the possibility for directors to use these tools that we propose, but also by executive institutions, especially the police. There was a false opinion here that we were lowering the age of responsibility. On the contrary, we are setting it, we are increasing it, because at the moment there is no lower limit. Ten years is not a reduction. On the other hand, with regard to juveniles who commit criminal acts, the same level remains, the same age, 13 years old and thirteen years old. A person between the ages of 13 and 17 may be liable for criminal acts and a correction measure may be applied to such a person. There are educational measures for others. On the other hand, it is extremely important that, as part of this action in the pre-field, we have a law on supporting the family. We have a number of other institutions, we have 20,000. new jobs, as you also mentioned, school teachers. There is a supervision that is being carried out, also a whole range of different solutions that functioned, but for which, however, please remember this, the Minister of Education and Science, not the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice responds precisely to reactions to those who have already corrupted, to those who have already committed a criminal act, and focuses on not punishing them, but effectively rehabilitating them. The idea is to effectively rehabilitate - many times you have cited this example - also people who are not only 18 years old, but in the current system - 21 years old, and we propose 24 years old. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, imagine the situation in which a 16-year-old boy, 17-year-old, rapes with particular cruelty, murders with particular cruelty. A catalogue of actions from the article. 10 Penal Code - you will read - this is not stealing a candy bar, this is not pushing a colleague at school, because there are completely different solutions to this. Rape with special cruelty, murder of many people, murder with special cruelty, kidnapping of an airplane, assassination, etc. You can imagine a situation like this. Then, indeed, we are dealing with a degree of demoralization. If this is e.g. A person between the ages of 15 and 17 can respond like an adult. I'd like to remind you of that, too. [[Yeah, yeah.]] On the other hand, if, for various reasons, the court or the prosecution decides that this person should not respond as an adult, but is being demoralized, then we should give effective tools to work with such a person. An effective tool is not... That's what the reform workers are talking about, that's what specialists are talking about, and that's what the best specialists are talking about. I was sad to hear the opinion of one of the Members. Mr Łącki spoke about the lack of specialists and the lack of quality of staff. Absolutely not. They are the best rehabilitation specialists in Poland and have very good results. It is true that a wide staff in such a facility, sometimes with 50-60 jobs, deals with - there are cases - a few people. This bill is also intended to eliminate systemically, among others. this kind of pathology, very expensive for you. The Polish state invests millions, hundreds of millions of zlotys in the rehabilitation of minors. These specialists say that e.g. Putting someone in a correctional facility for a year for six months doesn't meet any criteria, it's not an effective rehabilitation. We in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, are introducing what you said was not there - please read, we will work on it during committee meetings - just tools for people who leave the reform centres. Co-operation with the probation officer, commitment to specific behavior, continuation of therapy. In this act we exhibit, we distinguish the curator centers that we develop. There's a program for the development of probation centers. Last year, five of them were created, except for the dozens of existing ones. This year's money has been secured at another 10 centers, next year it will be 15 and so on, so that, in fact, in every district court, such a probation centre - where these minors of course enter - may be a form of cooperation. That was also the question today. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a child at the center of this bill, there's a minor, there's his welfare. This is the most important thought regardless of the various actions, and we are, of course, in favour of the Ministry of Justice - I do not think it is necessary to convince anyone in this Chamber - a clear, firm criminal policy of the state. We believe that the severity of punishment is as important as inevitability, contrary to what some would like to say, that it is only about inevitability. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, despite my clear views on the Penal Code, we in this bill are focusing on the welfare of the child. There is no repressive action here, there is no criminalisation, there is no punishment here, because minors in the correctional facilities are not punished, they are rehabilitated if there is a reason for it. Hence educational measures and correction measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the declarations of cooperation, seeing that this law is really necessary, that the current Archaic rules do not conform to the social reality that we have. I welcome these declarations of readiness for further cooperation from the Ministry of Justice. From the Government And certainly this openness to cooperation is. Thank you kindly. Thank you very much. [[Minister, on different committees?]] [[What about underage mothers? Well, maybe in writing, if not now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u288	Minister, those underage mothers that you have been asking about. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Yeah, yeah. The Member asked about underage mothers. We're bringing in... Regardless of the law, there are draft regulations. Within the framework of these actions, which you have asked about underage mothers, the Act introduces those necessary provisions which are at the statutory level. On the other hand, in the implementing acts, there are projects in the regulations as to how this should work. But it doesn't work right now. Underage mothers under the scheme for the use of various types of benefits are not excluded. They can benefit from the same benefits as all other mothers in Poland. On the other hand, these funds, the money that you spoke about, are not money for these mothers. It's about people who are under the care of the state. The state provides them with a shelter and a bed, special cooperation is carried out with these people. The measures provided for by this law, the additional resources, are money for those institutions which will start branches for underage mothers with children, in order, first, to hire additional specialists who would be needed in such care, for example, if these mothers are sometimes subject to a school obligation, and secondly, to properly equip these branches for underage mothers, so that the conditions for raising children under these specific conditions are as good as possible. However, these are not funds that are transferred to these people. The state already gives them a roof over their head and food - plus, of course, all the rehabilitation opportunities that are necessary - by performing a correctional measure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, why didn't you answer my question?]] Thank you. As I understand it, there will be work in committees and you will explain any doubts. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to refer the bill to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, as well as to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws (print No 2121). I kindly ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the applicants, i.e. Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a draft amendment to the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement. I would like to remind you that the Centre was set up by the Law of 25 March 2011. I will also say that from the beginning as the Law and Justice Club, as I have opposed such a formula of the institution's uprising. I am pleased that, now, in a consensus with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and representatives of the Centre itself, we can take on the issue of its profound transformation and extension of its area of activity. The reasons for establishing the centre by the PO-PSL coalition in 2011 in such a formula and through such a law were ideological and protective. It was a pro-Russian operation aimed at warming Moscow's image after the Smolensk tragedy. The omission of Lithuania, Latvia or Estonia can be explained by their membership in the EU and NATO. Indeed, it is a good opportunity to cooperate with these countries and with these nations in other forms. However, the lack of Ukraine and Belarus, and perhaps also of Moldova and Georgia, or of general reference to Eastern European countries, was an affront to these countries and nations. Nevertheless, and this is interesting, the Polish centre conducted, both under the previous and under the current management, useful activities. It might be worth a few words, a few sentences. These are source research in Russian, Ukrainian and British archives, scientific publications, editions of sources for Polish-Soviet relations, collective monographs, among others. on the violation of international law by Russia through the annexation of Crimea, including on Polish-Ukrainian relations, scientific conferences in Poland and abroad, among others. in the United States, the transatlantic forum on Russia. Very valuable, very important activity and achievement of this center is a virtual guide Katyn Pro Memoria - a guide to cemeteries such as Katyn, Miednoje, Kharkiv and Bykownia. Another thing, another area of activity is summer schools for young scientists and journalists from the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, widely understood, because young scientists and journalists from many countries, courses of international law, reminding people of genocide. In the first years it is also the exchange of young people with Russia, among others. From the royal area or from the Baikal region. Bajkal is an important place not only geographically, but historically, because we remember that after the January Uprising there Poles continued to fight against the Russian assassin, just in the Bajkal Uprising in 1866. Finally, cooperation with the Memorial, among others. on the operation of the anti-Polish NKVD from the years 1937-1938, i.e. documenting the history of these at least 111 thousand. Poles, or perhaps a much larger number of Poles who lived in the Soviet Union - but not because this was their choice, just because the Soviet Union, so to speak, got them - and were murdered in the years 1937-1938 only for being Poles. It was a genocide carried out on Poles. Conference in Rome on St. John Paul II in the context of the nations of Eastern Europe and the influence of teaching St. John Paul II to the nations of Eastern Europe, to the liberation from communism, as well as about the perception of teaching of the Holy Pope Pole today also in these areas and among the nations of Central and Eastern Europe. An interesting area of activity is also an independent public opinion poll in Russia, which unfortunately confirmed and confirmed the popularity of the imperial concept - Moscow, Russian, Bolshevik and contemporary post-bolshevik imperial concept of Russian aggression against different countries, to various nations in order to regain the former Soviet Union and affect at least half of Europe. It is also published in the Russian language New Poland to the Russians, and then the Russian-speaking portal New Poland to the Russian-speaking Poland was created or finally, even though it comes out for the sake of the case a little more than this formula imposed by the legislator, the narrow and ideological formula of the centre, the portal Nowa Polszcza was created in Ukrainian for the Ukrainians, or we have a cycle of discussions in Kiev, Lviv or Odessa on cooperation with Ukraine, on the occupation of Crimea and Donbas, on international law, on the prospects of ending the Russian occupation of part of Ukraine. There are source research in SBU archives, i.e. Ukrainian Special Services, concerning to a large extent the fate of Poles. It is also a commentary on Ukrainian-Russian issues in Ukrainian media, promoting information about Polish foreign policy towards Ukraine. In this context, we see how great a loss it was that this institution, because of the law it adopted, could not have had an impact on a much wider area of Central and Eastern Europe. After all, all these activities of the Centre could lead in relations with countries and nations, with very many countries and very, very many peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. This would be very important and I think it would be beneficial for even today's situation in Central Europe and Eastern Europe. It is also worth mentioning that now the chairman of the Council of the Centre is an outstanding historian, maybe one of the biggest contemporary Polish historians, and in Canada the best expert in the history of Central and Eastern Europe and Russia, Prof. Andrzej Nowak. You can also say that he is an outstanding Polish intellectual. It is also important to remember that although a similar center was formally created on the Russian side, it was supposedly the equivalent of the Polish centre, but it promoted and promoted the anti-Polish version of Moscow-Polish history and relations. She also cooperated with post-communist environments in Poland and with useful idiots of Moscow. The Polish center has been suspended cooperation with the Russian supposedly equivalent in 2014 It has also been active in sport, especially in the youth exchange area, until 2018. As far as the current situation is concerned, we have discussed this many times, but now there is an urgent need, for example, because, as far as this next Moscow aggression against Ukraine could still be carried out in this form of the centre, also in Polish-Ukrainian relations, now, with such a degree of aggression, such a degree of barbarism and Moscow genocide in this form of the centre cannot function effectively in relations... In Polish-Russian relations it could not work anyway, because these were not the assumptions of legislators and those who inspired these actions from the Russian side, and in Polish-Ukrainian or other relations it is impossible at the moment. Now the main task of this change, this amendment is a broad cooperation. What instruments did we consider necessary for this? Of course, changing the name of the centre from the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding - not only absurd today, but it can be said that it is offensive to other nations of Central and Eastern Europe. It was proposed to change its name to the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Jaroszewski. The name itself, as I said, hindered cooperation, e.g. Ukraine, and now in a time of genocide in Moscow, almost prevented contact with the Ukrainians. An important change appeared in the article. 3. It states that the aim of the Centre's activities is to initiate, support and take action for dialogue and agreement in Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Belarusian and Polish-Russian relations. This is the extension, the extension of the minimum, the scope and the area of cooperation. There have also been obvious changes in records resulting from this, e.g. relating to the tasks of the Centre concerning dissemination in Poland and beyond its borders of knowledge of the political situation, history, culture, heritage of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. There was also a provision concerning the financing of projects undertaken for dialogue and agreement in Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Belarusian and Polish-Russian relations. Finally, there is a change in Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 6: a scholarship fund shall be created by means of an entity grant referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 of not more than 5% an entity grant as defined in the Budget Act for the year in question. The scholarship fund may be increased by the funds transferred to the Centre on the basis of separate financing agreements or grant grants. If we are to cooperate really, whether at the moment it is primarily with the Ukrainians, but also in the perspective of other peoples of Central, Central and Eastern Europe, it must be possible to grant scholarships so that this cooperation is real and concrete. In general, the aim of the amendment is to transform the centre so that it is possible to wide-ranging Polish-Ukrainian cooperation and to develop dynamic and effective actions in Ukraine while leaving the instruments to contact and, where possible, cooperate with the opposition in Russia or Belarus, as well as to extend the tools for contacting Poles, including Belarus and Russia. Let us also remember about Poles who live in Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and Kazakhstan or many other countries of Central and Eastern Europe or Eastern Europe. Furthermore, we also want to open the possibility of cooperation with Moldova, as well as Georgia and more broadly with the countries and peoples of the Caucasus. On behalf of the applicants, I ask the marshal to refer a draft of this law, this amendment to the Committee on Culture and Media, so that we can deal effectively with it and consequently lead to the development of cooperation between Polish, Ukrainian and other Central and Eastern European nations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws. Of course, we support this amendment. Despite the efforts of the Polish-Russian Centre for Dialogue and Understanding, the previous law made it difficult to cooperate with Ukrainians and other peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, and almost prevented it in the face of the current Moscow aggression. The Law and Justice Club, on the other hand, is still considering introducing amendments in several areas covered by this amendment, including: in such an area as considering the exact name of the centre: whether to really stick to the attachment to such a patron as has so far been proposed, or to find another patron, to find a broader formula to make the name as clear as possible for the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. The second question: considering the introduction as the purpose of the centre not only of Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Belarusian, Polish-Russian relations, but also of Poles' relations with Moldovans, with Georgians, as well as with other peoples of Eastern Europe, i.e. primarily with the peoples of the Caucasus, and considering that many Poles live in Kazakhstan, I think that this is also an area that needs to be taken into account, that these contacts with Poles in Kazakhstan must be developed as well as with Kazakhstan itself. Finally, another issue to consider is the question of these scholarships. However, shouldn't this percentage of the entity's budget subsidy to the centre, which would be granted on scholarships, be increased? If, on the one hand, we want to help effectively and, on the other hand, at this point in particular engage in cooperation between Polish-Ukrainian young, Ukrainian students, scientists, I think that these funds for scholarships should be bigger, and in the long term this should of course also be effectively implemented in relations with other peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. It may also be important to clarify in Article. 7 that possible branches of the local centre can be established both in the country and abroad. You could say it's a Pilecki Institute-like operation. As we know, for example, this branch of the Pilecki Institute in Berlin plays a very useful role, and I think that the operation of other branches of the Pilecki Institute is also a very important idea. I think that, too, in the case of the centre, it would be a big, big benefit. I think it may also be important to clarify on the basis of which rules, which institutions and countries could apply for funding of projects through the Centre for Dialogue. In any event, the Law and Justice Club strongly supports the adoption of this bill so that it can act so that the Centre can operate effectively and positively in the area of Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you to present your position to the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws. Putin's criminal aggression in Ukraine, which has been going on for over 2 months, has, unfortunately, already shown clearly that we should reevaluate our attitude also in the way we think about Polish-Russian social dialogue. Therefore, we fully agree that during the period of the war based on genocide carried out on the Ukrainian people by the Russian aggressor, and also after it was completed, taking into account also the favourable attitude towards Putin's regime of a large part of Russian society, the functioning of such an unambiguous institution as the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement would be a big mistake. The change of name and the extension of activities aimed at supporting the Ukrainian people fighting for their country and fighting for democracy of the Belarusian people is a good solution. It is also important that the dialogue centre will be open to cooperation only with the part of the Russian people that condemns Putin's criminal regime. Honoring Juliusz Mieroszewski, a Polish 20th-century political writer who advocated dialogue with both Russians and Ukrainians and Belarusians, in the name of the dialogue centre is a good idea. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the above, the bill presented does not raise our doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Club of the Left on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws, print No 2121. The proposed bill assumes the transformation of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding into the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski and broadening the interest of the centre so that it deals not only with Polish-Russian relations, but especially Polish-Ukrainian and Polish-Belarusian relations. This, of course, is the right idea to support and support, and there is no doubt about it. This transformation, however, is not only a change of the formula of action of one of the many institutions that support socio-cultural dialogue, but it is also a symbol of our unwavering support for the brother Ukraine, Ukraine, which has been based on the Russian invasion for more than 2 months, paying blood for maintaining its independence. By crushing and resisting Russian attacks, Ukraine also defends the entire region against the spread of invaders wishing to seize or subdue other countries and enslave further nations. The events of recent months, the Russian armed assault on Ukraine, the escape of millions of Ukrainians from the war, of which more than 1.5 million have found refuge in Poland, all this makes it even more visible today, how much the fate of our nations are connected. Today we share both bread and weapons, but we also share a common future that will come after the war. A change in the name and scope of the centre is in this case the declaration of the principles of our future Eastern policy, which is to establish a partnership, and even brotherly relations with our neighbours, brothers and sisters from across the eastern border. However, this cooperation must be based on mutual respect and recognition of the right to self-determination of nations, the right to freedom, as well as on democratic principles. A common, safe and prosperous future in Eastern Europe will be achieved by building true values-based relationships. We'll build them, remembering history, but face the future. We will build it by working side by side with people of good will from Ukraine, Belarus or Russia, together against Russian imperialism, against aggressors committing monstrous crimes, against nationalism, which pushes nations towards war, plunder and rape. Putinism didn't fall from the sky. He was built and fated for years with stories about the moral rottenness of the West, about the leftist-liberal Brussels elites who supposedly want to replace family values with a cocktail of cultural Marxism, LGBT ideology and abortion. Unfortunately, this is also a rhetoric that we know too well from our own backyard, where politicians cynically play on fears and prejudices to mobilize their constituents. In the reborn Eastern Europe, which must be built after the end of the ongoing war, there must be no place to succumb to Kremlin propaganda based on hatred and discrimination. I am also personally pleased with the proposal to change the name of the institution and the patronage of Juliusz Mieroszewski, an outstanding journalist and publicist. I think it is worth recalling here that in the pages of Culture he formulated together with Jerzy Giedroyci an important political concept for the Polish political thought, according to which the sovereignty of Ukraine, Lithuania and Belarus is the factor that favours the independence of the Republic of Poland, and the dominance of these countries by Russia opens the way to aggression against our country or to enslave Poland. The Left wants to work on a project to transform the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding into the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski hopes that his work will further strengthen his cooperation with Ukraine, but will also open an opportunity to build relations with the Belarusian people or that part of the Russian people, which takes as a basis the peace and democracy that we so much need in our region to grow together in security and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u296	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u297	Thank you, Marshal, twice, also for saying hello to the young people of my hometown. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Juliusz Mieroszewski, one of the most interesting Polish publicists, political writers of the past century, the man who gave the matter to the Polish heart and mind, who had to spend his years of literary and intellectual excellence on emigration, exile in London, was not only, as Jerzy Giedroy, one of the pillars without which Paris would not have been created. ¿Culture and could not be published in ParisCulture, so important for Polish culture in the times of the Polish People's Republic, when much more important than the valuable thought, reflection and work of Poles was propaganda, initially Soviet and later communist Polish People's Republic. It is therefore a good thing that the Members of the applicant are extracting this form from the historical shadow, giving it the role of patron of the new institution, which would arise as a result of the transformation of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement, also because it was one of the authors of an important concept, which had its roots still at the beginning of the independent Polish state, in the previous century, a little bit of the abandoned concept of partnership, such a Jagiellonian thought, so that towards the neighbours, the neighbouring Eastern nations of Poland, to be partners, and not dominators, to seek agreement with the Ukrainian, Belarusian and Lithuanian nations. So he is indeed a great candidate for the newly established Center for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski served exactly this function to build bridges of intellectual, cultural agreement, but also the basis for political agreements with our eastern neighbours, which is not easy, even in contemporary history of Poland. I mean especially from time to time tense Polish-Lithuanian relations or many Polish matters in Lithuania not settled in the absence of sometimes obvious political will governing Lithuania or until recently a certain reluctance of Ukrainian neighbours to speak honestly about the difficult past. However, this centre should not, having as its main objective the agreement and approximation between these three neighbouring nations and Poles, lose sight of the Russian democrats. I am aware of the current situation: an unjust, illegal, disgustingly selfish war, justified by the ordinary desire to dominate the Ukrainian people by the Greater Ones who were embodied by Vladimir Putin, but supported - which should be remembered - by the vast majority of the Russian society, but also by the society that is the victim of misinformation and propaganda. So it would be good if the centre did not lose sight of these other neighbours - the Russian democrats. And the last thing worth noting during the work we are in favour of is further parliamentary work on this bill - it is about ensuring that this institution does not coincide with similar institutions which already operate in Poland, such as the International Solidarity Foundation. It is known that effort and effort never too much, but also an old Polish proverb says: where cooks six There's nothing to eat there. So it would be good to separate these tasks between the different institutions. We are in favour of continuing to work (The Bell) on this interesting, interesting project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u299	I am not going to discuss with people whose Eastern program consists of emotions, complexes and prejudices. Those who claim that anything Russian is wrong and contemptible are a problem for a psychiatrist, not for a politician. Juliusz Mieroszewski is a very promising patron, whom the Minister wanted to choose for this new institution, in which you will be able to do what you are doing with the Polish state so far, i.e. have some victium and food for your people, the PiS Mafia, the service and the lounge, which also operate in the section of propaganda struggle, as well as the historical policy that is being conducted and - it happens - brings some benefits, introduces something there to history. I say: it happens because the norm is that people make breakthroughs in private, they do something big at their own risk. Mr.Editor Tomasz Sommer and his monograph on the Polish NKVD action from the years 1937-1938. No government, or ours, was spent on what he did for his own. He went to Kiev, many times, excavating archives, documents concerning the slaughter of Poles carried out by the Soviet regime. This scale, after all, is a war hecatomb before nominally World War II begins. So you don't do these things. That's what private people do. As with the book Silk. Real history, documentary films. The book - brick, meanwhile for a year, since it appeared, and it is the same editorial office, the same publishing house, the same publisher and no reviews in the PiS media space. It is also because these are the rules of crime - who does not belong to us - that does not exist. Although you could show this film about Polish action. And let him take it - I think the author will agree - in using the eternal centre of Mieroszewski, because it is a good thing. You could show him on TV. Already about my cycle ¿Transformation - from Lenin to Putin I won't mention, because because this film, this documentary cycle has my name, it probably won't show it to the end of the world. In this context, of course - désintéressement on our part. We're gonna hold off because we're gonna have another PiS-owska institution. Historians good, good... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u300	Thank you. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a chance for an institution to be created, processed from the one that already exists, from a change that already exists, which will not be a party institution, but a state institution. That's what I'm counting on. I hope it does. The matter is fundamental from the point of view of the interests of Poland. The patron of this institution, Juliusz Mieroszewski, the author - together with the great Giedroyzyk - of the concept of ULB, i.e. cooperation and support of the national interests of Ukraine, Lithuania and Belarus, gives some hope. The man who devoted his entire life after World War II to convincing Poles that the program, which once, before the war was implemented by Piłsudski, strengthening the Eastern nations, is vitally important to us, but also to the man who understood the Russians. My previous speaker's quote was very good because Mieroszewski wasn't Russophobic. He simply wanted every nation to develop sovereignly. Poland needs institutions to conduct serious Eastern policies. A serious Eastern policy, that is, a long-term strategic policy, aimed at supporting national, national ambitions, those who are fighting arms in their hands today and proving that they have the full right to do so, but also those who do not yet have the same opportunities as Belarusians or Georgians. We would like - I declare this on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel - to really make the area of operation of this centre, this institution is widely understood by the European East. The idea is that this cooperation should not be limited only to these three Slavic nations, but also include Moldova and Georgia. And we would very much like, Minister, to have a certain protective umbrella, which has been extended over this institution so far, to create an institution from it... The point is that this institution should not be stubborned to create (the bell) an important state institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u302	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u303	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about financial matters. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that the Centre's budget will remain as far as it was foreseen for this year. On the other hand, in connection with the change of tasks - and here I agree with my colleague Mr Paul Zalewski's wheel - perhaps even it is necessary to extend the activities of this centre in relation to what is proposed. But how does the Ministry plan to operate the centre in the future, just when it comes to budgeting? How much more can this budget increase in relation to the extension of the range of tasks in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u304	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the main page of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding we see a large picture of a young woman with painted cheeks. On one of them it has the flag of the Russian Federation, a country that commits war crimes against the people of Ukraine and on the other - the flag of Poland. Has the Polish minister responsible for creating black letters and institutions cooperating with Russia already entered this centre and taken steps to take over its assets? Of course not, because Polish-Russian dialogue is well. None other than the Polish government makes the Polish sky available for transporting Russian uranium rods, for which Putin will be able to finance further war activities. I have a question for you. The tasks of the new centre of the Polish-Russian dialogue will include dialogue with Ukraine and Belarus. Has anyone asked the Belarusian side if she would like a dialogue in such company? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u306	What side of Belarus? Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. I don't think he's here. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u307	There's an opportunity, I'll ask you, Minister, and maybe you'll mail... Fate movie shoot Poles. It's a documentary, whose release was at hand, and it's still, I suppose, on television called a misdirection of an adversary, a nation, a public one. You could show that movie, he won't grow old. Maybe it would be a good forecast and a good new opening, a fresh vist from the centre of Mieroszewski. And this quote, which Mr Kowal liked here, continues. Mieroszewski writes: sooner or later Russia will have to be dealt with. In this connection, you may also initiate a minister under the auspices of the centre of Mieroszewski to put an end to this barbaric bell...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u309	...the rite of rites... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u310	Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the light of the current Putinian policy of Russia and the still favourable attitude towards the regime of a large part of Russian society, the continued functioning of the centre in the current formula, in the absence of a similar institution dealing with Ukrainian or Belarusian issues, is seen as a clear advantage of the Russian side. In relation to the current legal situation, the scope of tasks is extended to include tasks in the field of Polish-Belarusian and Polish-Ukrainian relations, and new tasks include combating stereotypes and countering misinformation. Minister! Would you like to talk a little bit more about the planned tasks that will be carried out in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u312	Thank you, sir. Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the project, which did not work, because we see that there was really no cooperation from Russia, will finally be completed, and instead of it, cooperation with other nations will be formalised at the heart of the dialogue, and especially with the Ukrainian people, which we have been working so well with lately. I am also pleased that we do not completely exclude the Russians, that those who are peaceful and thinking will also be able to participate in the dialogue in this centre. I therefore wish you good luck and I think it is good that the Member who is from Podkarpacie has just presented this project to us here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u314	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u315	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, This is a parliamentary proposal, so actually Members should answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u316	You will also answer the rapporteur, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Good. First of all, I wanted to express my gratitude to the group of twenty... As I read in the document, 24 Members signed the bill and submitted it. It's good timing and good sense of need. The point is to change the name of this center and its course of action. So that I express my gratitude for this initiative. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage oversees the activities of the Polish-Russian Centre for Dialogue and Understanding for 11 years. We have assessed the projects undertaken by this public institution as important, interesting, efficiently implemented and supporting the Polish state's right, but since the Russian aggression against Ukraine in 2014, resulting in the occupation of Crimea and parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk circuit areas, clearly and repeatedly condemned by the centre, multilateral projects involving Ukrainians and Belarusians have played an increasingly important role in the activities of this institution, as well as projects aimed at disseminating reliable knowledge of Russia and its policies in Poland and beyond. The Centre rejected Russian interlocutors' demands to focus solely on bilateral actions, believing that any Polish-Russian dialogue could not abstract Russian policy against common neighbours. The growing dislike of the Russian public institutions to have a serious conversation led the centre to devote more attention to the Russian opposition environments publicly opposed to aggressive foreign policy and to suppressing civil liberties and freedoms in Russia. In addition, the Centre, in agreement with the Ministry, implemented numerous projects aimed at Ukrainian society. It is worth noting, for example, the launch of an Internet magazine mentioned hereNew Poland in Ukrainian or public debates on international law organised in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, in Lviv, Odessa, combined with a presentation published by the Center of the book "The Case of Crimes Annexation under International Lawż." The Ministry noted the problems associated with the institution's taking action, especially in Ukraine, under the current name: the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding. Of course, it raised reservations among some Poles, and all the more it generated understandable emotions in Ukrainians and sometimes Belarusians or other nations. On the other hand, this name and the current mandate of the institutions facilitated the acquisition of contacts by the Russian Centre, and also constituted a skillful instrument used by the Polish diplomacy among the countries of the European Union and NATO to reject allegations made by the Russian Federation of alleged Polish Rusofobia. Everything changed in the morning on February 24th. - Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It has brought about a fundamental change in the circumstances of the action. In the strongest possible words, the Centre condemned the Russian state's crime of aggression, stressing in its statement that the necessary condition for dialogue with the Russians was their clear recognition of the rights of other nations to sovereignty, territorial integrity and democracy, and their exclusion from war and condemnation by the Russian army of war crimes. The Ministry of Culture believes that Russia's war against Ukraine forces the urgent transformation of the Centre of Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement, as well as the change of the name of the institution itself, so that the centre can take action corresponding to the new reality. The name so far creates a polarly different association from the actual role of the institution and from its actions, and makes it extremely difficult for Ukraine to provide assistance. Moreover, the further distinction only of Russia among the eastern neighbours of the Republic of Poland as a country with which the dialogue enjoys the support of the Polish state in the form of a special institution is now perceived as unwarranted advantages of this country, and this is in a situation where they violate the basic standards of international law. The organisation of dialogue with representatives of the Russian democratic environments is, of course, in line with the Polish state's rationale, but it should not obscure today's major objectives: to support the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state in the fight against the aggressor and the Belarusian people in the fight for democracy. For these reasons, the Ministry is solidarity on the urgent need to adopt the amendment contained in the submitted sejm printing. We believe that the transformation of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding into the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski will quickly launch a wide range of tools for new tasks, supporting Ukraine and the Ukrainians and Belarusian democratic environments, and will provide a clear political signal sent to Russia and to the Russians, highlighting the fundamental change of circumstances and highlighting the real hierarchy of Polish priorities in Eastern politics. I listened attentively to the debate on this parliamentary project and the questions you asked. I would like to start by saying that I believe that the proposals - because after first reading, of course, we will work on this project in committee - signalled here, regarding the extension of the centre's interest to nations other than those presented in the parliamentary presentation, i.e. Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian, are an interesting idea. But let us leave this to the discussion, because it is possible to think according to different patterns: either the centre deals with dialogue not so much with the Slavic nations as with nations neighbouring Poland, and then there is a good reason - Russians, Belarusians, Ukrainians - either it extends its activity to all post-Soviet countries which once were in orbit of the territorial and state influences of the former Republic of Poland, and then it is worth thinking about Moldova, or we extend it to countries that already have the prospect of entering the European Union, which is to extend it to Georgia, or we have the perspective of countries which are countries, post-Soviet countries or those which arose after the collapse of the Soviet Union, but which are within the borders of Europe. Then we extend it to Armenia and Azerbaijan or to all countries that were created as a result of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Then, as someone has already reported, it might be worth thinking about Kazakhstan. But if it's Kazakhstan, why not Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Kyrgyzstan? So, of course, this is the subject of an interesting discussion that we should have on the Parliamentary Committee and decide on something. Personally, if I could express my view, I believe that the formula proposed in the proposed proposal is appropriate, that we are dialogue with the nations directly neighbouring us, possibly I would consider extending to Moldova. As far as the patronage is concerned, I believe there was a signal here that we might still be discussing it. I would like to hear some other proposals than those submitted to the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski, but because of the arguments which some of you have put forward here and which I share, I think this is a good choice, this patron. I will not expand this, I just think that if we are talking about dialogue, if we are talking about dialogue in this geographical, geopolitical direction, if we are talking about dialogue with these particular nations, this is the patron of my view. Unless there's a more interesting offer. There were also questions about the budget, and he asked about it, among other things. Mr Suchoń. I think it's an institution. We have always been subject to the discussion of the budget law in the context of the debate we held in the Committee on Culture and Media, including. We also talked about the budget for this institution. So far, the subjective grant for the functioning of this institution has been more than PLN 6.5 million, but in view of the willingness and need to extend the action and in addition to the needs that we now have in connection with the intensifying of dialogue with Ukraine, with the Ukrainians, it seems to me that a more ambitious budget for this new institution is possible. We will respond to the proposals that the management of this institution itself will make in this regard. I signal that, from the point of view of the ministry, such an ambitious financing of this recast institution is possible. The Centre's principals, Dr Ernest Wyciszkiewicz and Dr Łukasz Adamski, who I welcome on behalf of myself, and I hope you will also be on behalf of your fellow Members. That will be their task, we will ask them to present - because here I am answering the question of Mr Adam Gawada - the concrete actions they are planning this year, which are related to the extension of the centre's activities, and explain with what financial means I am involved. I think that we will also be able to present these proposals in more detail in the discussions in the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would also ask you to speak on behalf of the applicants as a representative of the applicants of Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome the support declared by almost all the clubs, almost all the Members present today, for the proposed direction of amending this law, and thus the change of optics and enlargement, a significant extension of the area of activity of the dialogue centre. Although not all clubs seem to have spoken today. As far as specifics are concerned, if not for the fact that we are in a time of tragic barbaric war at our borders, it would be funny that a representative of a group, who somehow is the heir of the Soviet PZPR party, is looking for some modern-day imaginary cooperation, supposedly conducted with Russia. Let us remember that a very important representative of this group spoke recently about the Red Army, that it had liberated Poland. Somehow it is so strange that when the Russians fight, they invade Ukraine, then it is noticed, and if the Russians, the Bolsheviks murdered Poles, it was sometimes presented - by communist communities always, and sometimes post-communist - as the liberation of Poland. On the other hand, I welcome the importance of cooperation in the field of culture in Central and Eastern Europe and Eastern Europe. Indeed, culture is an area in which we should particularly strive to work together in Eastern Europe. As for relations with Lithuania, of course not everything is yet as it should be, but Polish-Lithuanian relations are much better in recent years, among others. - which I could personally check in Polish-Lithuanian talks - thanks to the meetings that you held in Lithuania Marshal Marek Kuchciński. Indeed, Mr.Tomasz Sommer has done very important things on the road to reminding Poles - victims of the anti-Polish Russian operation from 1937-1938. These were also monographs, and editions of sources, and reports of witnesses, those who survived despite such a hecatomba, victims of the Russian genocide on Poles. But that doesn't mean that other historians aren't taking on the subject. It is being undertaken by representatives of the dialogue centre present here today. The institution is already, so that we are not creating a new one. There are other well-deserved institutions in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, such as the Eastern Studies Centre or the Eastern Europe Study of the University of Warsaw, but of course their business formula is different. On the other hand, the centre of dialogue is the institution which should and must take on more extensive activities in Europe, as well as the impact and activity of Poland in Central and Eastern Europe. After all, this is generally the case: strengthening the Polish openness to Eastern Europe and our Eastern policy, cooperation on equal rights with the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. It is also a return to the Jagiellonian idea mentioned here, I think that also Władysław IV Vasa, or the patron of this year, the great writer Józef Mackiewicz, as well as Jerzy Giedroyc, Juliusz Mieroszewski, Leon Wasilewski, but above all, Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Once again, thank you very much to all the Members who took part in this discussion and also to the Minister. I believe that the various themes, topics, some of which may be specifically taken to give rise to a discussion, such as the patronage of a possible centre or the Kazakh issue, will be very useful for further work, because I think we will be working on this amendment, on this law at the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Media. So that I thank you all once again and thank you also to the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u318	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and certain other laws, contained in print No 2121, to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Supplementary request for referral to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.]] But in addition, sir? [[Plus.]] Then we shall settle this in the vote at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the Labour Inspector's report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 together with the position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social and Family Policy (prints No 1356 and 1550). I kindly ask the Chief Labour Inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko to submit a report. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020. For years, the State Labour Inspection has sought to protect the workers and ensure their safe and lawful employment conditions. However, 2020 was a year of pandemic challenges, which the State Labour Inspection also had to undertake to pursue its core mission, but also to become an important element of the state in a system to reduce the level of risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection in workplaces and all other places where workers can be exposed to coravirus infection. In 2020 labour inspectors carried out a total of over 56 thousand. control. Some of them were implemented in order to ensure adequate health and safety at work for workers during the pandemic. In this respect, we have checked almost 16 thousand. operators and almost half of them inspectors have found irregularities. Our actions in reducing the effects of SARS-CoV-2 concerned the organisation of workplaces, the provision of personal protective equipment and the proper implementation of remote work solutions. Due to the limited competence to issue legal remedies in the event of non-compliance with the requirements to reduce exposure to virus infection, in 462 cases, we informed the competent authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. It is worth noting that employers aware of the risks posed by coronavirus infection have mostly equipped workers with appropriate protection measures to combat the epidemic. Since mid-March 2020, schools have mainly been teaching in a remote formula, so the return of pupils to schools since 1 September of this year has put a new challenge before the State Labour Inspection. The aim was to ensure safe and hygienic conditions for school stays, including reducing the risk of coravirus infection to a minimum, which is why we launched a school prevention programmeSafely, which supported employers in identifying and reducing hazardous, harmful and burdensome factors in the working environment. During the implementation of this programme, the labour inspectors carried out nearly 6 000 in schools. training for 49,000 education workers. Inspectors cared about the quality and proper parameters of respiratory protection products, i.e. masks, which were still recently in widespread use. At the request of the National Tax Administration, labour inspectors issued opinions on the fulfilment or non-compliance of the essential requirements of various types of personal protective equipment. Only in customs clearance places did the National Labour Inspection inspectors assess 385 products. In total, they issued as many as 295 negative opinions, thus holding back the entry to the Polish and European markets of products and products not meeting the requirements set out in the EU directives. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly 35% of the controls carried out in 2020 were initiated as a result of the complaints being received. They mainly concerned issues related to the non-payment of wages and other benefits resulting from the employment relationship. A large part of them involved irregularities resulting from the employment relationship, as well as problems of working time and working conditions and the legality of employment. Of course, it's close to 50,000. complaints are bothering us because there was too much to report when it comes to not respecting employees' rights. Their number was influenced, among others. increasing awareness of citizens' rights and obligations. Importantly, such awareness also grew among foreigners coming to Poland for commercial purposes. The fact that labour inspectors found nearly 37 000 in 2020 was an example of the irregularities revealed. Indictments, they've issued 160 health and safety decisions, nearly 4,000. wage decisions, 9,000. Commands and nearly 160,000. applications and submissions. It is also worth noting that the actual reduction in control activities resulting from the pandemic has allowed us to focus our actions on other areas. I mean broadly understood counseling conducted by employees of the State Labour Inspection. In 2020 our employees gave a total of over 533 thousand. Legal and technical advice has been provided, with nearly 220 000 during the control activities. tips. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as controls carried out in 2020 are concerned, as much as 11 000. of which were found to be in breach of the provisions on the payment of salaries and other benefits resulting from the employment relationship. Inspectors spent almost 4,000. decisions ordering the payment of remuneration for 29 000. employees. The amount of remuneration recovered exceeded PLN 78 million. In 2020 we carried out 857 checks on compliance with working time rules. They showed a similar pattern as in the previous year. The scale of non-compliance with the 5-day working week principle remained worrying. This type of irregularity was found in every fifth check. In addition, labour inspectors carried out checks on compliance with the prohibition of civil law contracts under conditions indicating the existence of employment relationships. We've checked nearly 25,000 in total. civil law agreements. I'm talking about both contract contracts and contract contracts. More than 2,000 have been questioned. agreements, but I must point out here that sometimes people employed under civil law contracts were not interested in changing the basis for their employment. The objective of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 was also to monitor employers' compliance with restrictions on commercial activities on Sundays and holidays. The fact that we have not identified a single infringement in large-area establishments during the reporting period should be considered a success. However, a significant problem was the use by smaller trading facilities of the provisions of the Act on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and the operation on those days against the intentions of the legislator. This phenomenon increased in 2021, when large-area networks also started using similar solutions. This has led to the need to amend the law which entered into force on 1 February 2022 and has largely resolved this issue. Providing workers with safe, hygienic working conditions is part of every check. The inspection has resulted in the elimination of direct life and health threats for more than 38 000. persons. Measurements of health-related factors were carried out at locations where nearly 20,000 people worked. persons. We have eliminated irregularities in personal protective equipment. The right funds were received from employers almost 18 thousand. persons. As a result of the implementation of our decisions for 240 thousand. persons have been properly assessed for occupational risks. The intervention of labour inspectors also provided 33 thousand. staff carrying out health and safety training. Unfortunately, often failure to comply with health and safety rules ended in 2020 with accidents. Inspectors examined the circumstances and causes of as many as 1755 accidents that killed 217 people. The analysis of the audit data shows, as in previous years, that the two most vulnerable industries are construction and processing. In the reporting year we carried out almost 3,000. control on construction sites, mainly during the construction of new buildings and during renovations. I must stress that irregularities were found in 91% control of operators in the industry. The most irregularities occurred at the stage of organizing construction works, earthworks and above all work at height. It is still an extremely important area of activity of the State Labour Inspection to disclose cases of illegal work, both in the case of Polish citizens and foreigners. In 2020, almost 67 000 checks on the legality of employment were carried out. Polish citizens. There's been an illegal employment of almost 9,000. persons. That's 13%. of the public covered by the checks. In 2020 we also carried out more than 4 000. checks on the legality of employment 19 000 foreigners working in our country. The allocation of illegal work was found to be close to 15% controlled aliens. Most illegally employed foreigners, close to 85%, came from Ukraine. In the context of checks on the legality of employment, the state of compliance with labour law rules vis-à-vis foreigners was also checked. The most irregularities concerned the lack of required medical examinations and health and safety training, non-payment of salaries, non-compliance with working time rules. These are very important facts, especially in the context of the current events in Ukraine and the acceptance by Poland of millions of citizens of this country fleeing the war. Many of them will or have already taken up a job in our country. We must do everything we can not to make them victims of exploitation. In many respects checks on the legality of employment of foreigners are linked to checks carried out in employment agencies. As far as such entities are concerned, there has been a slight decrease in the number of irregularities detected. However, it should be stressed that almost 60% of the audited entities still violated the rules on the provision of employment agencies services. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The labour inspection shall seek to prevent abuse of labour law and accidents at work through its training and advisory activities. In 2020 to nearly 1 000. In recent years, we have addressed an invitation to the accident prevention programme. As in previous years, a programme for micro-entrepreneurs concerned with the safety of employed persons was being implemented.Get a diploma from the State Labour Inspection. The participation was declared by 337 companies. I mentioned construction through control prism, but for the industry with such a high accident rate we also offer an educational program ŻBudowa. Stop accidents! As part of the implementation of the programmes in 2020, the training of employers and entrepreneurs often took place directly on construction sites. More than 2 000 participated. entities. We have distributed more than 11 000 among the participants. copies, specialist building publications. All these publications are also available in electronic version on our website. The next programme is a culture of security. It is addressed to secondary school pupils, young people employed - for vocational training as well as students. In 2020, more than 50 000 took part in labour law classes in more than 600 educational establishments throughout the year. students. Ladies and gentlemen! The State Labour Inspection worked closely with all public administrations in 2020, with local authorities at all levels, supervisory authorities and control of working conditions, other institutions, as well as research and research institutions in 2020. Our priorities were focused on the implementation of programme tasks and conclusions and recommendations that brought parliamentary debates, meetings of the Committee on State Control, the Labour Council and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Due to the pandemic situation, international contacts were limited during the reporting year. There was only one plenary session of the Senior Labour Inspectors Committee. During a video conference involving the Chief Labour Inspector, a manual was approved for the training of occupational health and safety inspectors in relation to the work equipment used by workers, and the SLIC opinion on the future priorities of the European Union in the area of health and safety and the contribution to the renewed European Union strategy on health and safety at work was adopted. For 2020 there was also an initial period for the existence of the European Labour Office as a body of the European Union for the cross-border mobility of workers. Our experts were actively involved in the work of a working group on inspection of this office, which has developed, among others. Model documents for the introduction of joint and agreed cross-border controls. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The year 2020 was for everyone a fitness test of the state and its organs. From today's perspective, we can say that the National Labour Inspection, like the whole society, has met new challenges during the pandemic. It was a test time for everyone. Today we know that even in critical situations, state institutions, including the State Labour Inspection, have been able to act unconventionally, interact with other partners and institutions in difficult conditions while fulfilling their statutory obligations. The inspection had to adapt its action plan efficiently to the new circumstances in such a way as to continue to support workers and partners for employers. I believe that the presented results of the State Labour Inspection confirm its effectiveness in carrying out the assigned tasks and its important role in ensuring safe working conditions for workers, including conditions limiting the risk of coronavirus infection. I would like to thank all the labour inspectors and inspection staff for their commitment, dedication and great dedication in carrying out their tasks. I know that the greatest force of inspection is aware of the mission of workers who have great satisfaction when they can effectively support, advise, but also prevent an accident. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u320	Thank you very much. Your marshal thank you very much, Inspector. Your marshal kindly asks the Chairman of the Labour Protection Council of Janusz Śniadek to present the position of the Labour Protection Council. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In the meantime, there's been a change. Don't worry. Thank you very much again. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Madam Chief Inspector! High Izbo! Position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 The Labour Protection Council at its meeting on 20 July 2021 took note of the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020. The document was presented by the chief labour inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko and her deputy Jarosław Leśniewski and Dariusz Mińkowski. During the reporting year 56 000 were carried out by labour inspectors. control at 48,000. entities employing a total of 3 million people. Nearly 35% of the checks carried out were so-called. complaints checks to verify the validity of employee complaints affecting labour inspections. These were mainly related to problems with the payment of wages and other employment benefits, irregularities in working time, working conditions and safety, employment relationships and the legality of employment. In addition, the labour inspection was carried out, among others. checks on the implementation of the obligations to prevent the spread of Coronavirus and the measures taken by the workplace to ensure an adequate level of health and safety at work during the epidemic. The State Labour Inspection also examined the correctness of the conclusion of civil law contracts and fixed-term contracts. The implementation of the obligation to pay a minimum wage for persons working under civil law contracts, compliance with the rules on restrictions on trade on Sundays and holidays and other days, the legality of employment of Polish citizens and foreigners and the correctness of the functioning of the employment agencies were checked. In addition, the labour inspection carried out comprehensive checks on labour law compliance, including health and safety at work. in construction, which has been subject to increased supervision by the State Labour Inspection for years. Inspectors also examined the circumstances and causes of 1755 accidents at work - including 138 collective accidents - in which 217 people were killed. Construction and industrial processing dominate among the most accidental industries. Last year's audits revealed 36,5,000. misdemeanors against employee rights. Inspectors spent over 160,000. health and safety decisions, nearly 4 000. wage decisions, about 9,000. Commands and 157,000. applications included in the speeches. This appropriation is The State Labour Inspection carried out 768 so-called. the first checks, i.e. typical preventive checks, carried out on an audit basis and on an assumption, unless gross irregularities are detected, of non-sanctioned checks. In 2020, the first audit strategy included previously uncontrolled micro-enterprises employing up to nine employees and small establishments employing between 10 and 49 employees who operate on the market for no more than 1 year. In almost all cases, inspectors have found various types of irregularities which force the application of appropriate legal measures in the form of decisions, requests in speeches or orders. As a result of last year's inspection and supervision activities of the State Labour Inspection, more than 30,000. employees received outstanding salaries and other benefits from the employment relationship for a total amount of nearly PLN 43 million, and 456 persons working under a contract or a contract for the provision of services, for which the minimum hourly rate provisions were infringed, received claims for an amount of 698 000. zł. It's been made up of 7.5. thousands. employment contracts with persons who have previously worked under civil law agreements or without a written agreement. A direct threat to life or health has also been eliminated in relation to nearly 40,000. persons. In parallel with the control and supervision activities of the State Labour Inspection, the State Labour Inspection carried out a multi-directional preventive and promotional activity, including inter alia. prevention campaigns, competitions aimed at a maximum number of people providing work, as well as employers responsible for ensuring safe and hygienic working conditions for workers. The labour inspection also carried out extensive counselling activities, including through the PIP Advisory Centre, providing over 533 000 during the reporting year. legal and technical advice. Their subject matter hasn't changed in years. The greatest interest concerns counseling on employment relations, wages and working time. The Labour Protection Council highly assesses the control and surveillance activities and preventive activities of the State Labour Inspection conducted in 2020, difficult in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is all the more important to appreciate the commitment and determination of labour inspectors in enforcing labour law rules, in order to improve safety standards, health and health at work. The Council considers it appropriate to consider the possibilities proposed by the State Labour Inspection for changes to Labour Law, which will enable inspectors to carry out controls more effectively and eliminate bureaucratic barriers to their operation. Meeting the challenges of today's labour market requires employment in the labour inspection of highly qualified inspectors, especially with higher technical education. However, the level of remuneration offered by the PIP is the main barrier to acquiring new workers. The Council was concerned about the state of employment and wages in labour inspections, which are significantly lower than the average salary in the country. The Council notes that the continuation of this situation with the increasing number of new tasks each year may lead to the collapse of the offices due to the departure of workers and the lack of possibility of acquiring new ones. The Council is in favour of strengthening the staff and financial capacity of the State Labour Inspection. Real wage increases and an increase in the number of labour inspectors will allow the State Labour Inspection to adequately respond to the current and future challenges of new technologies and forms of labour supply. The Labour Protection Council welcomes the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 and recommends its adoption to the Sejm. He signed the Chairman of the Labour Protection Council. I would also like to add my sincere thanks to this report for the entire staff of the State Labour Inspection with its leadership and submit it to the Minister, the Chief Labour Inspector of Łażewska-Hrycko. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would very much like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Inspector! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the report presented by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020, print No 1356, together with the position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020. After consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above report to the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration on 30 June 2021. The work of the two Joint Committees was just a report by the Chief Labour Inspector on the inspection activities in 2020. This is an extremely important document, although after the end of the next year of our country's struggle with new waves of pandemics and recent events beyond our eastern border and the massive influx of refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine, many of the claims and conclusions contained in this report should nevertheless be treated in historical terms. Nevertheless, in order to appreciate the value of the work done by inspection workers in this difficult first year of pandemic, I would first like to quote a few facts and associated figures. In 2020, labour inspectors carried out more than 56 thousand. controls in entities employing a total of 3 million people. More than 1/3 of these checks were reactions to complaints concerning, above all, problems with the payment of wages for work. The controls carried out in 2020 revealed more than 36 000. misdemeanors against employee rights. Inspectors spent over 160,000. health and safety decisions, nearly 4 000. wage decisions and about 9,000. Commands, 157,000. applications included in the speeches. As a result of the inspection and supervision activities of the State Labour Inspection, more than 30,000. employees received outstanding salaries and other benefits from the employment relationship for a total amount of nearly PLN 43 million. The employees of the State Labour Inspection have passed the exam perfectly during this difficult period. The year 2020 has made it clear to all of us how much this institution needs and what important tasks it does. I join the voice of the Chief Labour Inspector and on behalf of the two Joint Committees, but I think that, on behalf of the whole Sejm, I would once again like to thank the staff of the State Labour Inspection for their daily dedication to the service and their willingness to face the difficult challenges of everyday life. All the more so as current challenges are increasingly demanding and do not yet find precedent. I am referring here to a huge wave of refugees coming into our country from Ukraine in connection with the Russian armed aggression against this country. They are in a situation which may result in an increased risk of exploitation. So before the State Labour Inspection another very important and extremely responsible task: to ensure that Polish employers of refugees provide them with decent working conditions. On behalf of both committees, i.e. After considering this report together with the position of the Labour Protection Council at its meeting of 15 September 2021, the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, I would ask the High Sejm to accept the printing report No 1356. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u324	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Wojciech Sharama from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and ask you to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, after reading this report and the position of the Labour Protection Council and the positions of the Joint Committee, will vote in favour of the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 were already unusual for me to say. COVID has led to extreme situations in many workplaces and these controls, which have been carried out so far, have yet to obtain an additional aspect related to compliance with anti-COVID regulations. It was a new obligation for labour inspectors to do so, and it can be said that it not only kept the health of workers, but also gained the functioning of the Polish economy, because many companies did not have to close down, it did not need to reduce business activity so dramatically that, for example. production has stopped. Here, the activities of the State Labour Inspection should be assessed particularly highly. As far as the rest of the activities of the State Labour Inspection are concerned, the number of these checks, their results, etc., have already been discussed in the speech by Mr Sniadek and Mrs Bożena Borys-Szopa, so I do not want to repeat myself. It's a good job done. Minister! I would like to thank you very much and all the employees of the State Labour Inspection for your commitment, for the results of your work. As I said at the outset, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this report. Thank you (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u326	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Inspector! The report presented to the High House by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 contains a number of information on the activities of inspections during the year covered by this report. An in-depth analysis of the document presented makes it possible to formulate the following conclusions. Firstly, it should be pointed out with all determination that the work of inspectors is a great deal of heavy responsibilities, the implementation of which is aimed at helping workers, to help people. The enforcement of extremely sensitive and important labour law regulations for Poles and Poles is being implemented continuously and reliably, which is presented by the main labour inspector. Thanks to the proper implementation of these tasks, workers are protected by proper protection, which ensures that their rights are secured, protects working conditions and, in some situations, even the lives of workers whose rights are violated. This appropriation is The State Labour Inspection carried out almost 57 thousand. control. Over 11,000. the audit confirmed the breaches of the rules on payment of salaries and other benefits resulting from the employment relationship. During the reporting year, a large number of entities were checked against the prohibition of civil law contracts under conditions indicating the existence of an employment relationship. As a result, more than 2 000 were questioned. agreements out of 25,000. civil law contracts subject to scrutiny. In addition, the inspection examined the circumstances and causes of as many as 1755 accidents in which 217 people were killed. These figures form the core of the work of the State Labour Inspection and, in the most illustrative way, represent to us the seriousness and rank of the activities and responsibilities that have been defined in the framework of the statutory mandate of the inspection. At this point we cannot overlook thanks for the work, for the efforts, for the dedication of inspectors who carry out the above mentioned. controls, because their commitment and professionalism are invaluable and deserve immense recognition. Secondly, the important conclusion of the report is that the State Labour Inspection which carries out its work activities related to labour law should itself be an institution which has no doubt as to its functioning. It should be recalled that the previous Chief Labour Inspector has set up a special internal control. Any information that mentions the results of this internal control indicates a number of irregularities. This is a confirmation of untruth in documents, anti-dating contracts, circumvention of recruitment procedures, nepotism, counterfeiting of business travel procedures, violation of working time and overtime. All the allegations cited above constitute a set of very serious and absolutely unacceptable phenomena that have occurred in recent years in the State Labour Inspection. In addition, it is unacceptable that the results of the internal control in question are not made public. All the issues mentioned above are due to loud media reports, information coming from inside the organisational structure of the inspection. It is reasonable that the internal document, which is a report from the Internal Audit Section, should be made available to the High House, as only its publicity will allow for a proper picture of the functioning of the State Labour Inspection. It should be stressed that a number of uncertainties regarding the content of the report and the thesis according to which its authors recommended the notification of the prosecution and the Central Anti-corruption Office to the extent that despite a number of positive things that I mentioned at the beginning and an invaluable contribution to the safety of Polish workers and Poles, there is no way to agree on a positive assessment of the inspection activities. In view of the huge doubts about this area of operation of inspections on behalf of the Parliamentary Club (Dawn) the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, I request that the report of the State Labour Inspection be rejected for 2020. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u328	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adrian Zandberg, the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u329	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a constant source of astonishment to me that these reports, the reports of the State Labour Inspection, the High Chamber accepts with Olympic peace. After all, these data, data about accidents at work, about hundreds of people who lose their lives in the workplace in Poland, about the scandalous scale of irregularities that occur on the Polish labour market, should make our hair look like oak on our heads. Sometimes I think that if we listened to reports by the chief of fire department every year and this commander would come out and tell us that Poland is carrying a huge wave of fires, but only some of them are able to get to the cart because there are not enough cars, because the fire department pays very poorly, and in addition, the government imposed a legal framework that prevents them from using fire hoses and water effectively, we would ask ourselves here, in this room, whether we are dealing with rulers who are on the side of arsonists. For the record, I'm not just talking about this or another governing team, because this problem, the problem of the State Labour Inspection being underfunded, this problem that there are too few inspectors in the State Labour Inspection, this problem that as a result of the long-term starvation of employees of the State Labour Inspection, there are problems with recruitment, there are staff problems, this problem that inspectors are getting older, that there are not enough technical staff to control the construction and ensure the real safety of construction work, that is not the problem that occurred this year, 2 years ago, 3 years ago. If you look at the reports of the next major inspectors, it unfortunately passes year after year and decade after decade. It is, in my opinion, a burning accusation of the entire political class, which is the issue, the issue of occupational safety, the issue of the Polish state taking seriously the principles that it has set itself and announced that they are to be valid on the labour market... It does not present this story to the Polish political class of the best testimony. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, this data is devastating. The number of accidents, the number of people who have died in construction, industrial processing, the number of machines that have been inspected by inspectors, and these checks have shown that these machines should simply not function in the workplace because they are a threat to human life and health - this gives us a picture not of a country, as we would all like to think of ourselves, highly economically and socially, but a country at best semi-peripheral, if not like the standards of the countries of the global south rather than the countries of Western Europe and the countries of North Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finding irregularities at more than 90%. constructions on which labour inspectors enter means that we are dealing with an entire industry which simply mocks the Polish state and with the principles which the Polish state has stated are to apply, but is unable to enforce them. There were a lot of optimistic words on the right side of the ruling supermarkets, but the audit reports show that irregularities regarding time fixing, the keeping of working time records, the late payment of wages and many, many other issues in the large area, and there is a lack of courage that even this elementary repair of the bill waited so long before the High House finally accepted them. Unfortunately, these billion-dollar corporations are not afraid to break labour law, because penalties are ridiculously low, because the powers of inspection are so limited that, forgive me, Inspector, often from their perspective inspection is just a paper tiger that you don't have to be afraid of. And that's what needs to be changed. There are laws that have been made by the coalition club of the Left, which are waiting to be examined, laws that increase the powers of inspectors. We will make further proposals that will give inspectors a stronger whip in their hand so that they can really present to these large entities a very simple message that the Polish State takes seriously the principles which it has written in the Labour Code, because it is really high time (the bell) for us to do so, ladies and gentlemen. And one last thing about staffing problems. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't start paying more inspectors, every year it's an effective security check on construction sites, and not just on construction sites, it's gonna get worse and worse. We've got technical personnel in inspection who are going to enter and enter retirement age. Because of those held for many years at too low wage levels, you cannot expect that your inspector will be able to replace them with new, competent employees who will be able to seriously and not only on paper, make sure that on Polish construction sites and other workplaces it is safe in Poland. We need radically, ladies and gentlemen, to increase the budget of the State Labour Inspection, to ensure that we give the inspectors more tools to carry out their statutory duties. And it's about time we finally did it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u330	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jan Łopa, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u331	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Inspector! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the opinion on the report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. High Seym! The previous report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection was discussed during the session of the Sejm on 17 March 2021. It included the activities of the State Labour Inspection for years - Attention - 2018 and 2019. I remind you, that was March 2021. At that time, I asked why it did not include 2020 and, in my opinion, it could and should have been. I don't know if this is the result of any technical problems or neglecting the institution or ignoring the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's not on my side, it's not on me, it's not on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on me, it's on It's a very serious issue that I'm about to try to prove. What is the significance of pointing out errors, improprieties, shortcomings from the perspective of 3 years? After all, in such a sensitive area as safety and health at work, one can strive to improve, one must react quickly, immediately. A concrete example and, I think, shocking - at least in my mind - from the current report. Dear Minister, in your introduction to the report, you wrote about the uniqueness of 2020 in the activities of the State Labour Inspection. I agree that we all agree that this year was exceptional and that the approved work programme of the State Labour Inspection had to lose weight because labour inspectors were needed for other tasks, many of which had the cost of human health and life, as you have written, I quote literally, and these are strong words, but supported, I understand, shocking also for me, I repeat once again, by example. In 2020, labour inspectors, among others. they controlled imported to Poland products and measures related to the reduction of the spread of the virus and the fight against epidemics. They assessed 385 batches of products at customs clearance points and issued negative opinions in 295 cases. This is shocking data, 77%. the negative views of the State Labour Inspection. 295 cases per 385 lots of products. Therefore, among others. I ask for deadlines for reporting. After all, this is very sensitive and important information. Therefore, I am immediately asking and asking for a reply, I think in writing, because it will probably be difficult to reply now, which parts of the products they were and whether there has been a further review of the handling of these products, whether conclusions and consequences have been drawn as far as importers are concerned. I ask for detailed information, because, given the world's tendencies regarding diseases, there is no guarantee that someone again on boobs, risking the health of Poles, will not want to make money, saying ugly. High Izbo! As at the end of 2020, 2660 people were employed in the State Labour Inspection, including 1486 persons in inspectors' positions. This is a very experienced staff, which I would like to thank on behalf of the club and my own heartfelt thanks for performing the tasks, all the more so as these tasks arrive. Every year they arrive, we know that, but here we should mention a whole range of tasks resulting from the declared epidemic in Poland. In this difficult year, inspectors carried out a total of 56 371 inspections, on this occasion signalling the illegal phenomenon of remote work. This, too, is a very valuable and important remark resulting from this report, because this is an important subject. I think this is a matter that needs to be dealt with quickly, because such a character so-called. remote work will be in my opinion (the bell) spread. Finally, I would also like to emphasise the great effort made by the State Labour Inspection in terms of prevention and promotion of health protection. Despite numerous pandemic restrictions, the percentage of employers who passed the examination check has remained high. This demonstrates the effectiveness of preventive measures. Thank you for this effort and thank you for listening to my report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u332	Thank you very much, sir. [[Thank you very much.]] I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u333	Inspector! God bless you. It's a report on 2020, so it's still a nice start. You performed as a cog, or rather a large mode, in this machine of oppression, training and terror of the Polish people under the pretext of fighting for public health. Inspectors, what you boasted about, walked around Poland and harassed simple, good, hardworking people. If a mask slipped off someone's nose, they couldn't put the tickets themselves, but almost $0.5,000. The reports went to the GIS - that is in this report. It's a disgrace, Inspector, disgrace and terrible sadness, because you have such a feeling that you do what you need to do, you have such a feeling that this is some standard, professional ethics, and you've been involved in the role of subcontractors, harassing gestapoists, who are trying to push these rules into the head of a poor nation to accept the new normality that Prime Minister Morawiecki has proclaimed here from this stand. [[Mr Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Did the Member say...]] ¿Solidarity betrayed, trade unions wrote only letters, wrote here, to the High House, to the committee that it was all right, when the current majority, the violent parliamentary majority, the united coalition of COVID, tried to get employers to enforce this regime. I'll recommend your publications, and there are hundreds of them, thousands of them, research papers published in reputable magazines highlighting the problem of the masking force, highlighting the opposite effect of the masking force. I will now present my question and please answer in writing. On what grounds did you question the people of this ridiculous, unlawful, non-medical and substantive imperative of witchcraft? Answer me that. It was 2020. In 2021 and 2022, there are some signs of healing. 3 days ago in Lublin, I participated in a disciplinary officer of a librarian's teacher whose curatorship threatens to be fired for unmasked. And there - bravo - was the opinion of the PIP, because so popularly the Polish people call the company, a positive statement to the teacher (the bell) that it was not a violation of the standards that should result in... [[Time's up.]] ...so dangerous consequences. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u334	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u335	So you have to answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr President, I know you will not pay attention to this, but I, as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, must draw attention to this. Please don't ever use such a statement as to harass people like gestapos with regard to civil servants, employees of the State Labour Inspection. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Bravo, Marshal!]] This should never have happened. [[As it happens, during the occupation, Mr. Marshal, the PIP was subject to...]] Thank you very much. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: What are you talking about? Read the inspection history.]] You're welcome, Miss Hanna Gill-Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to you: do not respond. If we thought something wise had been said... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: That's not right, Marshal.]] ...so we're in the Confederacy, and we're not. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u337	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! More than 17 million people are employed in Poland, and only a little more than 40 thousand are controlled. agreements per year. It is quite small scale, but this control and work of the State Labour Inspection inspectors is simply extremely necessary, therefore in our programme as Poland 2050 we are calling for the strengthening of the State Labour Inspection. It is significant that in this key institution there are about the same number of people employed as in IPN, and its budget is much smaller than IPN. Therefore, as Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, we tabled such an amendment to the budget for 2022, so that 50 million PLN more went to the point where inspectors could work under good and decent conditions. Unfortunately, this amendment is gone. We will submit it every year, and I promise you here already. In our view, it is also important to consider the submission of the State Labour Inspection to the government, not to the Sejm, as other supervisory institutions - perhaps one day in the Sejm we will consider this - such as the Chief Building Supervision Authority, the Trade Inspection, the Environmental Protection Inspection. These are all institutions that are governed by the government, not by the Sejm. On the other hand, the law on the rules and criteria for the selection of different forms of employment should be sufficiently clear and clear to all concerned so that any infringements can ultimately be corrected by simply administrative decision of inspectors. That would make it a lot easier for them to work. As Poland 2050, we also propose changes in anti-mobbing legislation to facilitate workers who are victims of mobbing to investigate their rights on the civil and administrative path. Here, the counter-mobbing should be one of the priorities of the State Labour Inspection. Another thing that would make life easier for inspectors is the effective protection of whistleblowers, i.e. those who simply inform about abuse. Now it is very often the case that employees who want to make an application are later exposed to some restrictions or harassment. Here we would propose that inspectors make life easier for the future. It'll be Labor Day in a few days. On this occasion, I wish both the National Labour Inspection Inspectors and employees, regardless of the form in which they work, because many of the workers are actually self-employed in Poland, and here this kind of work inspection does not control, decent conditions and decent pay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u338	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 13 Members have submitted to the question. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchonia, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u339	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Inspector! High Izbo! When we are debating safety at work, during this debate we are very happy to talk about Polish companies and of course we are right that the work should be done in accordance with the applicable regulations, it is clear. But it was the job inspection that was publicly reported that it was there that the documents were anti-dated, they were employed by acquaintances, nepotism reigned, there were higher salaries for the boss' favorites, or there was a reward granted to themselves, not to mention the allegations of mobbing, even in Opole. It seems that the inspector's presentation of this information should have started with these cases. Therefore, I ask you in writing now to respond to these allegations, this information, whether something has changed in the inspection, whether it has been resolved and whether these pathologies have been corrected. The second question concerns the control of state institutions. What percentage of control was involved in the state units (the Bell), and what were their results? Has this inspection been carried out at the Sejm Chancellery, because we all see that the rights of employees in Parliament may be violated...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u340	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u341	...and in the Polish Air Navigation Agency, where cases of mobbing have been reported? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u342	Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! Inspector! High Izbo! Today, on 28 April 2022, we are celebrating the World Day of Safety and Health at Work announced by the International Labour Organisation. This year it is celebrated after the slogan: Security Culture - a common matter. This is about employee participation and the role of social dialogue in creating a culture of occupational safety. And it is good that this debate is taking place here today on this very day. It's such a beautiful buckle that day. The State Labour Inspection has faced completely different challenges during the reporting period, challenges that were not before and we have not dealt with them. Dear Inspector! In view of this short time, I would like to thank you very warmly for your work and cooperation, as well as for the contribution of the National Labour Inspection Inspectors in Bydgoszcz (Dzinek), with whom I have the honour and pleasure to cooperate. On the other hand, I have a question for the joint committee. Everything's fine and beautiful today, but what's next with the low wages at the State Labour Inspection? In the State Labour Inspection, the budget is much lower than in the IPN. Shouldn't we all be in this room for the embarrassment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u344	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u345	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Chief Inspector, We have heard a lot in this Chamber about the state of compliance with labour law, labour rights. That the situation isn't great, we already know that, so I'm not gonna ask that. On the other hand, I would like to ask you what you expect now in the context of the war in Ukraine and thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands, not to say millions, possible new workers and workers from Ukraine already working in our country or those who will work in our country. My question is whether they will have exactly the same rights as Polish employees to claim before courts. And even if so, do you foresee any information published in Ukrainian (Dawn) so that people know that they know what their legal situation is, where they can look for help? And in general how do you see the impact of this situation on respect for workers' rights in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the invitation that the inspector sent, among other things. to the parliamentarians on the solemn conference of 11 March this year. organized in one of Warsaw's hotels under a particular motto, I quote: Summary of the year of activity of the State Labour Inspection under my direction. Apart from the fact that this was not the right time, because it was an absolutely pandemic, nor was it the right place for such events, that it was a party financed from the budget of the State Labour Inspection, which is, as everyone here has emphasized, very modest - I have signaled my doubts before and many people share these opinions - I would like to ask the inspector the following question: What have you done for labour inspectors this year to improve their working conditions or the atmosphere at the office? I ask for a specific answer and at least three such points. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Zielińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection for 2020 states that during the reporting year, inspectors carried out 15 inspections in mines and companies providing mining services. In the context of recent tragic events in the mines of Pnowówek and Zofiówka I would like to ask about the conclusions of these checks. I am particularly interested in proposals on worker safety issues, monitoring the operation of methane sensors and early response to irregularities, decision-making processes to withdraw or leave crew work in the face of shocks and generally compliance with safety procedures. So where were the inspections carried out? Were similar checks also carried out in 2021? What were the main conclusions and did the management of the plants implement the audit proposals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u351	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Before today's debate I made some calls, talked to the employees of the State Labour Inspection in the field, who are dealing with checks, asking what the situation on the labour market is now, what are the social expectations, what are the expectations of employers. You know, the biggest problem I've ever heard of is not small businesses, it's corporations. In the construction market it is a subcontractor to a subcontractor, where it is actually difficult to identify the relevant entity that creates the working conditions concerned. And in large corporations - the famous case of a German who threatened Poles and Poles - is a legal problem. And here I would appeal for more training for employees, a greater legal support, because it is very difficult (the Bell) for them to meet the conditions created by employers, especially in large corporations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u353	Dear Marshal, High - almost empty - Izbo! I don't think there is an institution more needed in Poland than the State Labour Inspection. These poor working conditions are what brings together problems in areas such as health, transport, culture and education. Every dollar handed over to the National Labour Inspection is worth it. Unfortunately, the report makes it clear that the institution is still not taken seriously as it deserves. The number of inspectors and inspectors is still too small and, consequently, too few checks have been carried out. In recent days, we have learned how the population of Polish cities has increased after refugees arrived. Warsaw population increased by 15% and Rzeszowa by 53%. All these people will be particularly vulnerable to labour market failures. It is worth remembering when we will soon be discussing this year's budget. The State Labour Inspection must receive far more money. Without decent work, we will never build a true democracy (the bell) and today we build it not only for ourselves, but also with the Ukrainians and Ukrainians. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u355	The National Labour Inspection has boasted that it has done a lot of hard work and, unfortunately, a lot of unnecessary and even harmful work. I know that there are Members among my previous speakers who would like to whip entrepreneurs who would like the State Labour Inspection to come on the signal to measure the 1.5 m gap between workers, or those who believe that this is the most necessary institution in Poland, like Mr Sterczewski. It's bad enough that there are companies, it's important that you have someone to control the companies, it's the most important institution. But unfortunately, it seems to me that the more senseless the recipe, the more zealous it is to check it out. Shopping Sundays, checking masks, washing hands in workplaces. Instead of checking the legality of these laws, instead of protecting workers from these illegal laws, the country stubbornly controlled whether they were sitting 1.5 m apart. I would like to point out that the more checks, the more illegal employment: 10% in 2018 , 11% in 2019 (The bell), in 2020 13% So I guess it doesn't bring the expected results. Perhaps it is the fact that it is not the number of checks that determines this, but the number of meaningless rules, or that, for example. The pointless increase in the minimum wage simply has to end. So I'm considering the idea that maybe this isn't the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam Chief Inspector! How different our parliamentarians view labour rights and the protection of these workers' rights. I wanted to thank you very much for the work that the inspectors in the field did in a very difficult, pandemic year, in 2020. On the other hand, on the occasion that you are here, Inspector, I would like to ask you about the present, the situation that we are currently going with in our country. We have almost 3 million war refugees who are probably looking for work on our market. The Polish government has opened up the labour market, facilitated employment, but I would like to ask how the labour inspection and the tools at its disposal have been prepared for this difficult situation. It is probably one of many government institutions, organizations that will have to cope with this difficult situation on the labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u359	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! Indeed, 2020 was a special year. This must be clearly said and looked at through the prism of all the checks that you have carried out, 56 000. control. Many comments, many of the conclusions that have come out of them, show how much this government has to do to straighten things out and bring about a normal functioning. Indeed, in 2020. Poland faced a pandemic with COVID, but this year is another special year, Minister. About 3 million Ukrainians, refugees, came to Poland, as we hear. In your report, you made it clear how many problems or shortcomings related to the employment (the bell) of foreigners were involved. I would like to ask you what the Chief Labour Inspector is preparing for 2022 in this case. What actions are you taking to avoid such unpleasant events and situations like those we may have been dealing with - we certainly have, because you spoke about it - in 2020? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Kostus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! In the club's opinion on this report, I referred to the internal control report, reminding you that it is not true in documents, anti-dating contracts, avoiding recruitment procedures, nepotism, falsifying business travel procedures or breaches of working time and overtime. Three short questions. Inspector, will this report finally be made public? Let me remind you that we have talked about this many times, we have pointed this out at, for example, the meetings of the State Audit Committee. Is it true that the authors of the report recommended that the prosecution and the Central Anti-corruption Office be notified? Finally, does the inspector confirm these allegations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Szarama, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to talk about another aspect of the work of the State Labour Inspection. In Katowice, in this delegation, educational activities are carried out, in a sense, training. This applies not only to employees, which is normal, but also to young people who are not yet working, who are studying in schools. Competitions on health and safety at work are organized, but competitions on knowledge about the region are organized. In 2020 there was a joint competition on health and safety at work and the history of Silesia, namely the Silesian uprising. That's when we celebrated their 100th anniversary. This is a very important element of activity and I think this is a completely natural thing. This should continue (the bell) in this context - health and safety regulations, etc., and at the same time the awareness of young people, where they are and what they should draw an example from. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Sněžek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The pandemic period has led to the rapid development of remote work. This has been noted in this report today. This phenomenon is becoming permanent. Many companies are aware of the economic benefits and the improvement of working conditions. I would like to ask the Minister how the labour inspection evaluates the state of development of this form of work today. What technical and legal conditions are needed for this work to bring satisfaction to both employees and employers in the future? I would also like to repeat, as it were, the previous speakers, to ask about this great challenge (the bell) which at the moment is the labour market open to refugees from Ukraine. What actions is the Chief Labour Inspector taking to ensure a level playing field for all, Poles and Ukrainians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u366	Thank you very much. I cordially invite the Chief Labour Inspector, Minister Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for all these praises regarding the substantive work of the institution, which I have the honour to direct. I think that even the doubts that arise about the operation of inspections do not affect the receipt of the hard work of inspectors. What you have stressed and what I would like to start with and for which I thank you: you see the need to strengthen the State Labour Inspection. As some of you have said in their speeches, the whole institution consists of an effort of about 2,700 employees, of which 1,500 are labour inspectors. We have 16 district labour inspectors, Chief Labour Inspector, and a training center. It is also a huge appreciation of the contribution of the work of every employee of the State Labour Inspection. Thank you very much for that. Of course, we are struggling with the recruitment of human resources. I don't think we're the only state institution that has a problem with that. We need financial reinforcement, especially in terms of recruitment of technical education workers. We have also proposed some legislative solutions. I hope that they will meet with your positive response in a short time. On the other hand, in more detail on the questions that have been raised here, I have actually chosen a topic that appears in most of the statements of the country that spoke, namely how the State Labour Inspection prepared for the influx of refugees from Ukraine and their impact on the labour market in Poland. The State Labour Inspection, remember, for many years it has already controlled issues concerning the legality of employment, as I have also said today in the context of the 2020 report, but the scale we are dealing with at this point in time, the scale of the influx of refugees, is definitely disproportionate to what we have had in previous years. At this moment from the data collected on the portal work. gov.pl shows that in Poland it was registered in the system as 90,000 employees. workers who have taken up employment under new rules, already in force since they crossed the border in connection with the war in Ukraine. 71% These are women, 74% hired on the basis of civil-law contracts. Most of this is employment. with simple work, some found employment in processing, some through temporary employment agencies. These are preliminary data. On the other hand, as regards how the State Labour Inspection refers to this subject, firstly, we have developed a strategy aimed at long-term action to support this sector of the labour market and these workers, but also entrepreneurs. We've divided our actions into two stages. The first, the one that is happening at this moment, is connected with the finding of Ukrainian citizens here, in the Polish reality. This is mainly about the information and education campaign that we are sending to entrepreneurs so that they know how correctly, how to employ a worker from Ukraine in accordance with the regulations. And here we have webinars, podcasts, training in cooperation also with labour offices, with local actors who work in the labour market. And the second part of this information-prevention campaign concerning Ukrainian citizens is addressed directly to Ukrainian citizens through legal advice, which is also available in Ukrainian and Russian. Here, the Member of the Commission, among others: That's what she asked. In every district labour inspector we have the opportunity to provide advice, there is also a helpline for foreigners, but mainly for Ukrainian citizens. We have also posted on our website in a special panel addressed to Ukrainian citizens information not only on the provisions of the speciality, but also on the Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions, as well as on how to move in the thicket of Polish law, translated into Ukrainian, also available in such a more visual version. Thus, here in fact, the labour inspection has prepared information materials that we provide to employees, but also interested persons can keep up to date with advice and information directly in the district labour inspectors and the Chief Labour Inspector in the Section of the National Labour Inspection Guidance Centre. On the other hand, on the basis of our experience, we also expect that the longer it lasts, the greater the likelihood that situations may arise in which the rights of workers from Ukraine will actually be violated. Therefore, we are also prepared to respond to such situations when requests for intervention, called complaints, will be made to us. We also have a procedure in place here that, if necessary, we will employ additional staff in our resources and jobs, who will be able to support us in the translation and control of this group of employees as well. I think that what is worth emphasising, because there were also such questions in this context, is the fact that workers who are foreigners have the right to the same treatment as workers, Polish citizens. This is clear from the provisions of the Labour Code: in the case of employment there is no possibility to differentiate the situation of workers due to, for example, nationality or other criteria, which are mentioned in c.p. Thus, in the case of employment on the basis of the employment relationship, the rights of workers of Ukraine must be similar to those of Polish citizens. I think it's in such a nutshell the most important information. The Authority has taken decisive action. From the beginning, right away, as soon as the situation happened, we were preparing. Here I address Mrs Mrzygłocka: the conference you mentioned was, among other things, a conference. on the preparation of the State Labour Inspection for the influx of an increased number of workers from Ukraine. On the other hand, there is also a question here about an issue that I am extremely interested in, which the labour inspection has really been on since the outbreak of the pandemic, but also in connection with the ongoing legislative work. Mr Sněžkou asked for remote work and what conditions should be met from the point of view of the State Labour Inspection so that the work can be carried out in a way that is in accordance with the rules, safe for workers. Legislative work on this issue is ongoing, they are taking place mainly in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and we, as an inspection, have also been very actively involved in it. What we are raising from the point of view of the State Labour Inspection is that there must be an aspect of health and safety at work at work even when it is done at home, because, as you have probably heard in the meantime, there are also accidents at work while working remotely. Unfortunately, these events were difficult, difficult for those workers who suffered an accident in their own home during remote work. In this respect, we also call for the legislation that is being made to cover the aspect of ensuring health and safety at work. This is extremely difficult because we move in space, which is the space of our own employee's apartment, and it requires a really new approach, one within which we train, inform, educate employees so as to prepare them for how to organize a workstation in a safe way. There was also a topic today - I look left-handed - that we have today's International Day of Remembrance for Victims of Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. I mention this because we really do not realize this, also with regard to remote work, how our behaviour affects how our health is later ruined, in short, because for example. We keep our laptop on our knees. The Labour Inspection calls for the inclusion in the scope of the regulation of remote work necessary regulations related to health and safety at work, including issues relating to mental health at work. The first studies that show up after remote work during the pandemic reveal additional psychosocial risks associated with remote work, which the labour inspection also draws attention to. This is in short, because the subject is actually extremely interesting. We assume that remote work will be a form that will remain with us, although it will be safer for employees to be a hybrid form, i.e. one that allows contact with a group of collaborators, social adaptation, support within a given workplace. What I would like to mention, perhaps not directly, answering the questions that you were also talking about, is that the labour inspection, like all areas involved in work, will have to face new challenges in the near future. Not only will it be remote work, but it will also be challenges related to artificial intelligence, technological change, work 4.0, transformation, which at the moment also occurs in the technological market, in the labour market. All of this affects the relationship between the employee and the employer and the labour inspection is already preparing for this at this point in time. Because it is not only a question of financial support, of staff support, but also answers to new challenges that we will all have to face because the labour market will change. As a result, we also participate as a State Labour Inspection in international work and labour inspection associations within the European Union. We will also hold a large international conference on how the State Labour Inspection, how inspections from different countries are to be found in a new reality. There's been a lot of talk about our preventive action, too, and I think that's the direction. For us, it's extremely important. I would very much like to thank all the committees and the Labour Protection Council here, but also the social partners who support us, who are involved in our preventive and promotional activities. With regard to the questions that have been asked in more detail, we will, of course, answer them in writing so that you can get all the answers to the questions you are interested in. As far as market surveillance is concerned, it is extremely difficult to work in terms of personal protective equipment and goods that we hold in customs transport. We need professionals for this work, and we will indeed respond in writing, because this is a very specific issue. I think these are the things I'd like to expose in this respect. Thank you for all these favorable words. The remaining questions will be addressed in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. Great, I'm asking you to make a written reference. Yet the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, promised two words.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, actually I might not be referring to you at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u370	And that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u371	But I have to thank the marshal very sincerely for his instant reaction to the disgraceful words that came from the bleachers. They're never supposed to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u372	The left is wise and quick, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u373	I don't think a group here matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u374	It does to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u375	These are words that no parliamentarians should ever speak. I'm ashamed of them because I'm an MP too. It is said that whoever himself was never an employee will not understand the employee. Labour inspectors are also employees. These are the workers who are following our debate on the Internet today. I think we have a lot to do. The State Labour Inspection is subject to the Sejm and it is the Sejm's decision on what remuneration, what resources go to the State Labour Inspection, what powers this office has and what responsibilities it has, not only on the day when there is a debate on the report, but above all on the days when in committees we work on specific issues, when in the Committee on Public Finance we decide what funds we allocate to each office. I feel extremely uncomfortable in this situation. I address those who are watching us, but above all, the inspector. I would like to apologize very much for having to witness an embarrassing scene. My outrage... I really can't express it. It is a matter of words that have been spoken by one of the Members towards employees of the State Labour Inspection, who, as no one, have the right to protect dignity because they protect the dignity of each worker. Today, they should not have witnessed such a scene. Dear Inspectors, employees of the State Labour Inspection - all of you, from inspectors to administrative staff - I am very sorry for these words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u376	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection of print report 1356 was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the 53rd meeting of the Polish Parliament. I would like to inform you that Members and Members have come forward to make their statements. There are 17 of them. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. We're gonna ask everyone to make a statement. I propose in a kind and social way that these statements last no more than 3 minutes. [[How much?]] Three minutes, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm suggesting. If anyone has anything really super important to say, you know me, of course I won't interrupt arrogantly. I'll stop politely. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Left Messenger's Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u377	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement concerns the situation of refugees in Poland. Refugees arriving in Poland have many needs. These include the need to respect reproductive rights, i.e. the right to contraception, the right to legal abortion or the right to decide on their own fertility. It should be remembered that Ukrainians in their country have free access to different benefits. Access to the same benefits should also be available in Poland. There is no reason why in the event of a difficult situation they would continue their pregnancy, but unfortunately because of Polish repressive law they are not able to stop it. In Ukraine, women have the right to remove pregnancy without giving cause. When they come to Poland, they will experience legal shock in contact with incomprehensible legal regulations restricting their right to decide about their own fertility. The existing language barrier significantly limits the possibility of obtaining reliable information about where and when a woman may discontinue pregnancy. This increases not only the risk of not getting aid at the right time, even when at least theoretically legal abortion should be available. I mean, pregnancy caused by a criminal act. It is worth mentioning that women in Poland, who in theory have the right to terminate the pregnancy created as a result of a criminal act because of the wrong functioning of the law, cannot in practice enforce it. This can't be happening to Ukrainians. The Left has taken numerous steps to ensure that the Ukrainians can effectively enforce the right to legal abortion. With all this in mind, I would like to say that women from Ukraine should be able to turn to any hospital in Poland, where they would get help without giving a reason, among others. during termination of pregnancy regardless of the personal beliefs of personnel who are obstructing themselves, e.g. A clause of conscience. The Ministry of Health should take steps to ensure that Ukrainians have full access to abortion. It is a moral duty of the Polish government to prevent Ukrainians from adding another trauma related to the oppressive anti-abortion law in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! On 4 May we celebrate an extremely symbolic festival - the International Firefighter's Day. It is a day in which we particularly appreciate the service of all firefighters who are ready every day to defend the life and health of Poles and Poles, who protect us from the crazy elements of fire, water and wind, or the consequences of natural disasters and accidents. As inhabitants of the region, we can always count on the help of the fire department even in case of the most difficult events. As a result, both firefighters as an institution and firefighters themselves continue to enjoy the high confidence of citizens. On the day of the firefighter's holiday, I would like to thank all officers and officers, bridesmaids and bridesmaids for their sacrificial service and their concern for our safety. We thank you for your help to every man in moments of danger to health, life and property. All firefighters, especially from Bielska-Biała and the counties of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki, as well as the firefighter's families wish health and every prosperity. Never let happiness leave you in your professional and private lives. I also wish you the satisfaction of fulfilling this difficult and demanding service and as many returns as you travel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u380	Thank you very much, sir. The Member set a good example - one minute thirty. That's great. That's great. [[Mr. Marshal, as always.]] And smart, reasonable, clear. Mr Maciej Kopiec, parliamentary club of the Left. Let's see what happens now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is above all a huge responsibility to rule the state. Those who do not understand should not have any public functions. However, it is different - irresponsibleness and incompetence have become an iconic definition of law and justice. If the Ministry of Infrastructure were a film plan by Karier Nicodemus Dyzma ¿, the main role would be played by the shepherd of the central communication meadow, the representative of the aviation government Marcin Horała, recently awarded with a new stool in the Ministry of Funds. Marcin Horała became famous for his arrogance and nepotism. One of Mr Horała's first decisions was to provide a public job for his assistant and colleague, Patrick Felmet, first at the Port Service Company of the Reserve, later at the port of Gdansk and Lotus, and finally at the Central Communication Port, with a salary of about 45 thousand. PLN per month. How many friends are there, and how much do they make out of public money? We don't know that, because Mr Horala refuses to respond to my parliamentary intervention, which is against the law. The Supreme Audit Chamber in its report on the State Air Navigation Agency stated that this agency supervised by Horala is putting flight safety at risk. Only thanks to the responsibility of the social side and the new president of PAZP managed to prevent the paralysis of the Polish sky. Where was Mr. Horala during this crisis? He was probably mowing the meadow, because he certainly wasn't at work or at the Sejm board meetings on the case. The only thing he's gotten at is the names of the air traffic controllers. He'll probably come back soon and say at the conference that no one has the right to attach themselves, because Horala is a social bear, opening the eyes of the disbelievers, responding to the vital needs of the entire community, and certainly based on a number of institutions, paraphrasing Baria. On behalf of the Left, Mr Wiesław Szczepański and I applied for the removal of Mr Horala from ministerial positions. We will constantly remind you of this proposal, in the interests of public money, ministerial competences, government responsibility and air traffic safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. I wonder what's gonna happen to us today. [[I'm also curious.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! April 14th this year Mieczysław Struk, Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, submitted a document to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, entitled "Memorandum on the Government Programme for the Impact Area of the First Nuclear Power Plant in Poland," which was also an invitation to dialogue on the process of implementation and exploitation of this key to the energy security of the state of investment. This document updates the document prepared and forwarded to the government website in 2016. It is therefore a re-invitation, taking into account current circumstances, for a comprehensive dialogue between government and local government, which should aim to agree on the comprehensive actions necessary for the best implementation of a project of strategic importance for the whole country. In order to exploit the investment potential of the memorandum, it indicates the need to adopt a strategic government programme called Increased economic activity in the direct field of the impact of the first nuclear power plant in Poland. The general objective of the strategic government programme will be to launch and make optimal use of the development potential of the nuclear power plant's impact area due to a strong investment boost, followed by a rapid change in local living and business conditions resulting from the implementation of this strategic investment. The document proposes that a strategic government programme should address all relevant areas such as transport accessibility, economic development, education and human resources development, living conditions and the attractiveness of settlements. Only comprehensive actions will prepare the region for the implementation of such an important investment for the security of the state. I therefore call for this initiative to be supported in order to take full advantage of the opportunities of the planned project, while maximising its benefits and minimising potential negative side effects, thereby building political and social consensus around this strategic investment for Pomerania and the country as a whole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u384	Mr President, thank you very much for this vote. Mr Jan Szopiński, one of the most active Members in our Seym. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u385	I'm trying, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 19 April 2022 the 676th anniversary of the granting of city rights to Bydgoszcz by King Kazimierz the Great took place. Today's Bydgoszcz is the eighth largest city in Poland, a strong cultural, academic, medical, economic and sports centre. It is a city of ambitious people, proud of their history, open to Europe, who value freedom, civil rights and patriotic values. I am deeply pleased that thanks to the support of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz in the next elections, I was able to represent your interests, in the past being the Deputy Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, Vice-President of the City Council of Bydgoszcz and Deputy President of Bydgoszcz. Also today, a large part of my over 750 interpellations and 540 speeches here from this place concern the Bydgoszcz cases and the fight to ensure that the Prime Minister and all ministers respect the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz. It would be nice if, on the occasion of the anniversary of the city, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki thought of a birthday present for a respectable birthday boy. And the best gift for Bydgoszcz would be, Prime Minister, the fulfilment by you of your public declaration of 2019 on the construction by the Government of Law and Justice of the athletic and small-scale hall for Bydgoszcz. I will remind you that Bydgoszcz is a very well-deserved club for Polish sport, which raised Olympic champions, the world, Europe and our country. On the occasion of the past feast of the royal city of Bydgoszcz and the upcoming anniversary of 1 May, the anniversary of Poland's accession to the European Union, and the national feast of 3 May I wish my city and all inhabitants of the city of Bydgoszcz further development, new investments for the 21st century, as well as greater openness of the government to Bydgoszcz projects and conclusions from government decision-makers. May the city of Bydgoszcz continue to be a good home to many great Bydgoszczans, and the inhabitants may continue to be the greatest value of this wonderful city. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Bydgoszcz!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u386	Thank you very much. Of course, we all keep our fingers crossed for these wishes and wish the Bydgoszcz all the best. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u387	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Fire department in Piotrków Trybunalski. The plague of the old cities was fires, it was already seen in the Middle Ages. In Polish lands, it is considered as a precursor, and even as a creator of fire-fighting, that of Wolborz, the famous Renaissance publicist Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski. He created the first fire regulations and the first fire department unit in the 16th century in Wolborz, but the first professional firefighters were created in the Polish lands in the first half of the 19th century. It started with Warsaw and later was Kraków and Poznań. The fires were particularly strongly touched by Piotrków Trybunalski. Its stories are known from 1516, 1530, 1615, 1731. The red chicken can be exchanged for a long time. In 1865 the fire destroyed more than half of the city. Even this did not convince the Russian authorities at that time to create a city-style fire department. However, the Piotrków did not give up their efforts. In March 1873, however, a voluntary fire guard of the city of Piotrków was established, with 152 active members. The warden was Władysław Rozmarowski. The branch developed systematically, quickly gaining full uniform and necessary equipment. Piotrkowski firefighters practiced in a place where today there is a court in Salt Square. They wrote praiseworthy cards, as an example of a patriotic, civic attitude, as the researcher writes on this subject, Mariusz Nebula. Firefighters served in different structures after regaining independence and during the German occupation. After it was completed in 1951, a decision was taken on the construction of a new guard, which was completed after 4 years. It is necessary to write that the contemporary Piotrkowska guard is in a straight line a continuation of this one more than 100 years ago. Since the creation of separate legal acts of the State Fire Service in 1992, he participates in more than 800 shares a year. It is worth noting that in connection with the imposition of new obligations on firefighters, the actions include not only the elimination of fires, but also the elimination of other threats. I hope our guards need it as little as possible. On the occasion of the upcoming International Firefighter's Day, 4 May, I would like to present especially firefighters from Piotrków Trybunalski, Piotrkowski's, Belchatowski's, Tomaszowski's, and all firefighters of the State Fire Guard, voluntary firefighters' best wishes. So many trips, so many returns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. [[Present.]] You're welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u389	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland under PiS is building numerous fictions, but economic fiction is particularly dangerous for all of us. Since the group holding power has discovered that it can throw expenditure outside the budget into funds that are not subject to parliamentary control, the destruction of the Polish economy has rapidly accelerated. It's like a monkey found a razor abandoned on the runway and didn't hesitate to use it. Between 2020 and 2022, funds outside of Parliament's control in Poland generated a deficit of around 8%. GDP. The total debt of these funds at the end of 2021 is PLN 290 billion. Most EU countries did not think that they could steal from their own people, and there are no such funds, but, as you can see, Poland is the first in Europe to wave a razor and know how it will end sooner or later. The situation of Poland can also be compared to the situation of a large family in which the husband pretends to work, and in fact every month he takes moments and hides it from his family. In his spare time he meets other unworking colleagues in a secret villa, e.g. Like the one in the Jazgarzewszyn. They eat, drink, pray, listen to pegasus, collect files, and in them hooks for opposition, judges, independent journalists and politicians. They don't work, they don't care, they take moments to power, and they don't care about anything. Why? Because it's not for them, and the bailiff is about to knock on our door, and we're gonna pay for their non-work, their debt to power, their insanity to the economy, for those awards that still belong to them, for milking companies of the Treasury, for pushing public money to the Church, for their giants, for fences at the border of reinforced concrete and steel, for a hole to the extent, for a field in Baranów, for a power plant in Ostrołęka, which didn't produce 1 mW, for 100,000. The poor housing and 1 million electric cars, for destroying green energy, for fighting windmills, for failing decisions, for which we pay penalties, and for the most expensive pest in our country's history, Ziobra, through which we are deprived of EU funds. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u390	Whew... Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. There isn't. Mrs Urszula Zielińska. [[Present.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Ha, ha, ha! Such a dry-cleaner. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u391	Not so fast, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers of the Government of Law and Justice during yesterday's so-called Poland's energy security debates assured that no one in this country would run out of gas. On the same day, 10 municipalities in five voivodships in Poland ran out of gas. Ministers of the PiS government swore this morning that residents of the municipalities cut off from gas would be quickly secured. In fact, they have not yet been secured and more than 80% buildings in Łeba, including schools, commune office, fire station, hundreds of houses and apartments, still there is no heating and warm water. In a similar situation there are residents of the remaining 10 municipalities. And when houses, schools and hospitals in Pomerania, Greater Poland, in Mazovia do not have hot water and heating, the ministers of the government of PiS work hard, i.e. They travel mainly through the city of Warsaw, from one press conference to another, from one television studio to another, ensuring that the government is prepared and Poland is energy safe. Only that in fact Poland is not energy safe. E.g. The key decision for the gas safety of people in 10 municipalities and five voivodships in Poland was just taken by one Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and did so, clearly unprepared and unaware of its effects. Alternative national green energy sources are deliberately blocked by distance laws such as wind energy, a negative billing system, such as photovoltaics, lack of legislative solutions such as biogas, biomethane, incompetence and ignorance, for example. in the case of a delayed thermomodernisation strategy or the absence of modern transmission networks, political trade with Minister Ziobro, as in the case of the blocked Fund for Reconstruction, which was to finance the Polish transformation. At times like this it is difficult to be optimistic and hopeful, but as a Green MEP, I will find this optimism and hope for you. There are solutions to the crisis that we are in today. Technologies enabling them are available and examples of their successful implementation in other countries are also available. We filed implementing laws in the Sejm. There are people who have the will and competence to implement it. The funds to finance them are intact. All we need is one fundamental change, a government change, and that's what we're gonna do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u392	It was supposed to be short, and it ended with a government change. [[I hope so.]] It's hard work. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. The government is already changed, Mr, if anything, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to dedicate my statement to the subject of protests and emotions that accompany the selection of the variant of the railway line no 170 on the section Katowice - the state border - Ostrava as part of the construction of the so-called. High-speed railroad, Central Communication Port. In 2017, the government noisyly announced the construction of the Central Communication Port to Poles. Many Poles raised doubts about the validity of such a giant investment. Many asked if this was a good time and whether we were be able to do so now, or there are no major projects that should be implemented urgently. The government didn't pay attention, didn't listen to the sovereign. Well, some of the new railway investments are also to be built in Silesia, within the Silesian Voivodeship. Both local authorities and residents make a lot of comments about the construction and proposed variants of railway line 170 on section Katowice - state border - Ostrava. But just to say that the residents make a lot of comments, that's not saying anything. So let's get to the point. The first proposals for high-speed railway lines were received by local authorities as early as 2020. Already then they found that they strongly conflicted with housing and protected areas of special importance: the botanical garden in Mikołów or the Palowice Lake District in the commune Czerwionka-Leszczyna. So it became natural to submit tens of thousands of comments and questions. It was composed by local government officials and residents. After all, the proposed steps led to the elimination of all the achievements of many generations. For example: in the municipality of Mszana with more than 7 thousand. 128 houses, several enterprises, even a newly built church, are at risk of demolition. The same is true in Laziska, in Peanut - 140 buildings for liquidation. The same is true in Mikolov. The local government, fully aware of the threat, knows that the proposed options will certainly reduce, and even block, the development of their small homelands, destroy already built or under construction municipal infrastructure built from European Union funds. Therefore, when faced with government plans, they try to develop as little as possible an invasive variant of the railway route as possible. it was done in the Mikowski district. Unfortunately, their proposal has also not been taken into account, which I consider to be a scandal. The government did not bend over these options (the bell), worse, it did not provide any justification. Total lack of responsibility as regards the proposal. He didn't do anything about it. A large part of the population is aware of the need to expand the railways. However, the government's lack of response to their proposals and comments arouses a powerful wave of protests. The lack of specific information on the rules and the amount of compensation and expropriation also causes and increases the dissatisfaction of residents. Protesting crowds of people blocking streets, crossings, collecting signatures under lists of protests to governments, bursting in suture rooms with residents during so-called. I heard that there were public consultations in tens of thousands of votes against the inhabitants, among others. Godowa, Mszany, Świerklan, Żor, Rybnik, Czerwionki-Leszczyn, Orzesza, Mikowa, Łazisk, Katowice - this is a picture of the last few months that could be seen in 15 Silesian communes, through which there is a high-speed railway. I appeal from this place to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Government responsible for this project for a fair approach to the subject, to give him due attention and to listen to the people's voices. I appeal on behalf of the inhabitants of Silesia, residents of these 15 municipalities, who during the last so-called. The consultations have repeatedly stressed that they lack a government representative in this discussion. When, Minister, will you sit at the table with local government officials from Mikołowski County and finally listen to their proposals? When will the government finally consider the voice of the sovereign, the voice of Poles who may soon lose their achievements, the achievements of many Poles? The railroad should continue to be a symbol that unites, does not divide. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u394	Mr President, the promise has been kept. Thank you very much. Mr Adam Gawada, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u395	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, energy security is one of the fundamental pillars of state security. Over the last years, its importance has increased. During the cruel war of Putin, Russia in Ukraine also changed its comprehension. State energy security and raw material security and stable and undistorted energy supply are the basis for the development of each country, the pillar of functioning not only in the economic area, but also in terms of the functioning of individual societies, institutions, schools or hospitals. The growing demand for energy, energy raw materials and fuel, which many experts have highlighted, is becoming one of the main themes of political strategic reflection and, in the context of the war in Ukraine, presents us with new challenges and tasks. The strategic interest of Poland should be to stabilise the extraction of hard coal and brown coal in the country. In particular, it is necessary to develop a model to match the production potential to the needs of professional energy, heating and individual customers waiting especially for coals sorted for fifth generation boilers, to organic boilers meeting all environmental requirements. These are tasks that should be placed as strategically important and urgent to implement. In charge of the mining sector, I led to the creation of a central warehouse in Ostrów Wielkopolski. Maintaining the production capacity at an appropriate level, periodic storage of energy raw materials and maintaining their reserves are a requirement for dynamically changing conditions on European and global markets. This is a condition that in the future, industrial, professional and heating energy will not be exposed to problems with the supply of fossil raw materials. The growing dependence of the European Union on gas supplies from Russia for decades, which we have warned the countries of Western Europe strongly, has led to a tragedy in Ukraine. This has led to the greatest solstice since World War II and a heart attack in energy-fuel systems. In the face of Russian aggression against Ukraine, we need to increase the mining potential of Polish coal mining and brown coal. Polish mining should secure 100% supplies to domestic customers. It is necessary to make the best possible use of the deposits in the right economic conditions. At the same time, the construction of low- and zero-emission installations, which in some part also use coal, i.e. the construction of power plants and installations for the production of not only energy, but also accompanying fuels, synthesis gas, hydrogen or methanol, and using e.g. Coke gas. This is today's first assignment. Such models must be introduced on an increasing scale. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me finish, this is still a very important part of my statement. Sadness, regret and disbelief accompany me when I think about the accidents that took place last week in the mine of Pniówek and the movement of Zofiówka. Once again, tragic accidents in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa remind us how hard and dangerous mining work is. I receive prayer and support from all victims and their families and loved ones. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced control of mines. The committees appointed by the President of the Higher Mining Authority under the control of the prosecution must carefully examine all the circumstances of these two disasters and the causes of explosions and shocks in order to prevent similar tragedies in the future. The Prime Minister also assured that the Polish state would not leave the families of the miners themselves. God bless you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days Silesia and the whole of Poland have grieved after the unimaginable tragedy that occurred in the mine Pniówek in Pawłowice and in the mine Zofiówka in Jastrzębie-Zdrój. Each of us, the Silesians, has someone in the family who works in the mining industry. That's why we all held our breath when we heard about the methane explosion and then about another tragedy in the Zofiówka mine. Unfortunately, the passing hours of rescue provided the most tragic information about the next victims, most often young miners and rescuers, who had gone underground at risk of life to find their fellow workers. Some of the miners who survived this disaster are now fighting for their lives in Silesian hospitals. All of Poland, praying through the intercession of St. Barbary, hopefully waiting for good information about hospitalized health. I would like to express my solidarity to the families of the victims of this place, ensuring that we pray and remember. If you're in hospitals, I wish you a quick recovery. I thank all the mining brothers from the heart for your hard and responsible work. We're proud of you, we're proud of you. God bless you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u399	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u400	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The graduation ceremony of the high school year began. On this occasion, I would like to address a few words to young people, parents and teachers. Dear Masters! You ended your adventure in your schools. I know it wasn't easy at times, but as Aristotle used to say, the root of science is bitter, but the fruit is sweet. Remember, knowledge is an acquired value that no one can take away from you. You're going to have a maturity exam, something that each of us remembers all our lives. Memories associated with this particular time will remain in your memory for a long time. This particular period determines your prospects for life, and the friendships made at the high school stage are the most durable. Dear Masters! I'd like to wish you all the best results from your prom exam. Let it become a pass to dream universities and college courses. You are starting an adult life in which I wish you a lot of happiness, every success and fulfillment of your plans and dreams with all my heart. Thank you for your efforts, your commitment to various initiatives and to your schools, and to yourselves. At the hands of the directors, all teachers and parents, I would like to thank them for their daily efforts to educate and educate students. I believe that your commitment to the exemplary organisation of the education process offers the opportunity to develop pupils comprehensively and will result in numerous achievements of young people. I assure you of my support and respect. I greet all teachers, parents and seniors from high school, and in particular from the High School that teaches them. Tadeusz Kotarbiński in Krajński Sępólno, from the 3rd High School of General Education. Adam Mickiewicz in Bydgoszcz and Mechanical School Complex No. 1 Franciszek Siemiradzki in Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen, who maybe you are listening to this incident and maybe you will listen! It's like throwing a letter in a bottle at the end of this Sejm meeting. Maybe somebody's gonna find out who's wondering how things are going. Here things are so important that the united COVID-war coalition holds power, the government over our money, our health, our life. And just as for the previous two years this coalition has not hesitated to train and drug, to expose to health, life, wealth, so now it does not hesitate to push the Polish people along with the whole country, with its authority and its fragile assets towards war, deeper into war. The majority in public space are those who, as Roman Dmowski diagnosed, apparently hate Russia more than they love Poland. It so happens that near the Confederation it is the only one, although with a different voice, but nevertheless separate, that it opposes the transfer of the costs of all these operations to the Polish nation. We oppose the imposition of this risk. And well, less that most of the recipients are unable to discern in those fogs of war that obscure real problems. What are the real problems? Gas bills, electricity bills - these too will grow. Open taxes and hidden taxes, inflation, reaching out to Poles insidiously to their pockets. A nation robbed by its own power, and now, of course, just as for two years was a good explanation that the fight against the supposed pandemic must continue, so now it is known whose fault: Putin's wine. Adam Słodowy advises: today I will show you how to change, turn the mask into a Ukrainian flag. The Polish people are comforted by such jokes. They're talking to me, but here's where the flags went. Red, rainbow, daffodils, and this is Poland, not banderland, POLIN...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u404	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u405	...the Eurocircle Land... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u406	I invite Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u407	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today many places in Poland have been cut off from gas. This applies to towns such as Zagórów, Mieścisko and other municipalities in five voivodships. How many municipalities and cities do we have without gas, water or electricity? Today I spoke to a gentleman working outside Poland who asked me terrified of what his loved ones would do in this situation. Prime Minister, what do you say? Let these people warm their apartments with a lighter? This is ridiculous. The Maya is approaching, there is no water or heating in the tourist facilities in the Elbe. This situation is the result of your completely short-sighted and irresponsible policy. How is it possible that gas to parts of Polish houses was supplied by some shady company of Russian oligarchs? How could you not have noticed this pathology? We have very difficult years in energy, and you are completely unprepared for it. Recently, some people had their gas pumped by 100%. , in others - by 20%, because they had signed contracts with other suppliers. How should Poles and Poles have fundamental confidence in how you take care of your interests and take them fairly and seriously? For all this, you've come up with a plan to sell Lotus to the Hungarian concern Moll, which is a tool in the hands of your friend Viktor Orbán. Not or not, but when are you gonna pull out of this disgraceful sale? When will you withdraw from your alliance with Orbán, Le Pen and other friends of Putin? What else is gonna happen? When are you guys gonna get to work? When are you gonna sort out the energy market and not create more companies just to fill your friends and relatives of the rabbit? What guarantee do we have that you will complete Baltic Pipe within the deadline and that in the autumn all these problems will not return to us? When you present a plan for a real energy transition that will permanently make us independent of Russian supplies, will it allow us to reduce emissions and will be a process in which people employed in the mining sector will be taken seriously and partnerly? If you had not so stubbornly blocked renewable energy sources, electricity prices would not have increased today and we would not have had a crisis like that in Mościska and many other municipalities. Prime Minister, when will you unlock the RES? How do you want to increase our energy security? When are you guys gonna get to work? Come to your senses before it's too late. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. [[I ask for a little more time, because the subject is difficult and important.]] Well, there's not a lot of people who can understand that, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 1 May 2004, 18 years ago, we became a fully-fledged member of the European Union, which honoured our long-term efforts initiated at the beginning of the systemic transformation, and thus after the June 1989 elections. From the very beginning of this transformation, we have assumed our membership in the Community. As some people probably remember, in December 2002 negotiations on membership of the European Union were concluded and in June 2003 a referendum on Poland's accession to the Union was held in our country. In a referendum more than 77% Poles voted in favour of Poland's membership in the European Union. The 18th anniversary of our presence in the Union is unfortunately due to the difficult events that are linked to the war in Ukraine. In addition, we are after a two-year severe period of pandemic experience. At this difficult time of pandemics, we could count on the support of the European Union, which has helped all Member States. Moreover, thanks to the actions of the EU institutions, we have been provided with a vaccine against the virus to the appropriate extent, which is worth remembering, and we know in what atmosphere all of this was happening. The functioning of the European Union obliges all Member States to respect common principles and values. It is therefore important to mention the ongoing dispute over the rule of law, which is reflected in the lack of decision to mobilise funds for Poland under the National Reconstruction Plan. The European Commission does not want to release funds from the Reconstruction Fund until the Polish government withdraws from the changes in the judicial system considered to restrict the independence of courts in Poland. Let us remind you that in the case of Poland it is about the amount of EUR 58 billion, which at the current euro-to-gold rate gives the amount of more than PLN 270 billion. These funds could already be used by entrepreneurs, local governments, farmers. Thanks to our presence in EU structures, but also in NATO, we have a constant sense of stability, security and many economic and social benefits that result from our membership in the Community. Therefore, our presence in the Union and NATO guarantees us full protection in terms of economic, external and defence security. I think I will end with this, although it would still be worth mentioning a number of important events (the Bell), what gives a common European market, the free movement of goods, services, capital, people, the great opportunity for young people, Erasmus, the exchange and finally the security that I have been talking about, which is connected with our presence in the Union, the presence in NATO. We are probably asking ourselves what situation Poland would be in if it were not part of these two important international organisations. Because such an organization is the European Union, which we are creating together and which form we influence, but also this important defence structure, which is the North Atlantic Pact, NATO. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u410	I see that the honourable Member has many supporters and supporters in the Chamber. I'm looking at the O.R. A room full of supporters and supporters. Congratulations. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u411	Statement on Gazprom's interruption of gas supply to Poland Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is one of the few countries prepared for gas blackmail from Russia. The official reason for Gazprom's interruption of gas supply to Poland is Poland's failure to pay its debts in rubles, but we know very well that this is about our implacable attitude towards Ukraine. The LNG terminal in Świnoujście can take up to 8 billion m It must be admitted that Gazprom has never been a reliable contractor, and I would now like to listen to all those who were pro-Russian-oriented, who supported Nord Stream and Nord Stream 2, and those who opposed Baltic Pipe. I also do not understand the votes against the merger of PKN Orlen with Lotus. Thanks to it, a large and above all Polish energy entity will be created, which will be a strong player on world markets. We're in a massive energy conflict, and it's up to us to get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u412	Dear Marshal! The Polish Army has been stationed in Ciechanów since 1918. In the imperial barracks, 32 were stationed. Ciechanowski Infantry Regiment, and in the years 1921-1939 the pride of our city - 11. The regiment of the Legion Halls. Marshal Edward Chopper-Rydz. After the end of World War II Ciechanów continued to host soldiers, among others. 3. The Berlin Mechanized Regiment. The inhabitants of our city accustomed to the presence of the Polish Army could not believe that the Ciechanov barracks were deserted. At the initiative of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, a new formation of the Polish Army - the Territorial Defence Army was established. I've put in a lot of work to get the army back to Ciechanów. We did it. 5. Mazovian Territorial Defence Brigade. d.o.b. Mieczysława Dziemiewicza ps. The swarm is with us, and the historic barracks have been saved. On Saturday, together with Minister Anton Macierewicz, we organized a press conference outside the barracks gate. It was about the purpose of this formation. Helping citizens during the pandemic, effectively protecting the Polish-Belarusian border from thousands of immigrants trying to cross our borders illegally, the borders of the European Union are proof of how effective and necessary the Territorial Defence Forces are. It is also worth mentioning their role in the context of the war in Ukraine. The help they bring to those fleeing the brutal aggression of Putin Ukrainians is invaluable. It must be added that admirable Ukrainian defence is the result of the valor and dedication of the forces of territorial defence and civil defence of Ukraine. Given all this, it can be concluded that Poland needed and still needs well-trained and armed territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u413	Declaration on the World Day for Safety and Health at Work In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the World Day of Safety and Health at Work celebrated on 28 April. This day is celebrated on an international, national, regional and local level - each year with a special motto. Special attention is then paid to preventing accidents and protecting workers from occupational diseases by identifying existing and new risks, creating prevention programmes, disseminating the latest knowledge in the field of health and safety and promoting compliance with health and safety rules at all levels in the work process. In parallel, the International Day of Remembrance for Victims of Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases is held to commemorate all those who have suffered during their work. Every year in Poland, about 300 people are killed by accidents at work, and 600 are seriously injured, often irreversible. The main causes of events and accidents are: bad and inappropriate organisation of work and workplaces, lack of training in health and safety, limited focus on the work done. Wide dissemination of knowledge about health and safety, not only before the start of work, but also during it, is very necessary, all the more so as the development of industry and services brings new occupational risks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u414	In 2023 it will be 100 years since the birth of Jerzy Nowosielski. Jerzy Nowosielski, born in 1923 in Krakow, was one of the most outstanding figures of Polish contemporary culture. Painting, theoretical thought, theology, artistic pedagogy, activities to promote and support art - these are just some of the areas in which Jerzy Nowosielski showed unfailing activity and had undisputed successes. In 1945-1947 he studied at the Faculty of Painting at the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow. In 1945-1949 he was a member of the Group of Young Plastics and since 1957 one of the founding members of the Artistic Association Krakowska Group. He was associated with the Krakow Academy of Fine Arts, where he worked as a professor in 1967-1993. Jerzy Nowosielski received the honorary doctorate of the Jagiellonian University as the only artist (2000) after Jan Matejce and the Academy of Fine Arts in Lviv (2008) and numerous awards, medals, national awards, among others. The Great Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland (1998), the Medal of Cracovia Merenti (1999), the Golden Medal of Deserving Culture Gloria Artis ¿ (2008). The Polish Orthodox Church honored it with a medal of St. Maria Magdalena II (1985) and the Cross of Konstanty Ostrogski (1985). He received among others. Their reward. Włodzimierz Pietrzak (Publishing Institute of PAK, Warsaw 1967), Minister of Culture and Art Award for Art Art in the Field of Painting (1973), Polish Academy of Sciences Award. Albert's Brother (1977), The Award Alfreda Jurzykowski (USA, 1981), Minister of Culture and First Art Award (1981), State Prize of the First Degree (1984), Artistic Award of the Warsaw Archdiocese Museum (1985), City Award of Krakow (1987), Grand Culture Foundation Award in Warsaw (1994), Award of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Jan Cybis (1998), The Award Witold Wojtkiewicz awarded by the Management Board of the District of ZPAP in Krakow (1999), the Totus Tuus Award in the category of achievements in the field of Christian culture (2000), the Prize for Christian Culture (2000). Erasmus and Anna Jerzmanowski, so-called. Polish Nobel, awarded by the Polish Academy of Skills (2010). Jerzy Nowosielski's artistic work was highly rated by critics on more than 100 individual exhibitions and more than 250 collective exhibitions. Among the most important Polish individual exhibitions are exhibitions at the National Museum in Poznań and BWA in Kraków (1993), the National Museum in Wrocław (1994), Zachęcie in Warsaw (2003), as well as the State Art Gallery in Sopot (2021-2022). The artist represented Poland at the Venice Biennale (1956) and Säo Paulo (1959). Jerzy Nowosielski was the author of many texts about art and faith. He is the author of equipment and polychromes of numerous sacral objects for churches: Roman Catholic, Greek Catholic and Orthodox. In his secular work he derived from the achievements of the avant-garde art and the tradition of Byzantine painting. He often referred to the subject of geometric abstraction, feminine act and landscape. Jerzy Nowosielski died in Kraków in 2011. His art is still considered a unique phenomenon, combining the sacrum and profanum zones. Among the most outstanding works of the artist of secular character are among others. The Battle of Addis Abeba (1947), the Swimmers (1953), the Cellist (1959), the Mystery of the Fiancée (1962), the Villa dei Misteri (1975), the Girls on the Ship (1981), the Tibetan Beach (1983).
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-sejm-53-2.u415	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 53rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[No, let's talk about something else.]] The minutes of the sitting will be laid down for you to review at the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 54th session of the Sejm, convened on 11 and 12 May 2022, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this hearing is adjourned. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 46]]
