ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Robert Gontarz and Marcin Duszek, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers. Mr Robert Gontarz will be the secretary in the first part of the session. I consider the minutes of the 50th session of the Sejm to be accepted. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to hold a 51st meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. High Izbo! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Another sad news. This year, in this term, we have a great deal of them. On 19 March this year. Marian Zembala, Member of the Sejm of the 8th term, Minister of Health, outstanding cardiosurgeon, Professor of Medical Sciences, died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into a quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. I state that 447 Members are attending the meeting, i.e. we have a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on urgent government draft laws: - amending the law on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting, - amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State. The reports shall be printed in 2092 and 2101 respectively. Therefore, on the basis of the article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, print No 2065. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Law on Higher Education and Science, - amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems, - special regulations on transport and maritime management in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. The reports shall be printed in 2095, 2088 and 2094 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the first readings of the draft laws amending the Law on the Supreme Court, the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the deteriorating economic situation of Poles in connection with the armed conflict in Ukraine, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, ED, Conservatives. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Special Services - hour. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 12.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Health-- hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation jointly with the Committee on Infrastructure - h.m. 15.45, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u3	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am applying for a break in the proceedings during which Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of Finance, will prepare for the High House information on the real state of the state's finances. For six years, we've been hearing that public finances are in great shape, that money is and will be for everything. And suddenly after the Sejm and the Senate, as a result of the above-party agreement, adopted the Homeland Defense Act, Prime Minister Kaczyński said that there is no money and there will be no need to change the constitution, because there is a threat of exceeding the constitutional limit on public debt. [[Applause]] [[What a lie!]] We want to know when you lied. Was it when you said it was okay or when you said it was okay? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u5	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert... [[Your Marshal, counterclaim.]] Prime Minister Kaczyński. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[He hasn't said anything yet.]] [[On your feet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u6	My answer is simple. I didn't say that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u7	Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! I ask for the adjournment of the sitting until Prime Minister Morawiecki presents to the Sejm information on the government's cooperation with the EU institutions today on Poland's support for the refugee and humanitarian crisis. Two million war refugees have already arrived in Poland. These people have to eat, they have to sleep somewhere, they have to be taken care of. I ask: What institutions are you in contact with? Do you even talk to the European Union? Has the EU asylum agency already been referred to, as Romania has already done? What about relocation of refugees? Self-governments and society are today giving a test of humanitarianism aimfully. [[What do local governments do on their own?]] Now it's time for the government. Poland should receive Community support, just as Turkey has recently received it. The Left proposed: EUR 500 per month for a refugee from the European Union budget. [[Applause]] [[Great.]] [[Sit down!]] Let's do this. To talk to the European Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let's do this. No more eye-washing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u9	Mr President, you seem to be living in a very different reality than all of us. There you go, Minister Paweł Chezernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u10	I'll take the opposite, Marshal. We're talking, we're helping, and we're gonna keep doing this, whether you're bothering us or not. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u11	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I apply for a formal adjournment until the High House receives all these hats from the Minister of Digitisation, the Minister of Finance, the President of the Council of Ministers - from the Minister of Finance. wears Mateusz Morawiecki - comprehensive, concrete information about the state of the budget. We are about to listen to information about the poor economic situation of Poles. But what, High Izbo, is the economic situation of the state? An inflation of 3,3% is planned for this year's budget and the National Bank of Poland predicts that this inflation will be 3-4 times higher. This has its consequences, especially as regards the impact of VAT, and will be relevant in the context of the examination of the proposals referred to by the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the change in the constitutional level of debt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u13	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! National agreement should be based on truth. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Well, I have a question: Why did the Prime Minister introduce political parties at the last meeting on Monday, misleading the fact that a constitutional change in the definition of debt is necessary, because a fund supporting the Polish army, modernising the Polish army, whose operator is to be the BKG, does not fall within the scope of this definition of debt? And another thing. A visit to Kiev. A great symbolic visit. It's very good that it happened. But the proposal for a peace mission raises many questions. What is the purpose of this mission? Is it possible that NATO troops will be attacked by Russian Federation troops? Is it possible to extend this conflict to NATO territory? I ask you to complete your deliberations, your marshal, the Prime Minister's information...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. This is not a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u16	...in which he will answer all these questions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u17	This is not a formal conclusion. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! You want to talk about money - very well. So let us agree on one thing: the full transparency of the political assets in this House. [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] All politicians have made a declaration of property, so, Mr. Boris (Merry in the Chamber, applause), please persuade Donald Tusk to make a statement of property today. [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: And Prime Minister Morawiecki too.]] We haven't heard his statement in seven years. [[Applause]] Mr. Waldemar, can we have Waldemar Pawlak's property statement? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: My name is Władysław.]] We haven't heard that statement in eight years. We want to know how any politicians of the Civic Platform, PSL... [[What about Moravian?]] ... worked with German foundations, Russian companies. We have the right. It's to know. I want you to make property statements today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Madam Marshal, with the opposite motion.]] If you don't put them together, it'll mean you have something to hide. Full disclosure of property statements, PITs on the table. Donald Tusk, Waldemar Pawlak - PITs on the table. [[Applause]] [[There's nothing more stupid than that.]] [[But it was a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u19	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz: Negative.]] It's against the law. There you go, with the opposite conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When are you going to reveal the property of the Prime Minister's wife that you promised to disclose before the 2019 election? [[Applause]] [[And what the Prime Minister's wife has to do with the situation...]] When will you reveal the property of the fat cats who settled in the Treasury companies, their own and all who feed from dawn to night? When are you gonna expose all the financial scams and all the scandals in your government? We expect a committee of inquiry to investigate these issues. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Tigger jump.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u21	But for a long time, that agreement was enough. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Maybe it'll be a formal conclusion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There has been a war in Ukraine for many days. We are talking about cutting ourselves off from oil, we are talking about cutting ourselves off from coal, from gas, ladies and gentlemen, and in Poland today we have completely frozen renewable energy. Our club requested that we immediately defrost land energy, wind energy, so that we should move away from these changes in prosumer energy, because today in Poland we need to build energy security, distributed energy, we need to diversify and become independent from external energy sources. Therefore, your marshal, High Izbo... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: And that's what we do.]] ... we ask for immediate entry to work, so that Poles are safer so that we can do this energy work here, in Poland and by Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u23	Thank you, sir. And Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! This is where Mr Smishek spoke today, calling for the government to demand money from the European Union for refugees. [[Formal conclusion.]] This is extremely hypocritical when your, Mr Sylwia Spurek's colleague, on the first day of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, petitioned for EU sanctions on Poland and voted against additional funds for Poland in connection with the reception of refugees. [[Applause]] It would be easier for Poland to negotiate money to recover the money that we pay in contributions if you did not inform on Poland in the European Union if you did not slander Poland if you did not betray us... [[Voice from the room: On the Kremlin.]] ...in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u25	You're the last one to come to the contrary, Mr. Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u26	Thank you, Marshal. I'm gonna go with the opposite. To be honest, in a situation where Polish diplomacy takes action on all possible fronts... [[There is no Polish diplomacy.]] ...counted at the request of hard sanctions against Russia, calculated to support Ukraine, both humanitarian and defensive weapons, calculated on the basis that the European Union should show solidarity both with Ukraine and financially support the Polish efforts that we are carrying Ukraine - after all, you must see these actions... [[When are you gonna stop the truck?]] ...they are spoken about in the media, these are public messages - the state in this situation you ask questions about what the Polish government does, what Polish diplomacy does, instead of supporting the Polish government in this difficult geopolitical situation. There are questions here, but there are also accusations, and I wanted to oppose these accusations above all - in a situation in which Mr Kosiniak-Kamish is practicing internal policy here. Perhaps he is doing this because he wants to distract attention from the fact that the tall, prominent politicians of the previous governing coalition, just PSL (the bell) that Mr Waldemar Pawlak, former Prime Minister, in January, 2 months ago, questioned the reasonableness of implementing Baltic Pipe's investment, and you are now calling for a reasonable energy policy. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] This is a disgrace. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u27	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, none of these proposals was a formal request because you are making your break conditional on events that are not going to happen - because there will be no completion of the agenda for what you requested just a moment ago from this stand. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report by the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the urgent draft law amending the Act on the support of households to bear the costs associated with the change in the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting (prints Nos 2089 and 2092). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee. A minute's rest, sir, so that Members who are going to committee meetings can leave the sitting room calmly. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 28 hours 10 min 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u28	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. The people who are going to stay in the courtroom - please. If anyone wants to leave, I kindly ask you to leave the room. Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the urgent draft law amending the law on the support of households to bear the costs associated with changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting, print No. 2089. The Marshal of the Sejm on 16 March sent the project to the committee for first reading. The Commission, following its first reading and the examination of the draft at its meeting on 18 March 2022, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u30	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Once again, I ask Mr Radosław Fogel, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, to take a stand and speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u31	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill. Him. the submission comes primarily from the Senate's amendments to this law, which we adopted a few weeks ago, and its urgency is due to the fact that these technological changes will be a fact soon. The idea is to allow Poles to benefit from the funding. What are the most important points of this project? This is about introducing a new definition, as the Senate replaced the words "television system' with the expression "digital receiver'. In a large simplification, the digital receiver can be a decoder, as well as it can be equipped with a screen, i.e. it can be, as usual, a TV. Depending on this is another amendment introduced in this Act. The amount of the decoder's funding remains at the level of PLN 100 and the television receiver - PLN 200. The essence of the bill is the same all the time. The aim is to prevent technological exclusion of people who watch terrestrial television when, due to the change in the technology of transmitting their existing receivers, they are unable to receive them. Most of this law has already been told at the time of its adoption. Therefore, I will simply say that Law and Justice, of course, supports the proposal for this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u32	Thank you very much. I have a problem. Didn't anyone from the Civic Coalition volunteer? [[No, I am.]] Speaking of which, Mr. Member. Something we don't have, sir... [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Member is and is willing to come forward.]] I'll ask you, sir. [[Thank you very much.]] Although you are signed - you do not know why - the Left, but I cordially invite you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Old habits.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, also from Szczecin. We can do this.]] [[Voice from the hall: He's ashamed.]] That's not what this was about. I didn't mean to offend you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u33	That's pretty nice. I'm not protesting. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing an important project, one of the most important in recent times, although on the optimism of the rapporteur, also looking at government benches... It's very late, unfortunately. The terrestrial television broadcasting system, which actually offers a lot of facilities and new opportunities, will be in place soon, in May, and we have known for at least two years. And again forcefully, we quickly make a bill to help Poles and Poles. This help, of course, is important. In the first presentation or during the first discussion we had here in the Seym, we only talked about decoders. It was at that time that the opposition pointed out that other receivers could also be charged. As the rapporteur said, they can be simply called TVs. We had comments, we really had reservations about this bill concerning the distribution of these funds. This bill is charged with original sin, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We really thought that fair distribution of these funds should be done through local governments and social assistance centres, because they know best who is poor in a given place, who needs such help and who can't afford it. This bill doesn't exactly specify it. Of course, we'll have to write a statement. You want to centralize it, do it centrally, fast. We really don't have much time, so if everyone throws up with these statements, with all of this, and they ask for these benefits, the question arises if you can do it. I don't know why you're so reluctant to self-government, and I don't know why it's such a problem to give it to local governments. You really want to centralize everything. However, we believe that this law is important, all the more so as we have proposed these amendments. I am very pleased that these amendments, which were tabled in the Senate, have also been accepted in the Sejm. And that's why our club, the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club, and I think, Mr. Marshal, that the Left too - since I'm so signed - will vote for this project because it's needed. I sincerely hope that these measures will be distributed fairly, that everything will be on time. I also hope that when there is an extraordinary demand for these decoders, they will not run out and suddenly their price will not increase dramatically. And we know that this can be done by individual distributors. That is why we recommend the project and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. We will know in a moment how the Left will vote, because Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska from that Left is coming. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have again an urgent government bill amending the Act on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting. When we were discussing this idea a month ago, we, as opposition, were no different from criticizing and saying it was legal. Fortunately, this time the Minister of Digitization was open, our comments were listened to and the committee made the most urgent changes. A law that is processed quickly can't be a perfect law, but although it's a little better now. There is no longer, for example. The point where citizens and citizens were expected to be punished is, however, the point where dishonest entrepreneurs will be punished. We have also changed what we requested - you can ask for 100 PLN per decoder, but also, as in this project, for 250 PLN per TV, i.e. the display of the image. This is all a joy to us, and even though it is done quickly, the Left will support this bill. I also asked about the information campaign last time. Whoever's watching TV probably noticed that there's something coming up as part of this information campaign. We learn that soon there will be a change of broadcasting system, and for part of Poland it will be in 5 days, because on March 28th, so we need to buy decoders very quickly and install them. Sunday isn't a commercial Sunday, so there's literally a few days left to buy. So from this advertising campaign, informational citizens and citizens should also learn how this change should be carried out and to whom, where to apply for funding. So, in conclusion, the Left will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u36	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u37	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives Marek Biernacki, with regard to the government bill amending the law on the support of households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. As a rule, my club supports this bill. Indeed, this is an important project that, I think, will allow people who have financial problems, buying it, whether it's a decoder or a television transmitter in a short time. However, we really wanted to say that it should not be so that at such a rapid rate there is a procession of this law, all the more so that it was already known that these changes would take place and that these changes would have to be adapted. For generalization, I just wanted to say - so that the State who is watching the Sejm's proceedings will know - that a distinction will be made between the amount of the subsidy depending on whether the eligible person is seeking assistance in the acquisition of a TV or in the acquisition of a decoder. If someone wants to buy a TV, he will receive a co-financing of PLN 250, while if he buys a decoder, the co-financing will be PLN 100. It is a pity that local authorities will not be able to help quickly solve all the problems that arise from technical problems. Indeed, this centralization is not entirely well thought out. In principle, however, as I said, my club will support this bill because it is an important act because it gives residents, Poles and Poles access to public information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill should be called pure distribution. We're throwing away money we don't have because we can. Because you can. You still haven't corrected anything in this bill. A month ago, when we were talking about this bill, my friends and I were joking about how you're probably gonna put on a TV or maybe a playstation. Today we're at the TV. There's no justification, no logical justification for why we're giving this money away. Not much, in the bill, you couldn't even tell who we were actually giving away that money to. Still, an article that tells us who is entitled to it is absurd. Let's read it, Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3: a statement by the person entitled to the fact that the difficult material situation of that person's household makes it impossible to bear the costs of purchasing a digital receiver on its own in order to ensure that the household receives digital terrestrial television in accordance with the standard specified without prejudice to the basic living needs of that person's household. It's really written. If we look through the prism of the introduction of the Polish Deal, increases in fuel prices, increases in gas prices, this law will cover almost 10 million farms. And you foresaw it - now, this time, you've defined it - only for 2270 thousand. holdings. You increased the limit from 280 million to 620 million because you multiplied these 2270 {farms by 250 and added PLN 50 million to the program. At the same time, the minimum you assumed at the time, 280 million, if only the decoders were 100, this program would cost 20 PLN for each 100 PLN spent. There is no second such expensive program in Poland. Just the cost of service for every 100 PLN would be 20 PLN extra. Did anyone even think about it? What would this money go for as part of this program? 50 million? This program really looks bad, it just looks like it's a regular hand, without any justification. And the moment we need the money, when you said we were raising military spending to 3%. GDP, when we need all the money, you just give away 600 million, that's what you spend. And then cry that there's no money where it needs to be. Therefore, as a Confederation, we are filing a motion to reject this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u40	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project is urgent. The project is government, above all urgent. When I read prints like this, I can only think of one question: why are we even going back to this case? After all, the idea of such a modification of the law appeared on 8 February during the meeting of the Digital Commission. The amendment, which extended the act to receivers with a screen, i.e. televisions, was submitted by Poland 2050, but not only because also by the Civic Coalition, and my friends from the Left, but then you were deaf to our arguments. On 8 February, you carried out all three readings and led to a vote on this law in the Sejm. The change is, of course, right, the addition must also include televisions, because limiting it only to decoders does not allow the full use of the HEVC standard, which contains very significant facilities for people with disabilities, especially those who are visually impaired, those who are not hearing. It is very good that there is a distinction between funding for decoders and televisions, that is also rational. It is very good that the so-called "market protection" has been introduced. related services, this also bears the marks of rationality. But why waste this month? After all, it was possible to approach this properly, to work on this law, to consult it socially, to accept the rational amendments tabled by the wheels and the parliamentary clubs and to arrange It's one time, not go back to the Sejm again. Of course, with great satisfaction we will support this project. The satisfaction is particularly due to the fact that the arguments raised by us have gained recognition in the eyes of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Robert Kwiatkowski, the Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I admit, I'm having trouble with this bill because, as they say, good intentions are hell paved. Undoubtedly, the ideas were accompanied by good intentions and - as Mr Grammar has said long enough and competently enough - they have finally found that these amendments tabled by the opposition at the time make sense, are needed and need to be implemented. And that's the point of this next urgent government presentation. But between this basic act, which grants, without receivers yet, funding to the poor and today's government presentation, it is not three or four weeks, but the entire era has passed. Let's look at the chronology. February 24, i.e. on the day of Russia's attack on Ukraine, this law returned after the Senate amendments to the Sejm and immediately after, of course, independently of this submission, there appeared discussions and plans on additional budget expenditure, because the homeland in need. The fact that the homeland in need, probably no one questions, is what level should be and what methods of increasing spending on the Polish Armed Forces, it was already and probably will be a topic for further discussion, but this bill will cost us, as the government says, over 650 million PLN. It's already concrete money. It may also be worth asking this one fundamental question: Can we afford this kind of expenditure in the current situation? Because they are certainly needed, and certainly the poor will benefit, or at least they will have a chance to benefit from this kind of funding, but too rarely do I think that the question arises in this House as to whether we can afford it. The government continues to give a yes, indicating only that not everything is in the budget, not everything is revealed that there are numerous non-budget funds. And recently we hear more and more loudly sayings suggesting that the debt limit in the Constitution should be amended, because in the current situation 60% GDP debt is not enough. Therefore, dear representatives of the government, if you are here, there is a minister, think and answer, please, if we can afford it in the current situation (the bell) or not. The PPS Parliamentary Circle makes the decision to support or not to submit this question subject to the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u44	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 16 people have asked questions and discussions. Would any of you like to come in? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One single opinion - at least I found one - was the minister of digitization of Mateusz Morawiecki, signed by Janusz Cieszyński, and addressed to Minister Łukasz Schreiber. It is a government project and it is kind of its own opinion for its own project. I have a question as to whether the government has asked additionally, for example. to the Office of Sejm Analysis with a request for an opinion on this law, whether it is the only and exclusive, one can say, the author's opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A month ago, we were discussing this bill. When we adopted this bill, we were talking about adding to the decoders, now we're talking about adding to the TVs. Well, I have a question for the government that in a month's time we will not be correcting this bill again. And I would very kindly ask you to explain in writing how I understand who is entitled to an extra charge for the purchase of television sets. I will quote the text of the article. 3 Act: The provision for the purchase of a digital receiver is entitled to one adult person who is registered in Poland for permanent or temporary residence if the difficult material situation of the household of that person makes it impossible to bear the costs of purchasing a digital receiver on his own, in order to ensure that the household receives digital terrestrial television as standard, without prejudice to the basic needs of the household of that person (the Bell), hereinafter referred to as the person entitled. So does this payment belong to all Poles, or only to Poles who are in a difficult material situation, and how will we calculate it? I ask the government kindly to respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u49	Thank you. I have two questions, Minister. The first question concerns people who have already purchased - often under the influence of an information campaign that has already taken place - a decoder. In many cases they are older people who cannot afford to buy, but they have learned from advertising that these amounts will be reimbursed. Will there be a return mechanism for such persons? The second question, in my opinion, is very valid, concerning a matter already raised here. What does the term "difficulty material situation" mean? How is this to be defined, and who will it apply to? How will you verify this difficult material situation and how do you want to prevent fraud and fraud? Because you can assume that with such a vague definition. This is particularly the case for further provision: preventing operation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can affect absolutely anyone. What did you mean and how do you want to verify it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is so interesting that it's incomplete. Because if we treat television as something that everyone deserves, then the Sejm should just vote that he's gonna give out anybody who comes forward, TVs, and we're done. Or do we view it as a national good? If we treat it as a national good, then we have e.g. TVP World channel. In order to be able to receive it properly as part of streaming, you need the best graphics card and not the provision of a surcharge for buying a new graphics card. Maybe it's time for some self-correction. The same is true with the upcoming premiere of the new witch, which is our national good, and the payment to playstation 5 is somehow not included in the bill, ladies and gentlemen. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] Besides, the basis for existence is a phone that I think everyone needs, and if it breaks down quickly, if we have an old model, you can't even watch some things (the bell), so where are the records on the phone surcharge? This law must be rejected as well as the previous one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. [[It's an xbox, not a playstation. What do you have with this playstation?]] [[I don't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Here's the lobbying.]] [[Voice from the room: Absolutely not.]] The lobbying about playstation is over. Minister! How are you guys gonna run this whole procedure so people can come forward for this money, these extras, and it's gonna be as smooth as it can be? Today we have a PESEL-numbering action for our guests from Ukraine, it is quite cumulative action, and we are about to have, from May, the issue of these additives. That's one question. And two: How can we avoid all conmen who may appear? And we know that in such exchanges, especially in smaller towns, in villages, older people are reached by people who cheat on things. Is there any kind of security? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating an urgent government bill, while, ladies and gentlemen, you had 2 years to implement this law without undue delay. My question is very simple and obvious: Why didn't you involve local government in implementing this law? Today we will have more expensive and everything will be implemented in chaos, because it is all centrally managed. The local government has penetrated the needs of its citizens, the GOPS and ILOS operate, who know best who needs help, so we do not understand at all, and in particular us parliamentarians, who have a local history, why you have not used what has worked very well for many, many years. Please answer in writing why you do not use local government to help implement this law. It's obvious, it's the same thing you're asking to use (the bell) these institutions. We do not understand why it should be more expensive and everything is to be realized in chaos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u56	Thank you very much, too. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This House is famous for writing legislation at the last minute, and we have another example. The first stage of the change in the standard of terrestrial television broadcasting is already planned on 28 March, and on the revision of the provisions on the financing of the purchase of equipment we are only proceeding now. The law in its first form rightly received the voices of criticism, because the amounts offered by you were absolutely insufficient. In this situation, I ask you to answer the question: How do you intend to conduct an information campaign in Lubuskie and Lower Silesian voivodships during these few days, so that people who will have to replace the decoder or television in connection with the introduction of the new standard of television broadcasting will know that it is possible to finance (Dawn) the purchase of the above mentioned. equipment, which means 100 zł to the decoder and 250 zł to the TV? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. Mr Bielsko-Biała.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no more Mr Dziambor, that's too bad. I wouldn't want him to discredit the witches and her fans here in any way, because I don't think this is the place to criticize, but rather to praise. I believe that the law which provides for support for the purchase of new receivers should also support those who watch TV using laptops, phones or computers, and hence my question to the Minister: Do you also provide for the coverage of television tuners, television decoders that connect to computers? That's my first question. And the other. Since there is a very popular producer of Samsung TVs in Poland, and we know that Samsung also owns a factory under Moscow and produces tens of thousands of TVs, do you somehow provide for the exclusion of samsung (Dawn) produced in the Russian Federation from the subsidies provided for in this Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. Good morning, Gniezno.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This law may cost the state budget PLN 620.5 million after the amendment, but as you write in the explanatory memorandum, if more than 4 million Polish family farms, which watch terrestrial television, apply for this grant of PLN 250, it may also be PLN 3.5 billion, as the justification for the government project. I would therefore like to ask, on what basis did you assess that this increase, i.e. the possibility of buying a television receiver to watch digital terrestrial television, will cost PLN 620.5 million. The second question concerns those who, from the date of entry into force of the Act until the amendment, have purchased a television receiver meeting the criteria for watching terrestrial television. Will these people also be able to receive this 250 PLN? Because they made a purchase, not knowing that there would be no refund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u63	The government wants money stolen from taxpayers' taxes, people buy them homemade propaganda machines. I say: propaganda, because, let's remind, according to Polish law, can broadcast either government television, which necessarily broadcasts government propaganda, or television, which has been licensed by the system, so it must broadcast content that does not threaten this system, must broadcast prosystemic, prostablishment propaganda. If you really want to give people access to the so-called. public information, as you call this propaganda here beautifully, you would hand over this money if you had to spend somebody else's money on it to make it easier for people to access the Internet. On the Internet you can also watch TV, but there is still a relative choice and you can also watch other, unlicensed sources of information. Therefore, all parliamentary clubs outside the Confederation support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My first question concerns the amount of PLN 250. The question is, what is the effect of its height? Do you have specific analyses? Today we know that a medium-class TV is an expense of $1,000. zł. Hence the question: Why 250 PLN? If support is dedicated to those most in need, it is good that this amount appears, but it is not sufficient. How do I get money to buy equipment? I would also like to know if you have any analyses on this calculation. What will the verification look like? It is about (the bell) who will receive the funds directly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. I would very much like to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u67	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm teaching criminal law. Every time I talk to my students about criminal law, I refer to the old Roman rule: nullum crimen sine lege, which means there is no crime without legal authority. I'm talking about the fact that statutory dispositions have to be very precise. Criminal law is the area of law in which everything must be clearly defined. This unfortunate bill contains two criminal provisions. One relates to a statement of assets which the beneficiary submits when applying for the payment. There's no specifics in there. The only concrete thing in this provision is that making a statement that is not true is at risk of criminal liability. It's even worse with a recipe that's strictly in this law. It's called a criminal provision. It's about crediting the so-called payments. It's a different target. There's no specifics there, either, except that there's a maximum penalty of two years in prison. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you going to shape the law if, even when it comes to the most important area that is connected with the freedom of the individual, you can't write it in the right way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the question of linking services, namely de facto about the ban on linking services, and about charging for such a form of delivery of equipment. Minister, first question: How will this be verified so that there is no abuse in this area? The second point I want to ask is services that are directly related to delivery, for example. an appropriate decoder that connects to the television receiver and which should be configured later. Will this service be possible, or will that also be unacceptable, when the decoder is delivered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u70	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Television is often the only source of information and entertainment. This is particularly true in rural areas and especially among poor families. This also applies to persons who, as a result of disability, are attached to the place of residence. It's a very good project. I would like to ask you how this project will possibly translate into real help for families who will benefit from these subsidies. If that's possible, Minister, could you tell us more or less how this assistance is going to spread territorially? This is particularly about my region, which is Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's already four, if I count correctly, such a big change in the broadcast standard. The three previous changes were spread over time, and this for technical reasons, i.e. because of the change in the coding method, must be carried out once. It will not be possible to receive the signal simultaneously encoded in the current and new way. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: Will this surcharge be sufficient to supplement (the bell) the income and allow everyone to adapt overnight to the new standards? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u75	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Changing the standard of terrestrial television broadcasting requires adapting the receivers to the new standard of broadcasting. This creates specific costs for households. I would very much like to thank the government, the representatives of the Ministry, for the fact that in these difficult times, when we help those in need, those who may be more than supported households need help, do not forget those who have the right to reliable information. You allow them to purchase decoders or television sets so that they can obtain such information. This is a valuable amendment, a valuable amendment, for which I thank you very sincerely, because actually a surcharge of PLN 250 to purchase a television receiver can be important support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I have a question: When will it be possible to apply for a payment and can people who have already purchased such television sets apply for this payment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u76	Thank you very much. Your questions will be answered by Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u77	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! I will answer your questions one by one, and I will try to address them chronologically. As regards the opinion of this draft law, it was examined as an urgent project. Therefore, you know that this is a special, fast mode. We considered that such a forum at which we will debate and collect opinions on this law is a parliament, as well as a committee of digitisation, during which we adopted amendments. The amendments were unanimously voted, supported by the government, so it seems to us that this quorum in the form of all parliamentary forces and permanent committee experts was sufficient in this context. When he asked the second question, he asked for an answer in writing, and he will, of course, receive such an answer. When it comes to questions in the context of what to do in a situation where someone has purchased before, for example. a new TV meeting the requirements of the new DVB-T2/HEVC system, I would like to say that then we do not foresee such compensation. We thought that citizens who couldn't afford to buy a new decoder or a new TV would receive this compensation from us as soon as we launched the government program. With regard to who will decide which citizens will be supported by the government in the form of aid for the purchase of a TV or decoder, the answer has already been made during this debate. First of all, it was the citizen himself who made this statement. We trust our citizens. We believe that if someone thinks that he cannot afford to purchase a decoder and needs a surcharge of PLN 100 or needs a surcharge for the purchase of a TV in the amount of up to PLN 250 - and raising this amount is a bow towards many citizens - then such a statement will also make us such a statement, with responsibility, enough. I will refer to the questions of the Confederation at the end, because I see that the Members are no longer here. As regards how this law will be implemented, I would like to say that it will be implemented primarily by Polish Post offices to provide assistance to people who are digitally excluded who need support directly from the person who will present to them how he can submit such a request. For those who have no problem with digitization, of course a special system has been launched on the gov.pl portal, i.e. on our Polish digital gate. We've also put in a record of criminalisation. They will help us verify that the seller is deliberately misleading the consumer. Also here we reach for the support of the UOKiK. As regards the question of the use of local governments, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government has prepared a very good system here, which is already functioning smoothly. Together, with the help of the Polish Post, he will carry out these requests efficiently. However, local governments also signalled to us that they now have many other tasks, also related to the war, so I think that here as a government We'll be fine. Very often we work with local governments and I think these allegations are absolutely wrong. The information campaign on how digital television will change has been conducted since last year, since the middle of last year, while since 16 March, ladies and gentlemen, there has already been a detailed information campaign in the mass media that the government will compensate for the purchase of the decoder and provide support for the purchase of the TV. I hope that all those in need will receive this information. As regards the categorisation of models of television sets or decoders in terms of individual brands, ladies and gentlemen, this law does not introduce this categorization. As far as question 9 is concerned, I have already answered that question because Mrs Golbik has asked the same question. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as setting the amount of PLN 250 is concerned, this amount allows us the budget to support the purchase of a TV. This is still an increased amount, so we hope it will be more support. We also know that a citizen is able to buy a decoder that allows him to receive a new broadcasting system for about 100 PLN, so if someone can't afford a TV, then we will encourage him to simply change the decoder. When it comes to trusting citizens, whether they will make statements in truth, we will fully trust citizens. Mr Suchoń has also asked questions, but I do not see the Member, so I will also answer him in writing. Mr Babalski asked exactly how many people would benefit from this assistance. We'll have that kind of knowledge after we've completed the program. Then, of course, we will present to you the figures from your region, from the Warmia-Mazury land, which are specifically the amounts. I would also like to address the question as to whether this is a sufficient amount. Like I said before, I'm sure it's enough to buy a decoder. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I reply to Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko: applications can be submitted from 21 March. As for the questions of the Confederation, we see, Mr Marshal, that the Confederate Members are not present in the Chamber, asked questions and left, so that I do not think they expect our answer. As we can see, the Confederation is very good at attacking the poor, whom the government wants to help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Minister, what about the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u78	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Next briefcase. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Law on Higher Education and Science (prints No. 2090 and 2095). [[Game in the O.R.]] You guys are kind of disturbing me. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No. 2090 and 2095. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 17 March this year. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 22 March this year, asks the High Sejm to... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u80	Excuse me, sir. Gentlemen! Poland 2050! Look, you guys are really bothering you. I ask you kindly, politely, cordially: you want to talk, come out or sit next to each other. You're disturbing us a little bit. [[Voice from the Chamber: We praised the rapporteur for speaking so nicely.]] Yes, but you know, Mr - I respect both very much, like all the Members and all the Members - as if you were here, so that you would hear that this is not helping. Yes, please. Please continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u81	Thank you very much. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt a draft law from print no. 2090 without amendments. Now for some information. The result of the vote on this Commission proposal to amend the law was: 29 Members for, 0 opponents, 1 abstention. Only two records change in this bill. The first, most important, concerns the deletion of the expression directly. The idea was not to make it clear in the law, but to give the possibility that there should be no writing: directly from the territory of Ukraine. There are various types of cases that have found Ukrainians outside the borders. And that's what was proposed in this bill. It was also clarified that it did not come and come to Poland. These are the two major changes. I stress, the committee very much asks that the High Sejm adopt this law without amendments so that there is no extension. It is about time and it is about the fact that there is no doubt about the status of Ukrainians who come to Poland from the area covered by the war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u82	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a law that talks about helping Ukrainian citizens who, for obvious reasons of war, have reached our homeland at the moment and will be here, at least for some time, with us, to wait out this terrible situation in which they are safely. The rapporteur has already said what is good about this amendment, that we approach this subject so that it is possible for the Ukrainian people who are trying to get to our homeland also from places other than just directly from Ukraine, we can also say, sometimes around, by other countries, to include the aid that is provided for in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reflection. I think we can all agree on that. In total, the bill is amended very quickly after its introduction. [[Because you didn't listen to us.]] That's good, because it shows that the Polish government is open to all the activities that unfortunately brings us life. I am convinced, I think that in a moment there may be further amendments just for a very simple reason - because the events that take place in Ukraine are unpredictable. Therefore, it is good that we react quickly, well that we react efficiently, and well, as the rapporteur said, that we react in a way, one can say, of a trans-political nature. The amendments that have been tabled have been tabled under the Commission's amendments, so that the legislative path is quick and, above all, effective. After all, this is what the people of Ukraine expect of us, but also above all Poles expect of us, because they are also, as it were, the beneficiaries of the records that function in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I think none of us have any doubts that helping these people, helping them first of all... As statistics show, as concrete calculations show, it is women with children who are mostly hosted in our homes, hosted in our homeland, and this help is dedicated to them. It is good that all this is going in this direction so that we can provide this assistance as soon as possible and as effectively as possible to those who obviously need it. That is why I think it is also a good idea - and it was suggested by the Minister during our meeting with the bureau of the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration, but it seems to me that this is also, first and foremost, the need for us - that we can create something like maybe not a team, but that the bureau of the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration be in permanent contact with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The point is that we can react if life, the situation in Ukraine, also the situation in Poland suggests that other solutions are needed, which need to be applied efficiently and quickly. I would like to declare, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, that we fully support this proposal for a law, and at the same time declare that we will support other proposals that will appear and which will go in this direction to help Ukraine and also to help Poles who are helping Ukraine. The Law and Justice Club, once again, supports the proposed bill. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition. Oh, you will now have a chance to talk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u85	And you'll hear better, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u86	Yeah, that's right, years fly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, we discussed this law with Mr Zimochem as members of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. Of course, we will not question the provisions of this law. After all, this bill, this amendment of the bill is kind of the essence of our amendments, Minister, which you will agree with. During the readings in the committee, you made it clear that you were against extending the scope of the law, and in fact this law is contained in the two articles we talked about. As an opposition, we have tabled amendments to replace the name - he has come - and above all we have talked about directness. Not only on the committee, but also on this parliamentary platform, these amendments were made, there were appeals to the government, to you, Minister. You could say we're glad you listened to what we were talking about. But believe me, it wasn't just to stick a stick in the spokes. We had this analyzed, we had information from local authorities, what is the situation, how it actually looks. We still have information from local government, we still have information from NGOs, associations that you are missing at the border, government, you are still missing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: At the border?]] Yes. I'm not, of course, talking about Border Guard officers, police officers. I sincerely thank them and we will repeatedly speak of the fact that when it comes to work and service at the border, the sacrifice of officers and officers is boundless, and that is what heartfelt praise is due. However, there is a lack of government in typical cases, in organizing work, in organizing services and helping refugees at the border. Last week I was at the border in Dorohusk, meeting with volunteers, meeting with NGOs. They were always talking about the lack of coordination, the lack of help, everything rests on the shoulders of people who should be doing something different, but in the form of volunteering they help refugees at such a tragic time. The provisions of the Act are very obvious, ladies and gentlemen, and we will not discuss it, we will not make any amendments. After all, we heard what Mr Kalet was talking about, and yesterday at the committee meeting we also discussed this thread that this law will be repeatedly opened, that we will work on this law many times and we will complement it. And I am able to risk the thesis that all these amendments that the Civic Coalition was making during the work on this bill will be right and will be included in the subsequent versions of this law. Because you know perfectly well, Minister, it's not like we made it up. The voices of local governments and NGOs are coming to us, and we are simply writing it down in the form of concrete, good amendments. I hope you won't say that this amendment doesn't make sense that it's pointless that it goes beyond the scope of the bill, but you will listen. And, moreover, you will also receive information from the voivodships that it is worth correcting this bill - not because it is necessary to satisfy the opposition, just because these amendments are necessary to help refugees in local governments to make sense of what it is for. We cannot provide this assistance solely on the shoulders of local government and non-governmental organisations. I hope that during the next debate on this bill, when it is opened... The next opening will be today, in a moment, in the context of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. Yes, we will continue to work on this bill in a moment, once again in this area of social policy, Minister, so you know. We will continue to talk about transports that take place on the Polish-Ukrainian border, large transports, i.e. the trucks that stand at the border. It's really worth the effort. I know that this may go beyond the scope of this bill, but believe me, it also spends a lot of people's nightmares. So that, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to prolong - of course we will support this law, we will support this amendment to it. And I urge the government once again to take a look at these amendments which it originally rejected, those amendments which were notified, which met the expectations of non-governmental organisations and, above all, local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present our position on the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Law on Higher Education and Science. Minister! I'm not gonna criticize the government because we're all learning from our mistakes. None of us knew that so many millions of refugees would go to Poland, and I think that every day brings further solutions that we will have to deal with as a committee, and you as a minister will have to present us with proposals for amendments. I would remind you, Mr President, that, however, this amendment that you are talking about today, for the first time, came out of Mrs Kotula, she was the first to report it at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs when it was first read. Then the amendment was tabled by Mr Tomasz Zimoch. Mr President, you were behind you, please go back to the transcript. And then, because the Platform colleagues said that they were going to report their amendments at the Sejm meeting, you reported them, your colleagues, the second reading, and of course they stayed in the Senate... [[That was the deal.]] That was the deal, but the first amendment came from a friend of Kotula's. Today I can say yes. I am pleased, Minister, that this project is a cross-party project and is a commission project. We have talked about him, and I hope that, as a matter of urgency, we will adopt him, that there will be no amendments to him. This bill gives a chance to many people who have crossed borders - it is not only about the Polish borders, it is about these eight transitions, but it is also about Moldova, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. There are a lot of these people today. I don't think any of us even know if it's gonna be 20, 30, 50, or maybe 100,000. On the date on which these people will appear in the municipality to obtain PESEL, it will be apparent how many people have actually crossed these boundaries and will be helped. During the talks with the Minister and with the voivodships yesterday, at the subcommittee meeting, we still made a change of justification, because the local government, I am talking mainly about the voivodships, do not fully know whether the people who arrived from their holidays came from business trips - after all they crossed the Ukrainian border before 24 February, but the stamp is on departure on 15 or 17 February, and the return to Poland after 24 February - they will also have the right to help those people who have crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border today. With mutual consent, we have completed the justification. The Minister will also prepare a legal opinion which will allow the voivodships, but also the municipalities that will receive refugees today, to benefit from the benefit of the law. At the same time, in this law, with the approval of the Legislative Office, or, in fact, with the request and then with the approval of the government, we changed the word to come, because many people, when the decision was made on a general draft in Ukraine, were getting out of cars and crowds, thousands crossed the Polish border. They came to Poland and did not enter Poland, so it was a matter of detailing it. The idea was that people who flew both by train, would also come by car, as well as enter the Polish border, into Poland, were covered by this law. Therefore, I hope that this law will be adopted today in a quick manner, but at the same time, Minister, as a committee, we declare our willingness to cooperate so that we also have further amendments that have been made by all the clubs that have shown that there is a need for amendment - it will be needed every day, because life brings different solutions - in common consensus, as far as possible, simply accept and proceed as soon as possible. We know that in two weeks' time, according to the Minister, we should have a major amendment. As a colleague from the Civic Coalition Club said, we already have an amendment to the law on foster care prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, so part of what we had, we have help for Polish transport companies, I am talking about railway issues, infrastructure or maritime economy, i.e. helping Ukrainians. The Committee on Infrastructure will debate all of this. We also know that yesterday there was also an amendment from the Health Committee, which also needs to be adopted, because it turns out that the Ministry of Health, or actually the National Health Fund, does not fully know whether health services can be provided on the basis of PESEL. So information about needs will flow to us at any time, and as a committee, we declare that we are ready to work quickly, beyond divisions, as this amendment has shown. Therefore, I would like to say that these are the issues that my club was also looking for, although we know that this does not solve all the problems, because there are families in which parents were foreigners, children have Ukrainian citizenship and, let's say, some have refugee status, help... This issue should also be here, perhaps in other solutions, but I hope that the Minister will mature and accept this amendment as well. My club will vote in favour of this bill, this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u90	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Mark Biernacki, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives of course fully supports the amendment of the bill. This is a committee amendment, which is very important, a law that provides assistance to refugees from Ukraine. I am very happy, I am very pleased that the government, together with the committee, came to a consensus that this amendment could be carried out today. This is very important. In terms of form, it is a small amendment, even a micro, that we would say, but in terms of the subject, of whom it concerns, it covers several thousand people. I know this because as soon as this law was passed, a number of volunteers and representatives of local governments asked me to change the record that was originally, and to make it look just like it looks today. Interestingly, I can also say that former police officers from the Central Bureau of Investigation, even those who fought against the boat octopus, have been very involved in this volunteering, in helping Ukraine and have just received from them information and a request for this kind of change. We have all agreed together that this project will be carried out very dynamically, quickly, without unnecessary discussions and amendments, and I assume that the law itself on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country will be amended several times. The situation is unbelievable, it would seem in the 21st century with the development of civilization that there will be no such situation that there will not be anything as terrible as the destruction of civil cities by the empire. The whole world sees and watches and looks at it and can only help, can help, can help, can help. People volunteer for this help. Therefore, this law, which was originally written very quickly, de facto ad hoc, because otherwise it could not be and had no original, will be corrected, because it must be corrected. Thank you, Mr President, for the declaration made by the Minister that we will not bid, but will improve this project together. The government has already notified us of a great deal of changes that need to be made. I do not hide that I will, and I suspect that most Members in this Chamber have also tried to include refugees from Belarus in the subject area. Today we do not make such an amendment, because we have agreed, although with salami technique, to improve the bill specifically, because this law is important for several thousand people. In conclusion, I wanted to look from a slightly different point of view at the whole issue of our assistance to Ukraine, for the brothers from Ukraine who are alone fighting the Russian aggressor. I hope that those sanctions that are imposed will also be very effective in Poland. I hope that the Ministry of Home Affairs or more financial services verify companies, economic entities owned by Russian oligarchs, because they are. These companies are, in Poland they function, these companies were not affected by sanctions. Nor can we allow this situation to continue to be this way. It can't be that the owner of one of the biggest companies is Putin's locker, his financial and vodka buddy. This situation is unacceptable and the Polish State should not tolerate such a situation. But this is a different range than this one. This amendment of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland, as I said, supports. Thank you, Mr President. Unlike everyone else, I will also thank the Minister for the fact that we could have worked through this, because really many thousands of people were waiting for our quick, effective work. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u92	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u93	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are now acting in a positive, emotional upheaval. We're floating our own magnificence. There is no doubt that helping Ukrainian refugees is morally right, legitimate. We are all united in this matter, contrary to the various media, so to speak, making mouths, among others. Us. However, the economic impact of the regulation also needs to be analysed. The question is whether we are doing this both in the matter of this regulation and in general. At the moment, the dynamics of crossing the Ukrainian border with Poland are decreasing. But the question is, what's going to happen next, is whether this trend is going to change, whether it's going to burn, if it's going to escalate. That's what we have to pay attention to. The regulation extends the provision of assistance to people who have arrived in Poland directly. It's about those people who were on vacation who came through Moldova. However, the direction of aid expansion includes and will also cover refugees who are already in other countries have found safe shelter in Romania or Hungary. The question is whether we should compete in terms of support, in terms of social assistance with other countries, whether we are trying to patch up demographics or whether we are simply pursuing the dream of current governments in terms of recruiting workers. What are the real intentions here? Because if these refugees have already found a safe haven, they should be using it by now. Such a large and sudden movement of the population should not lead to a destabilisation of the political situation. We should also bear in mind this, we should look forward with our regulations, and not just look at what is today, we should take responsible approach to the management of the Polish state. E.g. That's why I'm making an amendment. The Confederation amends the granting of citizenship, which shifts the period of right to acquire citizenship from 2 to 5 years so that we simply do not have such a situation as to destabilize the political situation in the country. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What is 5 years?]] [[Couldn't you have done it sooner? The committee needs to be called.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First of all, the words of appreciation to the rapporteur as a reliable report from the committee meeting, as always a big round of applause. Minister! As in the words of the song known years ago: it was not worth it, it was not worth teasing with the opposition, it was worth to use the hints when proceding over the bill several days ago. Today, this change at an express rate would not be necessary. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 tabled an amendment so that aid would not only be granted to refugees who reached us directly from Ukraine. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee and in plenary, you were in the opposite position at the time. But with some recognition, Minister, you need to change your position. It is a good thing that today, in the bill, we delete the word directly, and the word has come instead of the word come. The aid will also reach refugees who have reached Poland, among others. from Slovakia. Change of position, your attitude is also hope for more effective seismic work with the necessary next amendment. She's coming in, or actually, according to the amendment, she's coming to the Sejm. Poland 2050, our parliamentary circle, will continue to make amendments, to suggest, to discuss in order to create good, transparent rules. We today, in accordance with the agreement, will not make an amendment, but we believe that in the next amendment it is worth it in the article. One paragraph states that whenever the law refers to a citizen of Ukraine, it is also understood that he is not a Ukrainian spouse or a preliminary citizen of Ukraine, provided that he has arrived in the territory of Poland from the territory of Ukraine in connection with military activities carried out in the territory of that State. Why do we think that? This is because the so-called catalogue of cases is clearly introduced in the Ukrainian Citizenship Act of 18 January 2001. land rights, that is to say, citizenship can be obtained through the mere fact of birth in the territory of Ukraine. This is the case, among other things. in such a case, where the child was born in Ukraine in a refugee or asylumt family and did not receive the nationality of any other country or only obtained the nationality of the parent from which the refugee status was granted in Ukraine. In particular, it is worth paying attention to this case, because it concerns political refugees who came to Ukraine from Russia and Belarus. They are already known for the practice of cases where such refugees with small children have arrived in Poland in recent days. According to the article of the Act, as it stands, there is an absurd situation in which the child is covered by the provisions of a special scheme and will receive such assistance and his parent will no longer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many controversy will arise in such cases, and we believe that the adoption of such an amendment will be an important step towards the implementation of the principles of humanitarianism and equality before the law. I'm almost done, Marshal. At the same time, Minister, you know that the Vietnamese Association in Poland has also made such an appeal and has asked us, all Members, to make such an amendment, so that such a provision may be included in the specialty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u96	Thank you very much. My question is whether the Minister has been able to negotiate something with you on the amendment. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I would like to speak, if you don't mind, Marshal.]] You know, your time will come, and I'll be honest, unless it's so important that you have to right now. But there will be questions first. I understand that the Confederate Member is thinking about the amendment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Great, thank you very much. [[You pulled out?]] Don't push it, everyone has the right to everything. We asked him to think. It's okay. [[Voice from the room: Let's wait.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Thirty-five people came in. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left to speak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to thank Mr Wiesław Szczepański and the committee bureau from this point of view for this amendment. These thanks are also due to the Minister for changing his mind, for we presented these amendments during the committee work. We presented them and talked about these amendments. Today we hear that the Polish government is open. We remember that openness. We know how open the bill was. This openness was called impunity+. Therefore, in the next work on this bill, we will be aware of this, Minister, of this. I have a question for the Minister: Has one Polish local government been found - and maybe you will mention the name of this local government - which in this law proposed a provision on impunity+? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u98	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this rarely happens in the Sejm, and I think I should inform you about it: the Member of the Confederation has withdrawn his amendment. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I'm talking to you. You should hear a few bitter words today, just take them manly on your chest and say, "I'm sorry." 2 weeks ago, on 9 March, during the process of investigating this specialty about refugees from this place, I appealed to you and through you to the government to remove directness from the project, the record that was eliminating from support, with the help of thousands of refugees fleeing the war from Ukraine, mainly women, children and seniors. The government didn't listen. You didn't listen, Minister. Because it was our point and we made a complex amendment, you took the matter politically and simply inhumanly. Minister, it was worth listening to the opposition before. Today we would avoid, first of all, an urgent amendment and, first of all, a second, such unnecessary mess in offices and additional stress for refugees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm glad you understood your mistake because it's better, Minister, late than never. We are often volunteers, and our offices are open to the issues of refugees that we help and support. We know the problems facing offices, NGOs or refugees themselves. This daily work leads, Minister, to good solutions. It's just that sometimes it's worth listening to us in a human way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u100	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also want to thank you very much for the fact that today, under these difficult conditions, there is an agreement, a cooperation. There's still a long way to go and a lot of things have to change. I would also like to say how it was in the previous sitting, when, well, one of the members of the PIS criticized me for reading the text I received. It was precisely about people staying in our country who were very, very afraid of what would happen to them, because they did not come directly from Ukraine to Poland. That's fortunately changing, which I'm happy about. I hope that such unsympathetic comments will not be like those I heard then, e.g. So let's not worry too much about the fact that these people have a problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, it was about our neighbouring countries. Let's not do this again. Only one sentence, if the marshal will allow it. We have a lot of work to do, for example. about those who had international protection. They can't go back to their country because they have refugee status, and they wouldn't feel safe in their country. That's another topic that we're going to have to take care of, too. I believe this will happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u102	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I would like to say that there is one more word in the bill that needs to be deleted. That word is maybe. And it concerns voivodships, probably in § 11, where it is said that voivodship can provide assistance to refugees. That should be clear. In a situation where no one can, the voivode must. This must be clearly written down, because this problem must have its unambiguous host. This also means adding that the voivode is responsible for the relocation of refugees. In a situation of exhaustion of housing resources... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know you disagree, but then, as far as the word is concerned, you didn't agree to cross it out either. Consider it. We are also talking about practical issues. The amendment of this law gives this opportunity. Ask the Minister of Education to calculate urgently how much the municipality can get (the bell) per preparatory department. The point is that education by adding children who do not know Polish does not go to individual school departments. Preparatory teams must be set up. We're gonna have the end of the month soon, which is why we need to add the preparatory teams to the SIO. This is an urgent matter, or the month will run away. And the municipalities are scared because they don't have any money. This is a very practical thing, which is why I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs... Gabriela Lenartowicz - I'm sorry, my language is confused - the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u105	My name is always a challenge to emissions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u106	No, this time, my fellow Member, I have fallen on my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u107	Yes. Thank you very much. I would like to show all doubters such a simple example of what absurdity we have been dealing with in the previous record. I'll quote the letter that came in to me. Since 9 March I have been helping an eight-person family from Ukraine who arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland from Odessa. These are four women and four children. Two young moms and children aged 9 months, two girls - 3, 4 years old and a ten-year-old girl, as well as two middle-aged and elderly ladies. In Ukraine, women left their husbands, sons and grandchildren. The family came to Poland with their cars. Due to the geographical location of Odessa, young women who were drivers chose the route from Poland through Moldova, Romania and Slovakia. Before leaving Odessa, the family stayed in the shelter. Importantly, the choice of the route to Poland was dictated by safety considerations. From Odessa to the border with Moldova, the family drove (Dawn) through the territory of Ukraine 80 km, while in the case of a direct road to Poland it would have to go through the territory of Ukraine 900 km. And that's the fundamental difference. These families wanted to come to Raciborz right away because their aunt lives there. And I would like to point out: one of these young women is experienced in the fight against a pandemic doctor, who immediately started helping Poles in the infectious branch of the Racibor hospital. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u108	Thank you very much, Member. Now I invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all know that this bill will be amended again, because it will force circumstances that we do not yet know and which we do not yet know. However, on this occasion we must remind you that, in the case of this amendment, when we were working on this law, we knew in advance that this problem would be and that it would have to be resolved. It is very good that the Minister and the Government have changed their views on this matter and this amendment has been adopted, but it is important to remind them that we knew about this problem in advance, and it would be good to avoid such errors in the future. But I have two specific questions for you, Minister. Namely, do you not see the need to change the record that says that the person who intends to apply for the PESEL number should do so within 60 days of arrival? We already know what the situation (the bell) is regarding the transmission of the PESEL number. There are a large number of people involved, weak infrastructure and lack of human resources in this area. So do you consider such a change, and will it be considered? Second thing. It is known that this bill is to be amended in about two weeks. Could you remove the hack of mystery that you're planning in this bill? What changes are you considering writing there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Riad Haidar, the Civic Coalition. Nice to see you, Riad. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u112	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u113	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! Perhaps I will take the floor on a completely different point. It is well known that the issue of the security and treatment of refugees from Ukraine is a daily issue, but I would like to touch the problem which emerged as a result of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Namely, it is the fate of students studying privately, for their money, coming from other countries, from different countries of the world. These students are now going to Poland. The point is, they have 15 days to leave our country. Well, Minister, isn't it just so humanly logical and even economical that these students... They're not immigrants who want to flood the world with their ideologies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They just want to continue their studies. Firstly, there will be an additional income for us and perhaps also an additional income and place of employment for teachers from Ukraine. I would ask you very much to pay attention to this, because this is really a drama for these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u114	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not thank you for this amendment to the Minister, because it is a duty to correct the mistakes we have witnessed. It was also a duty to listen to the opposition's voices. I would like to believe that these invitations to change this law together, and the declarations that fall out of the mouth of the politicians of Law and Justice today, that the voices of the opposition will be heard, were true, although experience teaches that you still believe that you know better and that you do not need to listen to the opposition. I was wondering if you knew that since 4 March, i.e. many days before this law was adopted, there was an executive decision of the Council of the European Union, which made it clear how to proceed in this matter, that the law must be symmetrical in all European countries, that refugees should move freely throughout the territory of the European Union... [[Voice from the room: They can.]] ...before they finally choose the place (the bell) of their destiny. [[Voice from the hall: How many refugees did they take?]] A whole bunch of concerned Poles, people taking care of the Ukrainians' families, who talked about it, went through my office... [[Voice from the hall: How many refugees have we received?]] ...what a problem it was to leave the territory of Ukraine. They talked about a situation where people were fleeing simply to avoid passing through territory under bombs falling from the sky right at them, taking the shortest route. And these people. then you said that you had no right to rely on help in Poland. [[Voice from the room: No, it is not!]] I am glad that also those refugees from the war-covered Ukraine, who were leaving with the intention of getting to Poland, entered their family members, but got across a border other than the Polish-Ukrainian border, will be able to count on help that they will not be treated differently than so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir, thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From this point I would like to thank all local authorities, local authorities from Jelenia Góra, Legnica, Zgorzelca, Bolesławec, Kamenna Góra, Jawora, Polkowice or other communes throughout Poland for doing everything they can to accommodate our friends from Ukraine who today find themselves in a situation where none of us would like to find themselves, which is uncomfortable. Minister! You're announcing further modifications to this bill, and we're all aware that we have to do this. I would like to ask what it looks like to work with local governments, with those closest to them, with the voivods. Will these voices that reach from them be included in the subsequent amendments to the Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u119	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have said in this Chamber that it is wrong to take the help of only those Ukrainians who come to Poland directly. The government had twice the chance to withdraw from this: first, taking into account the opposition amendment and then taking into account the Senate's position, but you did not listen and during these 2 weeks Ukrainians who had reached Poland through Romania, Moldova, Slovakia, could not count on help. [[A voice from the room: No! They had help. That's not true!]] Minister! They hide passports or even consider going back to Ukraine and moving back to Poland so as not to feel like second-class refugees here. Why didn't you want to take this amendment into account in the past two weeks? Or what? Were you afraid that there would be citizens of a different color through Romania, or maybe even another religion? You're racist, and as you can see, even the war at our borders can't change that. [[Voice from the hall: No, Mr. Marshal, please call this foolish person to order.]] You don't care what happens to refugees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the time at the Polish-Belarusian border, Minister, human rights are being violated. And you have a racial segregation policy. Shame on the whole world, Minister and all the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u120	Miss, I'm not supposed to comment on anything, but I don't think it's a good atmosphere. [[But it's real, Mr. Marshal, and you can't turn a blind eye to the truth, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Give an example.]] I won't question your words because I have no right... [[Thank you, Marshal.]] ...but I'm asking you kindly, all of you, to be self-conscious. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to what Mrs Claudia Jachira said, I would like to say that it is true that human rights are violated every day on our Polish-Belarusian border and that there are refugees, including refugees. from Syria, a country which, from the same aggressor, has experienced the same thing that Ukraine is now experiencing. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the law itself, to say that the European Union's implementing decision at the beginning of March this year concerns everyone fleeing Ukraine, not only Ukrainian citizens, but also foreigners who had a residence card in Ukraine who had a life there. He went to my parliamentary office, e.g. Yemen's citizen, who cannot return to Yemen in any way because he is threatened with death there, who has lived in Ukraine for 9 years (the Bell) and lived a normal life there. It is similar with other people, with foreigners who simply had a life arranged in Ukraine and cannot return to their country of origin. This issue will need to be regulated so that they can find themselves here in Poland and live a normal life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u122	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. [[Member of Bielsko-Biała.]] Yeah, that's right. I know that, and we respect that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! He is Mr Wiesław Szczepański. He has already received many compliments, but I think it's worth highlighting his skills, his diligence, his sensitivity and his ability to convince him to be right. So that once again great bows, Mr President, for what you did and for this amendment, because my parliamentary office in Bielsko-Biała also received signals, people came to help people who had reached our country in an indirect and not directly manner. Today's a chance to finally settle this case. And regardless of whether someone was directly or indirectly sent to Poland, they will receive this support. I have a question for the government on this occasion. Do you consider - because such ideas also appear (the bell), it seems to me that they are right - to stop freight transport taking place on the Polish-Belarusian border, and that is all that is to go to the East, to transport through border crossings with Ukraine? I think it would be an interesting idea for the trucks going to Russia to pass through the Lviv, through Kiev, if they want to reach Moscow or beyond. I think the Ukrainian side will know exactly what to do with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This bill, this amendment of the specialty, is precisely the dimension of cooperation, cooperation between the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, whose head is Mr Wiesław Szczepański, and the government party, which is represented by Minister Wąsik. I think that at this time this law should be adopted in such conformity in order to quickly resolve matters that are important for refugees. This law also solves the problem of those who have returned from abroad, Ukrainian citizens who have been resting in different places around the world. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, as of today, such data are available, how many such people will be affected by this new solution, the people who have arrived and are with us, and will be able to benefit from this speciality. The second thing Katarzyna Kretkowska has already said. I would like to ask for written information about the status of people who fled to Poland before the war in Ukraine and are not Ukrainian citizens. I mean students, employees and everyone else. Because these people are reporting to our offices. So this written information will be very useful for us in our parliamentary activities. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u126	Thank you very much. This is how I listen to the words of my appreciation to Mr Wiesław Szczepański and I think I want to be like Mr Szczepański. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's a war abroad. Refugees in need of help, people frightened, without any luggage, who fled under the influence of war. It's a disaster. And where was our government that probably knew about this attack before? It wasn't, ladies and gentlemen, because the weekend was coming. [[Voice from the hall: Jesus... weekend.]] And fortunately, people, Poles opened their hearts and took care of these refugees. They took them into their homes under their roofs, shared everything they had, impressing the whole world, not looking, not thinking what's gonna happen next week, two or three. They just saw that there was someone standing there who needed help. How many people have actually crossed our borders, no one knows because they were all offered help. This could not be demanded of our society, while the government (The Bell) was hiding under the table. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] It is a good thing that this amendment was introduced today because it aroused a lot of controversy. But why did it just happen during the revision? It could have been done right away for the first time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u128	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Why did it have to be so that at this session of the Sejm we repair what none of the reasonable parliamentarians wanted to spoil? After all, the opposition called for no differences to be made and no people to be divided into better and worse. How do you feel today, Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, about reducing aid for refugees? A few days ago, during the press conference, the Deputy Minister explained that Poland as a country is not able to provide 100% refugees from Ukraine have adequate benefits that other countries: Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, to which refugees go, have certain obligations towards them. Because the financial aid provided for in the Act also supports Poles who welcome Ukrainian citizens into their homes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the Poles who, with their human attitude, carry out the task of providing assistance and support to visitors from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would once again like to express my words of greatest respect, appreciation and thanks to all those who so beautifully support our friends from Ukraine. I live in Chelm, 20 kilometers from the border. I'm either at the border every day, either at the border crossing point or at the train station or at the reception point. There are other people coming now. Those who arrived at the beginning had cars, had financial resources, in many cases they had already been to Poland. Today there are people who have seen the tragedy of this war, who have been maimed. Last Sunday I spoke to my family from Mariupola, who traveled for a week. I don't want to tell you what kind of condition they were in, but pretty much everybody's in today's condition. Today we (the bell) as a state and a nation face a great challenge, before the exam of humanity. I therefore call on you, Minister, to take these amendments which the opposition is proposing very seriously into account. Many of these amendments are really needed today. If you had taken this amendment into account at the previous session of the Sejm, this point would not need to be debated today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The war in Ukraine has shown great solidarity with this country, us, Poles, and not only, and great help. However, the weak links of this assistance unfortunately lie on the side of the government and this weak link is, Minister, the border. I know, because I'm going to Ukraine, sending help there. To send help and to return, you must, ladies and gentlemen, go through eight goals. It is really difficult to fit in one day, especially to escape the so-called. a curfew. And this is not due to the bad will of customs officers, but to the lack of coordination and cooperation with the Ukrainian party. I'm really asking for it. Second line. I can't really understand these lines of women with children at the border, especially on the Ukrainian side. [[Voice from the hall: But it's on the Ukrainian side.]] Another case of lack of coordination. Isn't it really possible to make sure that these women and these children don't have rain on their heads? Wasn't it snowing? [[Voice from the hall: Ukrainian border guard.]] So that's what the government service (the bell) is for this coordination to be. [[Voice from the room: What coordination?]] And the last point, ladies and gentlemen, is that there has been no coordination in the relocation of refugees since they crossed the border. Seriously, these people don't know where they're going or what's gonna happen to them. I ask you, Minister, to coordinate these three points. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u134	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Already at the process stage of the bill a few days ago, we drew attention to the need for a different formulation of rules and deletions or additions. Besides, it was also the demands of local governments. Today, life itself forces such changes to be made. I will only draw attention to one example of life taken from Sosnowiec, where the football team from Ukraine arrived. Unfortunately, it cannot learn together with students of the sports school we have in the city, because the regulations prevent it, because it is not possible to create preparatory branches, among others. in sports schools or art schools, and the school meets all the conditions, it is ready to accept these students. Therefore, the request that we proceed to make these rules more flexible and enable local authorities to make such decisions (the bell) because it is life that forces us to make such changes. Therefore, my question: When will we proceed with further proceedings and subsequent amendments to the legislation? Because this is just one of many examples. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u136	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My office in Bielsko-Biała was also visited by refugees from Ukraine, who first arrived in Hungary. But they didn't want to stay there. We are all aware of why they didn't want to stay there, so this rule that the High House is working on today is absolutely justified. We cannot leave refugees from Ukraine in the hands of a Russian sidekick, and this de facto is Orbán. So these rules should be the same as they're going to be today after this change. And, of course, thank you for that change of approach. The question, on the other hand, concerns the situation in schools. Unfortunately, Ukrainian students are forced to choose between online lessons from Ukraine and lessons in Poland, which take place at the same time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask for a clear position of the government, which will stand behind flexibility, so that the Ukrainian children do not miss out on hours of lessons. Online at home at home school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Great words of thanks for the quick amendment of the law. I'm sure there's gonna be a lot more of that because we're working on a hot topic, on a hot body. The reaction is very important. And for what you're preparing and doing for refugees for coordination. I had a coincidence that two weeks ago two families from my county were encouraged to do so - they were in my village - two moms with four children. They left for one of the countries of western Europe and returned this Sunday. I'm asking the person they're hosting, why. We were located in a center with refugees, immigrants from the Middle East and Africa - they say - and we could not cope together in one large group, but here we had safety and guaranteed conditions of safe operation. There will certainly be many such actions, many different changes needed and thank you very much for that, because it is very important that we create the conditions in which they feel safe as people who need support, especially women and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law and its amendment are extremely necessary. But it's worth remembering that we wouldn't have to deal with this bill today, if it weren't for Minister Wąsik's donkey stubbornness less than two weeks ago, this issue would have been settled. [[Voice from the room: Why? Why?]] Minister! You must have known that. Rabka has a more than 30-person group from a child's home since March 1, which has crossed the border through Slovakia. You must have known about such examples. And why did you insist when we asked you not to just do it? Members of the PiS! Why didn't you accept our argument and reject our amendments three times - and those from the Senate, and those during the committee work? The result of the law passed 2 weeks ago in this shape is that last week thousands of people drove from different corners of Poland to the Polish-Ukrainian border (Dzwonek), so that for 5 minutes or an hour, or 3 hours cross the border and return to Poland. This is the result of your work. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Why this malice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Assistance to Ukrainian citizens is necessary and urgent. We're working on this bill, we're updating the bill that's just been passed. It shouldn't have happened. Members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs have tabled amendments that you did not want to vote on. Of course you were, Minister, against it. Why all the fuss? What did you need it for? Who needs it that we're wasting so much time right now to sit and process this bill? There is great respect and respect for officers and officers, and above all for the organization of public benefit. It would be good for you to start listening to the local government because you don't hear their voice very well. I believe that the payment of 40 PLN per person (the bell) only after 30 days is far too long a waiting time. And the other thing. For a refugee who can receive 300 PLN of aid, the fact that he has to set up a bank account is also another major obstacle. Local government units, on the other hand, would certainly do well to distribute these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u145	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It has been 10 days since the compromise on the war in Ukraine. It's been a long time until we lasted 10 days so there wouldn't be a Polish-Polish war. What a feat. I remember when there was a millennium flood in 1997, the opposition attacked the government every day that they didn't do something. The opposition knew better what water would do to cities in Poland. Today, the opposition knows better how to manage 2 million people in 30 days. Everybody knows better. Why can't we have some kind of agreement on important matters for Poland? That's one thing. Secondly, I wanted to ask the Minister what benefits are there in other countries that have adopted the Ukrainians. Because if there are no benefits such as in Poland, e.g. PESEL, treatment options, going to school, etc., they will come here, e.g. $500,000. - not 10, 500,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then there's the question of how to make these people work. That'll be 2,600 grand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that after this discussion it is necessary to remind that this is a committee project. There was consensus, there was full agreement. What's the point of being mean, and what's the point of saying it? Are you all really so great, never wrong or have no doubts? What's that for? You guys just put up with the moment so you don't get back at somebody. I told you, it's so low. It's so low. I repeat, the commission project, that's where it was agreed. And you know perfectly well, here were these words, that the dynamic situation in Ukraine, in general unpredictable, will cause that this amendment is neither the first nor the last, but there will be plenty of them. Minister! Thank you for your willingness to bend over, perhaps after a short time, over this amendment. Question at the end: Do we know the scale, the number of people affected by this amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u148	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u149	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The world has changed since February 24th, and it will never be like it was before. For some, time moves fast, especially for those who help, because they want to do even more, and time is not enough. For those who have come to our country, time flows slowly, the cage by frame are replayed by events, what they have survived. Ladies and gentlemen! The government of the Republic of Poland is constantly responding, preparing solutions that facilitate local governments, Poles, NGOs as effectively as possible providing support to those who need this support. Self-governments carry out their duties. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the local government of Brest County, which is a district - less than 100,000. - he's already taken over 2.5,000. refugees and manage support efficiently. I would like to thank all the voluntary firefighters who continue to support refugees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I have a question for you. The citizens of Ukraine who came to Poland earlier and are running out of permission to stay in Poland come to my parliamentary office. What about people like that? Will they also be able to count on the support provided by the Law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current legal status is consistent with international law, with relevant conventions and agreements and results from different other provisions of international law. This amendment goes beyond this international standard, it requires some analysis and even consultation in the European Union, sometimes with countries outside the European Union. Minister! Are there any further amendments planned, changes in this regard? Because I understand that this law was quite quickly processed and there was no time for these amendments to go beyond international law (the Bell), while some historical considerations indicate that we should provide these people with a higher standard than international law. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. Mr. Chairman of this club, my boss. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to try to add to our discussion the question of one specific group, I am talking about students and graduates of higher education. There are more and more voices that students who finish their studies, who end their stay, do not have support and are not covered by additional regulations that would regulate their stay in Poland. In addition, a large part of students' families, among others. students studying in Bydgoszcz or in many other Polish metropolises. These students are trying to bring their families together, which is quite natural, and there, on the spot, get a PESEL number. Unfortunately, there are often problems with the fact that this timespace is expanding, so I wanted to ask what ministry is doing so that these proposals can be submitted more quickly and that the whole procedure could take place more quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Indeed, the situation is very dynamic. War refugees fleeing Ukraine through the amendment of this law will receive assistance regardless of where they crossed the border. If they want to live, become involved in life in Poland, everyone will have the same chance. My question concerns the time which may pass from the time of crossing the border in another country to the time of residence in Poland. Are there any deadlines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you, too, for the outstanding chairman of the Sejm Administrative Commission of Wiesław Szczepański. Minister! Don't take Wiesław to the government, and if anyone wants to go to another committee... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...then I say right away that such a chairman we, Members of the Administrative Commission, will not give to anyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u158	Mr Szczepański, I kindly inform you - there is no way that Mr Szczepański will go to the government. I'm cutting off these distractions. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Something's going on, Mr. Chairman, I think.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who knows who knows?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u159	But, if you don't mind, Minister, three questions. You know that our circle prepares a lot of amendments, presents them, but three questions from voters during this discussion. First question, legal counsel: Can you, as well as Maciej Wąsik, press the ZUS with a question about when there will be a 500+ format adapted to the law on helping citizens of Ukraine? For now it is general for foreigners, which requires among others. Annex (Bell) in the form of a document confirming the entitlement. Next question: What about the nostrilization of diplomas in relation to artistic schools? They say we have a bunch of teachers who could teach in art schools. And also the question of what I signaled a week ago at the committee meeting - today it is a question from local government officials from border areas. Isn't it worth putting into C.P.A. the optional possibility of suspending administrative proceedings for up to 120 days in the municipalities where the border crossing points are located? These self-governments are now burdened with a lot of extra work and a lot of other responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u161	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I host at home four people from Ukraine, i.e. Mom, grandma and two kids. I believe that this is the best way to help these people, because it allows them to quickly assimilate here in Poland. From this point I would like to draw the attention of the Minister that it is necessary to improve the process of reception of refugees in Polish and Polish homes, because these places are simply not enough and many refugees sleep, for example. in the gymnasiums. Local governments face many logistical challenges, and it is also on their shoulders that they find houses for refugees. I believe that the government and the voivodships should help the municipalities by taking part in the coordination tasks. And here I put forward three concrete requests: firstly, the introduction of a single questionnaire of notifications for all municipalities, secondly, electronic accommodation bases for individual voivodships, because the bases at the level (Ring) of the municipalities are simply too small, and, thirdly, the information campaign addressed to Poles and Poles, because many people would like to accept refugees, but they simply have some concerns. A list of the most common questions and answers should be prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u162	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Better late than never. It's a good thing we're back to the Civil Coalition's amendment. It is good that we are proceding this law because it is impossible to distinguish refugees from Ukraine, to divide them into those who have directly crossed the border with Poland, and to those who have crossed the border from other countries. It was a good thing, only a pity for those days, it was a pity that refugees who had already been to Poland had to cross the border again. But it is good that we are proceeding with this bill, and I hope that it will be adopted by the High House as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u164	Thank you. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. Please, dear Peter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It is good that we are correcting the bill, wrong that we are not listening in committee - I am addressing Minister Wąsik - because we have made all these comments. The Commission stands at the level of the task and improves the law to give a chance to all those who have crossed a non-Polish-Ukrainian border. And for that great thanks to the whole committee. Secondly, I would also like to thank all those who provide assistance, including those who do not have powers today. In the Lubinsk district, for example. we run a centre in Osiek, more than 300 tons of aid transferred to the border, but we are also increasingly helping those who are on site. There are thousands of such centres in Poland. And here's a question for the Minister. A lot of people talk about it, ask what's gonna happen after two months. During these two months these benefits will be granted by the voivod. For example: municipality of Ząbkowice Śląskie - 70% all refugees are in the homes of our citizens who are not sure whether the voivode will possibly prolong this assistance during the crisis. I'm asking for an answer on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to all volunteers - huge thanks for the great, great work for refugees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Thank you for the good word, I'm already scared that Mr. Marshal wants to take my chair and wants me to sit there. If he wants to switch with me... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha! That's good.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Interesting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u168	Mr President, I will tell you this: there are times of war, there must be stability. [[Voice from the room: Time is running.]] There you go, sir. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u169	Thank you kindly. Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to address this amendment. This amendment could be voted on as early as last week. Let me remind you that the bill could be passed on Friday. On Monday we spoke with the Minister - I am talking about last week - and if there was a Senate meeting, this bill would have been amended last week. [[Applause]] There was no Senate meeting, the Senate is only sitting today. We were ready as a committee to consider it last week in case there was a Senate meeting. That's not the way it was. On the other hand, I have a request and two questions for the Minister. Well, Minister, we have a regulation issued on this fee of 40 PLN. Unfortunately, however, there is freedom there, and I have a question as to whether the government should be more specific, so that the voivodships have equal rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it says that every voivode will be able to interpret differently to whom to simply give an amount greater than 40 zlotys. Shouldn't it be divided into categories so that there is no freedom, because in one voivodeship it will be 100 PLN, in the other - 70 PLN, in the third... Are there simply any guidelines according to which there is some amount that cannot, say, simply exceed? Another question. When we can expect - you talked about this on the committee - a million or more leaflets addressed to the Ukrainians, informing about the emergency phone number, where to call, where to find? It is most necessary so that these people simply know how to move in Poland today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u170	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The BAS opinion states that the adoption of these amendments will result in the granting of the rights provided for by these provisions to citizens who, since 24 February 2022, came to Poland from the territory of Ukraine through other countries. The amended regulations concern employment without competitions at universities, at the Polish Academy of Sciences, research institute, Łukasiewicz Centre or at an institute operating in the Łukasiewicz Research Network. Minister! Are there any estimates of what group of people, refugees, will be affected in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u172	Thank you very much. Last question, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, first of all, about the number of Ukrainian citizens who have crossed the borders of the European Union which are not Polish borders and which are affected by this amendment. Second line. Minister, the numbers of PESEL are now being given to Ukrainian citizens. Among these already more than 2 million citizens, a very large part of whom, 700,000, children, are also people who could power the labour market. And here's the question: Is there a research going on, or are there surveys to synchronize it with the needs of the market, with the operation of labour offices, so that people who are needed to work without undue delay find this work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u174	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would very much like to thank all of you, in particular the members of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration and the Bureau, for their swift action for understanding, for being able to proceed with this urgent amendment in agreement so quickly. Of course, it came here, mostly at my address, a lot of strong and bitter words. I will say this - I said this at the committee meeting - it is not a sin to err, it is a sin to be stuck in error. The arguments presented are convincing, and as a result of the consultation with the voivodships, with the local government, with our political background, because we also had a lot of calls from Members, we made this decision and joined together... This is, of course, not only about the Members of our camp, but also about the Members of the opposition, their calls on this matter. We have decided to change this situation. I thank the committee for its very quick, very efficient action. It's worth noticing, I think. Thank you very much, Mr President, for withdrawing this amendment, which will actually allow for a more efficient adoption of this amendment. Let me put it this way: of course, this bill will be updated in two weeks' time. And I wanted to remind you of your work on this bill. We worked pretty fast at the last session of the Sejm. It wasn't like the government said it was a bill and it wasn't left or right, it was nothing. We accepted a lot of amendments, both the Left, Platform and the Civic Coalition, as well as the Polish People's Party. There were also a number of amendments by Mr Tomasz Zimoch, who actually came with an impressive package. They weren't all good, sir. We are listening to the opposition, of course, but remember that it was the amendment of your club that closed access to the medical professions for the Ukrainians. [[That's not true, that's not true!]] We opened it, and you tabled an amendment that de facto closed it. Therefore, it is worth discussing these amendments, and it is worth analysing them. Not all the amendments that your lawyers or your constituents will make to you are perfect, but we'll be like we talked about... It is worth talking about, especially in the situation in which we are in. Consensus is important. I think it's important. That is why I am announcing that we are really planning an amendment in two weeks' time. It's not gonna be an amendment that's gonna knock this bill over. This will be an amendment that will improve certain rules that patch the gaps that appear in normal everyday practice. We're listening to local government and voivodship here. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's been four weeks since the war started, if I count correctly. We've already got over 2150 grand. people who crossed the Ukrainian-Polish border. I'm gonna answer the questions that were coming from the gym right away. We do not know how many people came to us through Romania, Hungary, Moldova or Slovakia. We don't know because we don't have a border system on the border with Slovakia or with the Czech Republic. We do not have what we have at the external border of the Union, where every person who comes from Ukraine is registered. At least in theory, because in some situations there could have been derogations when there was a big crowd at the border and it was speeded up briefing, especially for women and children. And I don't know, but we'll do the math, among other things. That's what the PESEL system is for, there are other systems, like the Border Guard Registry, to count and sort it all out. Therefore, the fund that we have adopted is an open fund. He doesn't have a top limit, could be a deposit. We are also waiting for payments from the European Union, because according to the information I have, no payments have occurred despite the Union's declaration of small amounts. That's definitely not enough. But we will talk and talk to our EU partners and about it. We know how much Turkey got in 2015 and later, and we expect Poland to receive adequate money in this regard. I would like to tell you that this bill had to enter into force so quickly, because local government officials, voivodships and NGOs were waiting for money. As a government, we've ordered a lot of services to pay for. We can't afford those people waiting for money. On Friday, the first tranche of transfers was sent to the voivodships, and then (the bell) to local governments. That was, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 750 million. 750 million PLN has been transferred to the first needs to be met. But I repeat: this is a situation that has never happened before in any armed conflict, such a huge migration of people, so many refugees. In many of your speeches, the word "relocation" fell. We, as a Polish government, oppose what was in 2015, or forced relocation. Ladies and gentlemen, every day from Przemyśl, Krakow, Katowice or Warsaw trains go to Germany, Munich. There are buses even to Switzerland, to other countries. And they're leaving, but we oppose forced relocation, realizing... [[But relocation has to be.]] But this relocation is still going on, it's still underway. We are aware that today we have at the border... This is the data from the day before yesterday, yesterday -- I probably don't care about text messages, but I didn't read it -- we had 30,000. people at the border, which is about to drop to a level of twice as high as in normal times. The summit at the border is 142,000, the day before yesterday we had 30,000. The situation is calmed. At all stations there is a fire department that directs traffic, ensures liquidity, appropriate conditions. Voivodeships provide buses. We have a lot of problems with people. They're just people, they come in shock a lot. Sometimes they have some strange information that they can live here in hotels, and when they come to a folk house in the commune, they are a little disappointed. That's the situation, that's the situation, we're aware of it. I would like to say this: the only place where there really is such a big camp is Nadarzyn, where we have about 10,000. persons. We avoid such things for the time being, realizing that in the long term, we can't... It will be terribly tiring for these people. We realize that the best places are, of course, places in Polish families who receive these people, so we have the benefit of 40 PLN for Poles to support them in this difficult work. It's the most important way to locate these people. This benefit is provided for two months for a few reasons: A - it costs huge money, and we do not have the support of the West; B - we want these people to become independent. They must ultimately become independent if the situation in Ukraine lasts longer. We are aware that we have opened up a labour market for them and they will have to benefit from it. We'll see what happens. We've got plenty of time. I'd like to reassure you. It was here, perhaps on the part of President Szczepański, a suggestion to give very strict guidelines to the voivodeships. We've given guidelines, but we have to leave them some freedom to make decisions because they've been made in a thousand local governments. Some local authorities at the beginning contracted seats for PLN 100, for PLN 120. We're not gonna pay them for this? No. We're supposed to pay them, understanding the situation that was. We have a 40 PLN rate with the possibility of some derogations, because there is a possibility of derogations. It is because we realize that it's better if we don't move these people every week because price conditions are changing. Sometimes it is worth to pay 5 PLN or ask someone, government or other sponsor, private, to pay the guest house for holding these people. We have a lot of situations, there aren't two of the same ones, which is why there has to be some flexibility. I would like to thank here, ladies and gentlemen, a group of people we often talk about, but who we rarely thank. These are our voivodships. These are the people who actually worked 24 hours a day at the time for seven days who coordinated a lot of things. Sometimes it's better, sometimes it's worse, but I think that this situation they've mastered now, coordinated, looks good, even very good. Nowhere do we have situations that could be said to be a humanitarian disaster. No, we were far from it. I would very much like to thank the city presidents for their enormous work, for their good coordination. It was a lot of nervousness. We know these situations are different, but we work together whether we're from here or from here. There's work, we listen to them, they listen to us, we exchange views, we coordinate. And, of course, volunteers, NGOs. Ants that work in many places every day. It is their great success - also their huge thanks. I would also like to thank the parliamentarians for their extremely hard work in recent days. I am convinced that we will have even more work in a moment, and I hope for good cooperation - I hope that in the greatest possible consensus despite the differences that divide us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, you could also thank the Marshal of the Sejm who gave you six more minutes. That's all I wanted to say. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: First time.]] First time because you deserved it. No, it's a joke, maybe not the funniest one. Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera. Would you like to speak? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly. From the very beginning, I have the honour to be, in accordance with the committee's decision, the rapporteur of this important bill, and I can only ask that we continue to do what we have done from the very beginning - I confirm the cooperation of the president, the bureau and the members of the committee and the good atmosphere - to maintain as long as possible. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a challenge for Poland, a challenge that no one has undertaken. We are doing this as a country, as Poland, and what Minister Wąsik has done at the moment, thanking many entities, many people, is absolutely right. Because just as Poland we have met this challenge absolutely and it is a great thing that not only we appreciate, but also the world looks at us - these are not big words, this is the real situation. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge crowd of people who came to Poland not because she wanted to go on vacation. That's forcing the situation. The key to what will happen in the coming days and weeks is not in Warsaw, it is not even in Berlin or Washington, it is only in Moscow. Let us be aware that the cooperation of the whole civilization, which, however, wants peace and peace in the world, is of great importance. Therefore, as rapporteur, I ask - let us keep this as long as possible. Let's not look for differences, because there will really be these problems. There's a lot more. However, let us signal that we are able to continue to work in this capacity, and what Minister... I am working and I see, and so with the President, we see that many really sensible amendments are being made, but there are also those that may be going too far, which is why they are not accepted by the parliamentary majority. It's not a bad will, it's just working together and looking for the maximum solution. So, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this opportunity to speak, and I also maintain that we really stand by this declaration that has already been made. It is clear from the words of the President, the Minister, that we will probably have to bend over this law again to respond to the needs of the situation that will take place. That is why it is so important that we stick to the consensus as long as possible and do not look for differences here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't argue. I'm closing the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We're in time, we've even got five minutes to spare, but we're still gonna start the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the urgent government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country (prints Nos 2100 and 2101). I would like to ask Mrs Ursula Ruseck to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on an urgent government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law aims to create a specific regulation providing a legal basis for the keeping in the electronic system of records of minors of Ukrainian citizens who arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland without the care of persons who are actually taking care of them, and of minors of Ukrainian citizens who arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland and who before arrival were placed in foster care in the territory of Ukraine. The regulation concerns minors of Ukrainian citizens who came to the territory of the Republic of Poland from the territory of Ukraine in connection with war activities carried out in the territory of Ukraine. It was necessary to develop solutions for recording these children, as well as monitoring their stay in Poland. This draft law is an attempt by the legislator to respond to the problems arising as a result of this situation in the area of the large influx of minors of Ukrainian citizens deprived of care of persons who were effectively caring for them and minors of Ukrainian citizens who arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland and were placed in foster care before arrival in the territory of Ukraine. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 22 March 2022. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and discussed this draft law and unanimously recommended that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u180	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargocka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country, print No 2100. High Izbo! On 24 February, there was an unprecedented attack on Ukraine by Putin's Russia. As a result of these events more than 2 million Ukrainian citizens have already arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland. These are mainly older people, women with children. They seek security, seek refuge, seek hope for a quick return to their country. But here and now it is your duty to organise a refugee care system. The mother law, for which we are making changes today in view of the next need arising from the operation of this law, has been passed in the High House over political divisions. It has been four days since this bill was passed to the Sejm to be signed by the President. This is a huge proof that we all understand how serious our homeland is, how difficult we have a problem to solve and how much we need to cooperate with all: government, government, NGOs, every citizen, to take action in the area of the organisation of refugees' stay in Poland, which are assigned to each of these groups. Thus, in the bill that we were investigating in the High Chamber 8, 9 and 12 March, we created grounds for giving a specific legal basis to legalize refugees from Ukraine in the Republic of Poland. We have created a Fund for Assistance to finance and finance many tasks for Ukraine's assistance. We have adopted special arrangements which concern the assignment of work in the Republic of Poland, special rules for extending legal residence for those citizens who were in the Republic of Poland at the time of the outbreak of the war, as well as certain powers for students, academic teachers and academics. We have also adopted specific guidelines for education, education, care, also for pupils and additional educational tasks, as well as specific rules for the organisation of the university and the provision of places for students. We have created the conditions for conducting, starting a business. This is a huge area of change. And these changes introduced by the mother law at the moment verify experience, life, the need that arises from the specific situations that take place. This draft amendment, which we have before us, has already characterised the rapporteur of the committee in such a very general way. I only have a few sentences to support this solution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about refugees from Ukraine, minors refugees who have been in all kinds of foster care in their countries, and there have also been cases where the borders have crossed young children without guardian, parent or adult guardian. All these situations must be subject to special regulation and special responsibility of the State for the safety of these children in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Minister and the Ministry are in constant contact with the consulate, with representatives of the Government of Ukraine. We know that the evacuation of children from orphanages, from children's homes took place by NGOs from Poland, from the European Union, from Ukraine. There is a great need for the Polish government to undertake the task of verifying all minors who have arrived on the territory of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are very important changes, changes that will protect these children, safety and a happy return to their homeland after the end of the war. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u182	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all well aware that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has faced many challenges that we have never faced before. And it is also obvious that we have a lot of issues to sort out. We only regret that these problems were not identified, even hypothetically, after the first signals received by the government more than 100 days ago. At that time, the consequences of this humanitarian crisis had to be examined. [[100 days ago?]] But we're working on what we're doing right now. The draft law deals primarily with the registration of children entering the Republic of Poland without protection from the territory of Ukraine and those for which it is necessary to establish immediately the temporary guardian of the person who carried out the foster care in Ukraine in order to ensure the safety of those children. We agree with the main thesis. The point is that our country is to provide temporary care for such children - for the time of armed conflict - not to include them fully in our system, which is radically different from the Ukrainian system. There are more institutional forms of care in Ukraine than in Poland. This project is urgently needed, we have no doubt about it, but the detailed solutions it introduces naturally raises doubts. First of all, in the justification for the bill, there is a clear indication that we are not able to assess the scale of the problem. We are not able to estimate the scale, that is, it is difficult to assess whether institutions such as district help centers can manage the recording and management of support. The question arises as to what, according to the legislator, means supporting the supervision of the rights and responsibilities of temporary guardians by PCPR social assistance centres. The next point is perhaps a specific development of this concept, but here we are faced with some ambiguities. We have a rather vague term: organizational aid. Minister, what does that mean? We do not know the scale of the problem, it is not known whether the proposed solution is right to be in such a centre as Warsaw. If the scale of the problem is so large and the responsibilities are assigned to one main PCPR - in this case the WCPR - and not to the district, it can result in paralysis. In this case it does not seem logical to place this task in one place. This will simply be far from where we are living, to whom we are directing specific support. Another very important question: Will this be a task commissioned for local governments? If not, local government units will have to use their own resources to do so. It is also unclear to ask for benefits on behalf of the temporary guardian who had previously held foster care for minors, to accept these benefits for the account of the district bank and to pay them later, for example. in kind or in the form of a service fee. It's undefined what that means. The service fee is obvious to us, Minister, but what's with the physical form? It can be concluded that PCPR should shop for temporary carers. This takes the form of some impersonalization of these persons. For the PCPR, this is an additional task which probably requires additional funding. Yet independent carers can carry out these tasks on their own. The local authorities point out that the adoption of the proposed bill will create the need for new tasks. It is primarily about establishing cooperation with non-governmental organisations providing legal assistance to Ukrainian citizens. Question: "Are these competitions supposed to be competitions?" If so, it's going on. It also seems necessary to hire temporary carers in the organisational field. There are no established support standards. They will have to be worked out. It's gonna go on, too. The units will be looking for people to help. Now it's hard to tell how big it is because we don't know the scale of the phenomenon. The adoption by us of the proposed law will probably create the need to hire a psychologist who knows the Ukrainian language, as well as to ensure the availability of an interpreter if there is a need to use his services for the correct achievement of his objectives and tasks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everything I am talking about leads to the following conclusion: consultation with NGOs and local authorities must not be overlooked. You did not carry out such consultations in this case. Now in a hurry, you're trying to catch up. We understand that these solutions need to be introduced. As soon as possible, but this is really an extremely sensitive area of the functioning of the state. Practitioners, i.e. self-government workers and activists who have been dealing with these problems for years, know best how to meet the challenges they face. Experts, practitioners are ready, Minister, to talk and consult even in an accelerated manner. Let me just say one more little thing. That sounded like yesterday at the first reading of the project on the committee. There was the voice of the social side, talking about the great risk of pedophilia and child trafficking, and therefore the need to join the application for a guardian candidate certificate from the National Criminal Register. Attention was also drawn to the lack of a proper procedure when it comes to care for children who do not speak and have no documents, so there is no way to identify them. I hope that today you will address the problems identified to us yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u184	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat to present the position of the Left Messenger Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow will be an even month since the Russian Federation invaded Ukraine. Since then more than 2 million refugees have arrived in Poland. Most of them are women and children. The Poles helped the refugees from the war in an impressive way. The initiative, good will and empathy that ordinary people and volunteers constantly show up every day, who pass gifts to the needy, take refugees under their roof, offer shelter in private guesthouses, take care of refugees at stations and temporary stays, take their breath away. Unfortunately, there are problems that NGOs and the hearts of ordinary citizens cannot cope with. Among these 2 million refugees are also the most vulnerable victims of war, namely orphans from evacuated children's homes and children crossing the unattended border. Last week, the number of people evacuated in Poland from children's homes was estimated at about 3,000. It is to be expected that, every day of war, bombing and fire, which we know are often targeted at the civilian population, schools, kindergartens and hospitals, this number will increase. Giving shelter to the most vulnerable of war victims, offering them support and proper care is our moral duty. That is why this law is such an important and urgent solution. We have to help these children, and we have to do it the best we can. Please note that evacuations are not subject to the entire institutions. Along with children, only a small group of carers usually arrives in Poland. We have already had examples when one or two nannies were getting off the train in Warsaw, even with dozens of children under the age of 3. One of the biggest challenges is therefore not only finding a roof over their heads for these children, but also providing them with adequate care immediately. Unfortunately, the proposed amendment does not provide for the placing of children under the age of 3 in foster homes, under the care of foster families, which would be the best option for their development and adequate care. Of course, we can discuss the issue of not separating those groups that came to Poland from Ukraine, and this is an argument, but we are concerned that the amendment provides for a surprisingly low standard: one guardian per 15 children regardless of the age of children and whether there are infants in a given group. There is no way that one person can properly take care of little children in such a large group. Such children require constant care, feeding, scrolling, hugging to sleep. By helping the Ukrainian children's homes who have found shelter from the war, we should try to ensure that Poland, who is the author of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, is also a good example now, taking care of the care and empathy of children who are committed to our help today. Of course, providing a high standard of care for cared children is a challenge. Unfortunately, the Polish foster care system leaves much to be desired and requires a thorough reform for a long time. It is a pity that the reform that the Ministry has already been working on during this term of office has still not been carried out. It would be much easier for us today if we could start implementing it almost two years ago when, thanks to the enormous efforts of social organisations and experts, a deinstitutionalisation strategy was created. How much there has been and needs to be reform, we see now, struggling with the refugee crisis. Many NGOs and many experts have been involved in this strategy, whose knowledge and experience can be an invaluable help in creating the right solutions. I urge you to listen to their comments before the next amendment. You have phones for them, you have contacts. Their experience will certainly prevent us from making mistakes that could affect the situation of both Polish and Ukrainian children. The bill is only the first step. It will be important how its tasks will be carried out, whether local governments and NGOs will receive support in the form they need, whether they will encounter formal problems along the way, whether adequate resources will be allocated to helping the youngest refugees, as has already been mentioned here many times, as well as at the committee meeting yesterday, and whether we will finally make effective use of financial support from international institutions. The Left, of course, will support this law today, but urges the government to follow it through with appropriate regulations and to ensure the quality of the proposed solutions in particular when creating them. I also call on the government to help orphans from Ukraine, not to be afraid to ask the European Union, the UN and UNICEF for help, not to be afraid to involve these institutions in helping not only financially but also institutionally, factually, to help people, procedures and solutions tried in other areas of conflict around the world. Those kids are here, and we need to help them do the best we can. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u187	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government bill amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country, print No 2101. For a month behind our eastern border there has been a war in Ukraine, a cruel war in which Putin Russia is an aggressor. The barrels of rifles, tanks, bombs are directed against even the weakest ones. Not only soldiers die, but also old men, women, children. Hospitals are bombed, orphanages are bombed. Each day, several children die from the aggressor's bullets, and many of them suffer injuries. Today, it is impossible to tell how long the wounds that occurred in the youngest's psyche will heal. More than 100 children have died since the beginning of this war. Many of them, along with their guardians, seek refuge in our country. Poles have helped refugees since the beginning of this war with great empathy and selflessness. Since the first day of the war, the aid of local governments, volunteers, NGOs, farmers, volunteers of firefighters, entrepreneurs, all involved Poles and Poles is invaluable. And for it with all my heart, dear fellow countrymen, thank you for your commitment and heart given to the citizens of Ukraine in this dramatic time for them. The bill we adopted at the previous sitting solved a lot of problems. It has enabled state aid to be mobilised in this area, but we need to be prepared for ongoing amendments, changes that will enable us to help refugees more effectively. In this amendment, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy proposes provisions enabling the electronic system to keep records of Ukrainian children who entered Poland without care or were transferred e.g. from the Ukrainian children's homes. Lawyers have been alerting for some time that the situation in Ukraine has activated human traffickers and the adoption underground. On social networks there are more and more questions about the possibility of adopting Ukrainian children who came to Poland without parents. The answer to the threat is a special act. It introduces a new institution for temporary care, but also provisions for foster care. The aim of the project is to create a specific legal regulation providing the legal basis for keeping in the electronic system records of minors of Ukrainian citizens who entered the territory of Poland without the care of persons who actually took care of them, or of minors who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland and were placed in foster care in the territory of Ukraine immediately prior to arrival. The project assumes that the Polish government will collect information about their movements in Poland and monitor the manner and quality of care provided to them. This knowledge is essential to ensure the safety of these children and to enable them to provide effective assistance. The creation of records will also allow Poland to provide the Ukrainian website with information regarding the number of children who crossed the Polish border and the location of their stay in Poland. After the end of the armed conflict in Ukraine, these data may also be necessary for the Ukrainian party. According to this project, children's records will be kept by the Minister of Family and Social Policy and the District Family Assistance Centres. The District Family Assistance Centres will be required to support social assistance centres, social services centres or other organisational units in the exercise of their supervision of the exercise of the rights and obligations of temporary carers and minors of Ukraine under their care. In addition, the district family care centers will provide legal, organisational and psychological assistance to temporary care providers... Just a moment, Mr. Marshal, if I may. ...and the Ukrainian children under their care. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party will vote in favour of these solutions, which are very needed today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u188	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Hanna Gill-Friday, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From this point of view, first of all, I would like to thank the volunteers of Poland 2050 and other NGOs who took care of the very rapid evacuation of children from children's homes in Ukraine during the first days of the armed conflict. These are hundreds of hours of work in difficult conditions, and for all this from this place, thank you very much. I also wanted to thank local governments and voivodships for the fact that when these children had already come to Poland, they had shelter and care here instantly, and we know that it was not easy, because they were sometimes groups of even a few hundred people. This bill we're working on today is needed for now. This is especially about the system of records, because it will help all organisations and local authorities, all actors, so that these children can safely cross the border and that we can provide them safely. On the other hand, it's about all these kids being counted so that they're in the system to be checked out. Therefore, thank you very much, Minister, for the fact that these regulations were sent to the Sejm so quickly. On the part of Poland 2050 I declare - although we have, of course, prepared amendments to this law, which we will not make now, including reading, but we will wait with them for a bigger amendment - that we will continue to work on this part of the law. It goes on for example. to improve the conditions for NGOs, because we believe that they should receive this money in non-competition mode rather than competition mode. Finally, I'm going to talk about the scale of the challenge. According to our estimates, which are consistent with the estimates of the Ministry, the children who remain in custody in Ukraine are 200,000, ladies and gentlemen. 200,000. this is three times the number of children remaining in all kinds of care, in institutional care, in the family care that we have in Poland. So this is the huge scale of the challenge. That is why international aid, which the Ministry is currently seeking, is so important, as we have learned from the information received at the committee meeting yesterday. The bill is imperfect, but we will support it in this form and work on it later. As I understand it, it is about time and priority to introduce these solutions. The last word, on the other hand... Mr. Marshal, I know I'm running out of time, but the last word I wanted to say was to foster families. You report to us as Members. We know that your families, your homes are open to children from Ukraine, but the information I received from the Minister shows that this care will be separated for the moment. It is not possible for Ukrainian children to go directly to Polish foster families at the moment. Of course, this is a difficult decision to understand, because at the moment institutional care in Poland is kind of overcrowded and foster families could be a relief for it. However, I would like to ask all those who work in foster families to provide, for example, another form of help, if such children from Ukraine are somewhere in your district, within your reach. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u190	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. We're going to ask questions. Now is the moment when if any of your fellow Members would like to join the list of people asking questions, please. If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project provides for the creation of a register of minors of Ukrainian citizens who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland without the care of persons who took effective care of them, and of minors of Ukrainian citizens who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland and were placed in foster care in Ukraine immediately before arrival. I have this question to the Minister: Will the local authorities which would carry out the tasks related to its implementation under this law receive a subsidy and funds to carry out all these tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u192	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the government has started reading social media, where, for the past three weeks, this problem has become perhaps one of the most tragic images of the war caused by Russia that have reached our citizens. We have downloaded complete children's homes to Poland with all children, and often also with carers. We have Polish families looking for parents who worked in Poland, and their children came to our country after the death of their family in Ukraine. I would like to ask, because until now, the government has not given as much information as is the scale of this problem. How many Ukrainian children will receive support and assistance? And finally, I wanted to ask if it would be a commission or a self-government task. Will local governments receive the necessary support from the government to help the children of Ukraine? I'll ask you kindly to answer me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowick, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law is necessary, but what concerns this law is a very low standard of childcare, because for fifteen children, each at a different age, in a different situation, one guardian or babysitter is really very, very little and I fear that the quality of this care will be insufficient. But I am even more concerned about the employment situation of the next person after having exceeded 15 people. If there are 16 people, it is possible to hire another person: a carer or a babysitter. Here it is written in the bill that this person can be employed for at least 8 hours 5 days a week. I'm asking who's gonna be doing this extra care on weekends, except for those 8 or, I don't know, 10 hours. After all, these children require (the bell) care 24 hours. Do you not see here the need and opportunities to extend this care provided by this additional care provider just for the weekend? Because I don't know who's gonna take care of these kids on weekends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Act regulates a very important area concerning foster care for children coming from Ukraine. The government, when preparing this bill, of course knows very well that only cooperation with the district government, the non-governmental sector, can effectively implement its provisions. I wanted to ask you about the adoption process of children who started in Ukraine. If these children moved with their carers to Poland, according to what rules will they continue? According to the principles of the Ukrainian State, or according to Polish law? And the other thing. You write that at the moment it is difficult to estimate the financial impact of the tasks carried out by the district family support centers. It is known that it will be (the bell) tasks of government administration commissioned to local government, so sooner or later these funds will go there. I wanted to ask if there were any estimates of these costs and when it could be expected that these funds would go to local governments running district family care centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u198	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first week after the war in Ukraine, I wanted to report the Ukrainian family to the city records, but I didn't. Why? Because I didn't have anywhere, because there were no regulations, because it was after the weekend, and I was already telling you how our government was acting at that point - it just wasn't there - because there were no guidelines. Daily check-in with the voivode was total chaos. Different recommendations every day, which were completely contradictory. Now I wanted to ask something else, because I also heard a story about a woman who crossed the border with seven children and only at the border said that only three of them are physically her children, but when it comes to the four other children, the old lady next door, who took care of them, begged her to save them because there was a war, and she's already old and she can't cross the border, so she (the bell) took four children without even knowing their date of birth, because there was no time for that. I wanted to ask you if we know how many children we actually have in our country. No. What action will the government take in the case of children lost at the border? Because it's happened, we've heard about it. The records of the foster care will not show children who have been carried out across the border by completely random persons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u200	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u201	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Every day we accept new refugees from Ukraine's war. Some of them are foster children. These are very large groups, even dozens of people. Local authorities started helping, making their buildings available, which can be a shelter for minors on an ad hoc basis. I'm getting signals that the heating bills for these places are going to be very big, horrendously high for local units. According to local authorities, a very large proportion of the facilities made available are heated with fuel oil - fuel, which for incomprehensible reasons did not appear on the list of products subject to reduced VAT in the anti-inflationary shield 2.0. The cost of heating such buildings has doubled. In addition, the Act on Special Solutions for the Protection of the Consumers of Gas Fuels in view of the situation on the gas market does not take into account local budgetary units operating in sport (Ringtone). The bill was supposed to secure tariffs for schools, kindergartens or cultural institutions. Sports halls have been forgotten. They are often used as a temporary shelter for large groups. And there's no way to keep these rooms warm right now. I would like to ask you through the Minister with a question to the Government: What steps will be taken to regulate this situation, difficult and costly for local governments and people who do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u202	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This is a very necessary project. The subject is extremely delicate, sensitive, but at the same time very difficult. I would like to ask: According to your data, how many children have arrived today from Ukraine to Poland and how many are children who do not have legal care today? I believe that, as far as this further care is concerned, specialised individuals, foundations must be used for this purpose, but also local self-government units must be used and financial resources must be secured. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice. If he is not, then Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, our goal is not to reform the foster care system in Ukraine, but I have three questions about the draft law. First of all, isn't it worth collecting information? What about children's health too? I am not only talking about physical disability issues, but also about what specific support they need, e.g. if they have autism or schizophrenia or other forms of disorder and they will simply need specialized support. Will such information not be needed to provide such support in Poland? The second point is the question of cooperation with the countries of the European Union regarding the departure of children in groups organised in other countries, because we know that the number of children who will be in Poland will be very large. What countries do we have such a conversation with? What are the odds? And does the Ukrainian party agree that children can also be accepted and taken care of in other countries? And point three. I think that children who have several months (the bell), do not care about being in a group, it is not a priority for them to be in a group of 50 other Ukrainian children, but it is important to be tucked in, it is important to be taken care of by the family. But wouldn't it be worth giving these smallest children the opportunity to get to foster families and be taken care of for a while - a short one, I hope? That's what's important to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u206	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Registration of children crossing the Polish border is necessary. I was just sending a bus to Italy today, where there were 40 children on 10 mothers. Nobody knew what kind of kids they were, what they were called. When I made the list, it was the hardest thing to do. It's about drawing up a list, what are the names of children, how old they are to be sent with full awareness. In Poland even the car has its metric and you can find out who owned it, whether it had a crash or not. Is it not the first thing that every child crossing the border should be saved and that it should be known where this child is going? Because different countries give different conditions for children's stay. If the mother e.g. it will be provided for 3 months, and after 3 months will be in financial difficulties, these children can be taken away from the mother. So we should first of all know where the child is going (the bell), what is the child, what are the guarantees that it will be safe in the country to which we send them. Therefore, this law, very good and necessary, is far insufficient to secure the existence and fate, actually the future of Ukrainian children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u208	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u209	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the current provisions on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that State do not introduce for the Minister responsible for family affairs tasks in coordinating and monitoring the place of residence and care, as regards children from Ukraine who remain unattended, nor do they authorise the establishment and keeping of a register with the personal data of these children. This bill changes that. Minister! I have a question: Will the creation of such a register and records allow the Ukrainian party to provide full information on the number of children who have crossed the border and the location of their stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which will be necessary for the Ukrainian authorities after the end of the armed conflict, when the decision is made that the children are to return to Ukraine? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And will the rules ensure the safety of children by monitoring the time, place, way of giving them care? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As we know, children's psychiatrists, youth psychiatrists, are missing in Poland. These people, these children who come from Ukraine, are already in an uncomfortable situation because they stayed in various centres that took care of them. There will also be children from families who may have lost, so psychiatric care will be very much needed. There is also adaptation to new conditions, adaptation to another country. We know that there were many situations in Poland when it didn't look perfect - children often suffered in foster homes or institutions that took care of them. So this is a very important psychological moment, also irritable, because we're talking about children from another country. The question is whether these children will be provided with psychiatric care in a special way (the bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens creates another, third register for Ukrainian citizens, this time remaining in foster care. We already have a register, which is kept by the chief chief of the Border Guard, we have a register of the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, and now there will be another register for children and young people in foster care, which will be kept by the Minister responsible for Family Affairs and Social Assistance. And now the question is: Will there be multiple registers, e.g. for people with disabilities or older people who will have to hit e.g. to social services houses? Think about it, because it seems like we're starting to have an excess. That's the first point. The second point is: Will you have a register of people who are temporary care? 'Cause somehow you need to know... Is this the ledger? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. And now the question about the target model of action of the PCPR (The Bell) against Ukrainians and Ukrainian families. Is this just to limit itself to hiring people who are supposed to take temporary care above this limit 15 - again the question of why such a limit - or are we going wider? Last, excuse me, marshal, the question is about the scope of the organizational aid. Let's say we have a group of young people and she needs calls to communicate. The temporary caretaker needs to communicate with them. Is it in the means or is it not in the means? I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, in the opinion of many international institutions, Poland is an example, an example to follow in dealing with the problem, one can say, a huge problem, migratory, refugee. 2 million women and children were admitted under the roof of Polish houses, Polish institutions. Poland has dealt with this problem. [[We haven't gotten through it yet. We're just getting started.]] Unfortunately, unlike Western Europe, which over five years could not cope with the problem of 2 million grown men who did not escape the war, but sought an easy and comfortable life. It is mainly thanks to Poles and their unlimited help, it is due to non-governmental institutions, it is due to local governments (Dzwonek), but it is also a huge thanks of the Polish government and state institutions. Therefore, it is unworthy to use this tragedy of refugees to fight politically by the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u216	Thank you. Ms Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u217	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There are already 81 babysitting children in care facilities in Łódź, including 22 children with intellectual disabilities. Lodz volunteers often work until 3 a.m. Together with the Łódź magistrate, they renovated the facility at ul. Marysińska, who is ready for another 80 children. Unfortunately, there's still no decision, Minister. Children coming to Poland need support and care in many areas. Medical examinations have shown that Ukrainian children have come to us with many problems. The law only states that the Treasury will finance care. Unfortunately, it is only a general and to this day, although 10 days have passed since the entry into force of the Act, there is still nothing known. And my questions are simple and I'll ask you to answer them in writing. Financing is not settled. When, how much, who and how? Institutions also need funds for additional costs, they need to hire, among others. Ukrainian educators, translators, Ukrainian psychologists. Minister, what amount will be paid to support the children? Are these gonna be assignments? Who's gonna be the payer? Will the costs incurred by local authorities be reimbursed? Who's gonna do the math and when? And an additional question, Mr. Marshal, very important: Can Ukrainian families be foster families for Ukrainian children for foster care? If so, how much will this funding be provided and by whom? What number of foster care children are planned to take care of in Poland, and what number of foster care children is already covered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u218	Thank you very much. This is indeed an important issue, interesting to settle. And the question will now be asked by Karolina Pavliczak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some specific questions and I would like to ask you for specific written answers as well. Should a translator be present during the interim care proceedings? Should the documents be translated, and should only the probation officer represent the minor child? Those are the first questions. There is no reference to the Code of Civil Procedure, so we do not know how this would be possible. I'll ask for an answer, too. And the subject of the draw of the judges. In this case, it should be excluded. It would greatly speed up the handling of all these cases if one judge were seconded to a specific case. The problem is also the duration of care, because there is no procedure for ending it. What if a temporary guardian is established, e.g. Grandma's gonna be here in a few months. Mom's gonna be here? Is this decision losing its power of office? Is there a need for a special request for repeal? Is there another form you're assuming? Last case - the question of the court's consent to the application for PESEL. After all, security... At least this is the way some authorities accept it, make it possible to give PESEL the possibility of establishing formal care, and then there is a risk that the child will not be able to register within 60 days. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u220	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If we are talking about war, perhaps the most tragic picture of war is the image of the child, the injured child, the child who died of the wounds suffered during the war, and the child who comes to a foreign country without his parents and guardians, the child who travels alone on the train to unknown directions. We know that over 100 children have been killed in Ukraine so far, several hundred are badly injured. The mothers of these children, who are left in cities and the cities are systematically destroyed three feet after the subway, write their children out on the hands of blood groups to help them in the event of a tragedy. I wanted to ask what is the scale of the arrival of children without carers, parents or legal guardians from Ukraine. I am referring to the experience of the State and the reception point in Stalowa Wola (Dzwonek), which the Minister creates and is responsible for its operation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u222	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u223	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We've been watching the war for almost 30 days outside our eastern border. More than 2 million people have crossed the border in search of refuge. They meet with the wonderful help of hundreds of thousands of volunteers, volunteers from Poland, whom once again from this place very, very much thank you. Polish people and Poles pass a test of solidarity, but we are still waiting for government support. It's missing, for example. system aid, no idea of housing. This was also discussed today at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, at which we heard how the Supreme Audit Chamber crushed the Living and Living Programme. But there is also a lack of basic issues, such as respect for human rights at both the Ukrainian and Belarusian borders. So start acting on the system, but what you can do (The Bell) here and now... Start acting, stop breaking human rights, stop pushing people out there, and respect people on the Ukrainian border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u224	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u225	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a specific question about one of the provisions of the bill. I mean the record that the district family care centre provides legal, organisational and psychological assistance to temporary guardians and minors under their care. I have a question: Why isn't there a place here? Also for care, rehabilitation? I also have a question about the standard of this aid: do you plan to include specific standards for such aid in the regulation, perhaps in the next amendment? I think it would be very important to know what specific dimension and what quality help these children's homes can hope for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u226	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej the Nobleman, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u227	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In view of the extraordinary situation in Ukraine, linked to the brutal aggression of Putin's regime against the country, the Sejm adopted as a matter of urgency a law providing the legal basis for keeping in the electronic system records of minors of Ukrainian citizens who came to Poland without the care of the persons who were actually taking care of them. The amendments proposed in this draft law imply the obligation for district family assistance centres to support social assistance centres, social services centres and other organisational units in the exercise of their supervision of the rights and obligations of the temporary guardian. I therefore ask the Minister: What is the scale of this phenomenon? How many such children have so far arrived in Poland (The Bell), and what are the anticipated consequences of the regulation of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u228	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Napieralski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is this: Have you considered this system of helping children? Because children are actually the most important, and they are the most affected by war. As a father of two children, I know exactly what can happen in children's heads, how they are under constant pressure, and especially when bombing or shooting takes place. We know exactly that in Poland there is a problem when it comes to psychologists and child psychiatrists. This system today cannot actually help children from Ukraine. Did you ever think about... After all, there are a lot of women coming to our house, there must be psychologists among them, there must be psychiatrists. Wouldn't it be possible to make such a system to actually integrate it into the whole health system, of course also to train it in language - it's Polish - if they wanted to? They could help children from Ukraine (the bell), and later they could also help Poles and Poles who need such help, because this war also affects our children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question about babysitting, although it's a little bit, I have this feeling, next to the mainstream we're talking about. This is due to the experience of the functioning of my parliamentary office, where the family came, which had to make an act of entrusting care in the form of a notarial act in connection with the return of the mother to Ukraine. I have a question. Has the government tried to talk in any way, tried to dialogue with the notarial government, so that in such difficult situations, which are in no way blame, in which such dramatic decisions and choices are made, it could be, for example. exempt from the notary fee? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were there any conclusions on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u232	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, the Coalition of Poland, closes the list of people enrolled in the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u233	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Many refugees from Ukraine face a problem in creating an account. Firstly, it is about creating a PESEL number, secondly, in order to benefit from state aid, there must be a bank account in Poland. Unfortunately, banks only honor a Ukrainian foreign passport or Ukrainian ID card, but the plastic one, issued after 2016. Previously, the Ukrainians had evidence of the evidence we once had - the book evidence. Today banks refuse to set up an account, so Ukrainians can't even use this help. Is it possible to speed up this work so that every document is allowed to set up an account? We are dealing with an extraordinary situation and we need to change it, we need to speed this up so that mostly mothers and children can start a bank account and benefit from help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u234	Thank you very much. That's where we've exhausted the list of people who've signed up for the vote. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha, will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try briefly to address the numerous questions that have been raised here from the room. But before I begin, I wanted first of all to thank all the parties for understanding, for being mature and responsible. I would also like to thank the local government, especially Mr Mark Wójcik from the Association of Polish Cities. After yesterday's committee on today's meeting, we had long discussions on the details of the provisions of this project, and we agreed that in several places it needed clarification, it needed to be amended. On the other hand, aware of the consequences of discussing the amendments today, we agreed that any amendments to this project would be discussed at the nearest opportunity, the next, i.e. at the next session of the Sejm, we would report such an amendment, a broader amendment. I hope that many of these doubts, the inaccuracies that you have also reported today, will also be clarified in these provisions, because many of them are perfectly justified. I therefore thank all of you once again for being aware that today's amendments would lead to a delay in the process of this project. As far as the foster care system is concerned, this is the subject of this project. These regulations that we are introducing today serve a narrow group. If we are looking at a whole group of refugees from Ukraine who have already gone to Poland, we are now dealing with this group of children who were in foster care immediately before they arrived in Poland, and children who went to Poland completely unattended, without real care. This is a special group. This is also a special group for the Ukrainian side. We work very closely with the Ukrainian side, with the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, which communicates to us very clearly its wishes, our request that we take the best possible care of children who come to Poland from Ukrainian foster care institutions. It is the Ukrainian party's wish that the groups that come to us, in the same composition as possible, should return to Ukraine when possible. It is not absolutely our goal to reform the Ukrainian foster care system in Poland, and therefore we are not going in this direction to direct children to Polish foster care, to Polish institutions or to Polish foster families. Of course, we do not rule out such individual situations, because, as you know perfectly well, life today writes very surprising scenarios. Of course, the provisions of our law on family support and foster care apply as much as possible, while special tools are provided by the special act and they are moving towards what the Ukrainian party wishes. The Ukrainian party very much appreciates the institution of the temporary guardian introduced by us, because it is a guarantee for them that children will not be divided into different subgroups or will not be sent individually to different institutions or families in Poland, but they will be able to stay in those groups in which they come to us. Of course, I agree with this concern that one person in fifteen children is a low standard. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to our foster care system in Poland - yes, this is the Ukrainian standard, and we are, of course, giving the opportunity to employ more carers and, among other things, the possibility of hiring more carers. That's what this bill is for, and this procession is for. There was a question about funding, about resources. Of course, local governments will receive funds to carry out these tasks. Here again I agree that the concept of care or organizational, psychological or other support is underprecise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what we're gonna be doing, I believe, together, working together. The health status of children, the degree of disability are very important issues. In the register of minors, including the register we are working on, they are needed for these children to reach the places that are adapted to their needs. It's a question of multiplying registers. This register in principle differs from data stored by the Border Guard or by the PESEL system, where there is no data on the family situation, who is the guardian of the child, from whom the institution comes and where he currently resides. We want the Ukrainian party to be able to receive precise information from us about where the groups are today and what is the fate of these children until they also relocate possible groups abroad. We know that it was our common wish for these children to find care in Poland, but we also know that many of the groups that come to us want to go to third countries, and the Ukrainian party agrees in these specific cases. The Registry will help us coordinate the flow of information in these matters, ensure that we do not do this manually, as is the case today, and that this information will go to the relevant services, including Ukrainian services, in due time, and we will be sure that we have informed the parties accordingly. The scale of the phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, we estimate that today this number was already falling, that about 3,000. children from foster care are already in Poland. Of course, how many will be final today is impossible to estimate, because it will, as we all know, depended mainly on how the situation in Ukraine will develop. We must also consider a very worrying scenario related to the fact that at a time when the problem will escalate and the Russian invasion will also escalate in the western part of Ukraine, that, as we know, this will happen in a situation where many orphanages from the eastern part are already being evacuated today, these children are in the entire Lviv region today. Apart from even the inhabitants of this region, there are thousands of children from orphanages who are temporarily staying and who do not want to leave the territory of Ukraine for now, but we realise that if the situation gets worse, it can happen and then this wave will definitely be big. Of course, we are here seeking international help. I think that my colleagues from many resorts are meeting with our counterparts from very different countries, from all over the European Union and not just to talk. how we provide today, we organize assistance, what we need most and what international support we expect. I am convinced that the declarations that we hear every day from our counterparts in different countries will be fulfilled and that such international support will appear. To conclude, thank you very much once again for understanding. We will work on this law and clarify any provisions in the forthcoming amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u236	Thank you very much, Minister. Will the rapporteur please take the floor?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, add to the thanks which the Minister had just said to all parliamentary clubs for the very consistent procedure of this proposal to amend the speciality. We are dealing with a really very narrow group in this project, but how damaged by fate, because the project concerns children who have already been in foster care in Ukraine, come to us and must be especially taken care of. I understand the concern and the fact that we want our children to benefit from our foster care system, but, as the Minister has already stressed here, we cannot accept such tasks and standards, which will be contrary to what the Ukrainian side expects of us, we must work in agreement. Our Ministry has this contact with the Ukrainian side and is conducting discussions in this area. Thank you very much to the clubs that have withdrawn their amendments because we need this novel as soon as possible. As the Minister said, we will return to the issue of a more recent law at the next meeting, and then all these amendments, the problems we discussed at the committee meeting yesterday, will probably be taken into account. I also want to thank you... Here many thanks were given to the people of our country, associations, NGOs, local governments. I would also like to remind you of the great role of our government and individual ministries, to highlight it. I'd like to remind you that at the time. 3.45 Russia invaded Ukraine and at 3 p.m. 6 voivodships had already assigned their tasks according to previous preparations. It's about an hour. The first reception points started, the reaction was actually immediate. And, ladies and gentlemen, understand the scale: over 2.1 million refugees within three weeks. I'm gonna leave it here anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u238	Thank you very much. [[They're Polish and Poles.]] [[We're all Poles and we're all working, really.]] The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on specific regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine (prints No 2093 and 2094). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on specific regulations in the field of transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, print No 2094. The project concerns the authorisation of extending the working time of train crews carrying persons injured as a result of armed conflict in Ukraine from the territory of Ukraine to the Republic of Poland due to the non-emerging timetable of the extended time of border checks and the introduction of solutions allowing for the lack of train drivers with knowledge of the routes in respect of specific sections of the railway line to start without undue delay passenger trains intended for the carriage of persons moving from the territory of Ukraine to the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as the authorisation for the carriage of passenger trains by a driver with the right to operate freight trains only the same type of vehicle on which the driver is authorised to operate freight trains. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 21 March 2022, the above draft law was sent to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. The Commissions: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Infrastructure, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2022, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u240	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kacper Płażyński will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear Members, There is a conflict - Russia attacked Ukraine. As it is, we know. We also know how much Poles and the Polish government, together, very often now, at last, help the Ukrainians over political divisions, and this dimension of aid, as the draft law we are debating now shows, these forms of aid are wide. You can see how different sections of the law need to be changed to make everything work and be done according to the law. The project we're talking about now is, among other things. Trying to realize today's situation, the fact that Polish railwaymen, even if they go to the border, often do not know how many trains will be waiting at the border. We need to adapt the labour law rules to ensure that they and the carriers are not liable, and in such a way that they really have time to rest later. Thus, this is a number of provisions on labour issues, the issue of how work can be done safely. There are a number of regulations that deformise the process of assistance in the form of exchange, delivery or arrival of refugees to Poland via rail or road means. There are also very important incentives, financial incentives for donors, for Poles, for NGOs who want to support Ukraine there, on the spot, sending various kinds of gifts. Incentives that this Polish country will to a large extent cover the amounts that railway carriers wish to collect in exchange for the provision of their transport services. It will make help faster and easier to get there, to Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a matter of what Ukraine looks like today. In Ukraine, as you know, offices often simply do not work. Especially when it comes to the Black Sea coast, it's already a complete disaster. Apart from some centres such as Odessa, most of this coast is unfortunately at war today. Therefore, for example, groups such as sailors, among whom there are very large numbers of Ukrainians, cannot prolong ending certificates, so in theory they could suddenly run out of work, and this profession is often carried out by European shipowners, Polish shipowners, often under the Polish flag. So we want to extend these certificates automatically for 2 years, if the sailors are able to prove that they have performed their profession on a given type of unit. There are more such changes, such as the issue of driving rights, the extension of driving rights, the issue of cars. These are the issues, they would seem, on the scale that we are dealing with, not the most important ones, but they actually apply to everyone who arrives, and they seriously make life easier. Therefore, we strongly recommend the adoption of this bill, the adoption of the law that serves to make the aid reach faster, more efficient, better and for Ukrainians in Poland or traveling to the West to be easier to travel. At the same time, Marshal, I make seven amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Five amendments concern completely technical issues that were discussed at the last joint meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee and the Infrastructure Committee. These are legislative issues, so I will not give you these content. But two substantive amendments, one of which concerns the issue of carriers with which the Polish side is cooperating on the Ukrainian side, i.e. Ukrainian carriers, who very often because of this dynamic, very difficult situation can operate or not. Therefore, we want to deformalise the process of cooperation with these carriers so that carriers who no longer have the opportunity to operate in Ukraine can enter their place so that certain dynamics are not distorted and that this process is as continuous as possible, especially as regards the issue of refugees leaving Ukraine to the west of Poland. The second point concerns, dear country, the extension of the (Bingle) permission to stay in Poland. We will automatically extend the stay of Ukrainians who are in Poland until the end of 2022. They won't have to worry about that, ladies and gentlemen. It is a deformity of procedures and the removal of bureaucratic burdens from Ukrainians, who unfortunately have to flee from their homeland before the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, will now speak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u243	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! When Russia attacked Ukraine, an independent country, everything changed - the world is no longer the same. Every conflict is a victim. In this case, there are a lot of civilian casualties. And it is hardly surprising that Ukrainian society, our neighbours, our sisters and our brothers are seeking refuge in the hospitable Republic of Poland. Thousands, tens of thousands, and we already know that in total over 2 million refugees took refuge in Polish homes. They came to us by various means of transport. Fortunately, the railway stood at the height of the task and carried the largest crowd of Ukrainians. In view of this potential, the government has stood at the level of the task, prepared a good law that introduces solutions to increase the railway potential, both on the side of carriers - to extend the working time of train depots - and on the side of managers. This allows you to refund the investments that they make for you by improving the railroad routes. So that these solutions, which concern documents such as driving licences or certificates for seafarers, can meet with praise. One thing raises doubts. It is now the 28th day of the war which Russia is fighting with Ukraine, with the Ukrainian people, and still to the territory of the Russian Federation are reaching tira with supplies for the army of the aggressor. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, I asked for this: I was hoping that the Minister would come to the meeting today with the auto-corrections that will keep these tira on the Polish border. I have not heard that a representative of the back-up club for the government has submitted such an amendment, and therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am making amendments which, firstly, oblige the Council of Ministers not later than 7 days from the date of entry into force of this Act to request the competent authorities of the European Union to take action to introduce restrictions in the area of international road transport between the Member States of the European Union and the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. It's about time we stopped the trucks that supply the invaders' army. Secondly, we also know from the information provided at the meeting of the committee yesterday that Polish carriers also participate in this supply of Russia, and Polish carriers also carry out transport to Belarus and the Russian Federation. We want those who resign from this activity to be entitled to compensation. The aid fund has been set up and compensation can be paid from this fund to those carriers who will not carry out contracts (the bell) concluded before 24 February. The amendment in this respect is contained in the package of amendments I make. We also want compensation to be granted to those carriers who, in connection with the war activities, cannot enter Ukraine because it is dangerous there. I hope that these amendments will also be supported by the parliamentary majority and other opposition clubs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański will now speak, who will present the position of the Left Club. [[Excuse me, this is the original.]] And give that back? [[Yes.]] The original is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Members' Left Club, we have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft law on special regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. It is a bill that is necessary today, because we see a huge number of people from Ukraine entering Poland, but also how many people had gone to Ukraine before to fight. On 24 February, war broke out in Ukraine. Russian troops entered the territory of Ukraine and began de facto Gehenna of the population there. You can say that to this day until hours. 11 2180 thousand entered Poland's territory. persons. A large number of these people came here by rail. As a member of the Infrastructure Committee, I had the opportunity to be at the border crossing point. We were in Przemyśl, watching trains that entered Poland. These trains should take 500, 600 passengers, and 2,000 passengers would come. persons. And it was hard to be surprised that unfortunately these trains were delayed, that they were flying off the timetable. It is known that these trains had to be carried out, the Border Guard had to check these people out, so sometimes they would come with an hour, two hours delay, and that the working time of the drivers was simply prolonged. Therefore, this change is needed, which is to extend the working time of the drivers. We also know that these trains run outside of the timetable, so sometimes drivers are needed not to drive passenger trains on a daily basis. To transport these people you must use, in quotes, you must fill these trains with drivers who drive freight trains. Of course, they drive at slow speeds, but they're just able to operate these trains. The freight train, as we know, has a longer braking route, so this driver will just drive these passengers safer. On the other hand, the equally important thing that came here, and this is a plus to the government, is that the government thought not only of refugees, but also of companies and people who deal with these refugees. I'm talking about railway companies, about PKP, about all carriers who did both courses outside timetable courses, as well as courses with humanitarian aid. And you should be glad that these companies will have reduced or abolished access costs to railway lines. On the other hand, we also know that PKP PLK is a company of commercial law and should therefore be compensated for, because it maintains the entire rolling stock. I'm talking about all this service. So this is where the government stands, and it's really the right thing to do. Furthermore, the draft of this law, which we are talking about today, also addresses issues related to the acquisition by Ukrainian drivers, Ukrainian citizens carrying out road transport, of the possibility of extending the validity of drivers' certificates. This is extremely important because many of them have lost or lost these rights and today these people could not carry out transport. This is important, especially since we see what the transport and construction sectors look like today. After the departure of many drivers, the transport industry lost many employees and there is a problem with drivers. I think that the solution that is proposed will actually allow this industry to breathe a little bit, because today we have a problem with its cast at all. At the same time, the draft law to some extent talks about the possibility of helping sailors and fishermen who, say, should also have these certificates. Although I do not know what my predecessor meant - I am talking about you from Law and Justice - when he said that every ship with a Ukrainian crew would enter Poland, arrive at Polish ports and ask for an extension of the validity of this certificate. I think this is mainly about sailors who are in Polish ports and whose ships have come, sailed or reached Poland. On the other hand, what my colleague said, I could understand as a call for all ships with Ukrainian service to enter Poland, because sailors will get an extension of the validity of certificates for the profession. At the same time, the plus is what is in the arrangement of other specialization solutions. The Special Law provides that the departure of a Ukrainian citizen from the Polish border for a month will automatically result in him losing these rights. The law states that when it comes to fishermen and seafarers, these provisions will not apply. It is known that in many cases they just have sometimes two - three months' leave after the six-month (the bell) or the annual operation. I am sure that I agree with this - I am already finishing - as my previous speaker said, that solutions are needed that will block the trucks going to Belarus. I am sure that the Left Club will support this amendment because we believe that we should stop transport supporting Russia when it comes to the fight against Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u246	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Left Club. Mr Stefan Krajewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u247	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to the report of the committee on the government draft law on special regulations on transport and maritime economy in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine, prints No 2093 and 2094. The draft law introduces specific regulations concerning rail services carried out in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, documents used in transport and road traffic in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and the renewal of seafarers' qualifications diplomas issued by the administration of Ukraine by the administration of the Republic of Poland. After 24 February, the nature of these transports by railroads, by road transport, by seafarers changed completely. We know that today it is important to secure and transport the population, but also to supply with humanitarian aid, to provide food, to supply various products first-needed, to supply drugs. And it's really good that these changes are happening, because today we have to do everything to ensure that procedural blockades don't stop this help, this support. It's very good to see it coming. It needs to be assessed positively. There are many areas to be repaired, to be changed, but it is good that we are dealing with particular areas. This, of course, finds support in all the clubs in the Polish Parliament, because that is the need of the moment today, that we should change. Of course, we must do this in such a way that safety is important too. For example, these speed limitation limits are important. We also see that Polish railways and railways of individual local governments, such as the Mazowieckie and Dolnośląskie Railways, carried refugees from Ukraine. Everyone worked together to ensure that the process was done as well as possible. As Coalition Poland, we support these solutions. Of course, we will vote in favour of this law, but we will also vote in favour of the proposed amendments. Mr Grabarczyk presented this. In fact, as a citizen of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, I see these tir lines on Belarusian license plates, on Russian license plates, which are heading towards the border. That must be strictly limited. Of course, we need to think about our carriers. Where significant income is made from these connections and contracts concerning Russian or Belarusian areas, support for these companies must be absolutely prepared, and shields must be used, which have often been prepared for such carriers. This is important. Of course, it is important to bear in mind how many transports are carried out in and out of this area that I mentioned. It should be stopped today. We know that this is a difficult action, but for example, really good controls, which will last long at the border, will already do a lot of good along the way. Today, it can't be said that someone is gonna lose on his transport being pulled out of Russia. We know what this is for, what it is and how it is transported in many of these trucks. This has to be stopped. As I said, we will vote in favour of the bill, we will support the amendments previously tabled by the predecessors. May this joint action bring tangible benefits for both refugees from Ukraine and Polish companies that operate in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak will present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the very beginning, I would like to point out that I have the impression that once again something in the case of this law will be smuggled in, but I will explain it in a moment. The proposal for a law on special regulations on transport and maritime economy in relation to conflicts in the territory of Ukraine introduces several important and necessary changes. This is e.g. allowing the extension of working time and the increase of staff in trains carrying injured persons. It is also appropriate to allow passenger trains to be operated by drivers who have the standard rights only to operate freight trains. It's a shift. Simplifying this right in my opinion is acceptable and acceptable to save people's lives. Allowing the validation of the Ukrainian naval documents should also not bring us any special damage, or may help someone. This is an action in this case completely rational, completely necessary. The project also assumes that, following the implementation of the Act, financial assistance from the Assistance Fund will be provided to PKP Intercity, PKP PLK, Polregio or other carriers. In the impact assessment of the regulation, you describe that this funding is now burdened with a large margin of error, that e.g. The support due to PKP Intercity increases daily from 1700 thousand. PLN to 1300 thousand. zł. In theory, the law limits support only to this deficit, but PKP Intercity can be an exception here, because this deficit can also increase as a result of increased operational work. I have some doubt and I express it publicly: Is there not going to be an attempt to cover the losses that Intercity had in 2020? It was 193 million PLN. We know what caused these losses. Perhaps they were not the fault of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but rather the general government policy on how public journeys were handled, where the number of seats was reduced. This, of course, also increased operating costs and there is no force for the company to have these losses in this case. But does that mean that something needs to be added to this particular bill? There's a lot of doubt here. I am talking about this because you have already tried, even under the cloak of helping the Ukrainians, to add laws on impunity. I would therefore like to know: What is the ultimate purpose of this, and how will you really calculate these returns for companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In our opinion, it should work so that the company only gets the money after the service is done, only after calculating the real costs and an in-depth analysis, and I don't see it here. I'd like to know what it's gonna be like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoñ, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u251	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental draft law on special regulations in the field of transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. High Izbo! The project presented by the government contains a number of solutions concerning transport simplifications in relations between Poland and Ukraine and in matters of rights of Ukrainian citizens, in particular drivers and seafarers, in Poland in a situation of war, and in principle in a situation of brutal aggression of the fascist Russian regime against Ukraine. In general, these are positive changes, also introducing some flexibility and financial bases for the granting of aid. We therefore welcome this proposal from this side, and we believe that these changes are necessary today. However, even more important is what is not in this project, which talks about transport in the situation of the Russian crimes in Ukraine. There is not a single word here about blocking Russian and Belarusian transport, which de facto like lava moves around Poland. You can't accept that, Minister. Today, the government says that in terms of transport sanctions, nothing can be done because of the European Union, but for six years, Minister, the same government said it could do anything. We remember all the changes to the law that were certainly across the European rules. Back then, it didn't bother the government. Today, when we have to stop this criminal regime, when we can decide for ourselves who we are letting into Poland and who we are not letting in, we hear from the Government of Law and Justice that nothing can be done. It's obvious nonsense. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 makes amendments that will block this war contraband. After their adoption no Russian or Belarusian transport will enter the territory of the Republic of Poland. If anyone violates this ban, he will pay the salty penalty, and at his own expense he will be escorted to the border from which he came. This amendment also provides for the creation of system support for Polish transport companies. This is extremely important because some companies have already suffered, and some will still suffer. It is very important that our companies themselves do not bear the costs associated with these decent and desirable behaviours towards the Russian aggressor. That is why today I call on the government of the Republic of Poland to involve Polish transport companies in transport in companies of the State Treasury. This is one of the ways of help that can be activated, but of course another is needed. Besides, Minister, this should have been done long ago and Polish private transport companies should be more involved in these transports for Polish companies of the Treasury. I also call on the government to act courageously and to act in accordance with the interests of Poland. I ask all clubs and circles to support the proposal to introduce restrictions on the activities of Russian and Belarusian transport companies in Poland. I hereby submit to the Marshal an amendment which provides for these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? This is the moment. If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill concerns e.g. the permission of a train driver who is only authorised to operate freight trains of the same type of vehicle to which the train driver is authorised to operate freight trains. Minister! Given that such a solution is introduced in the draft law, I would ask for information on how many drivers with the power to operate passenger trains are missing at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members did not have much time to learn about this project. According to a hasty analysis, it is probably one of the few projects that does not smuggle other non-related content and is consistent internally, which is probably due also to the fact that the specialists from the silent changes in Poland did not get to it. I do not know whether the amounts proposed in this project are real and sufficient, hence my questions. Question one: Has the government consulted this issue and what carriers? And second question: How does the government intend to block Belarusian and Russian transport? Because that's probably the actual action against the Russian aggressor today. I would kindly ask the Minister to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u256	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u257	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the facilitations for rail transport due to the large number of refugees, but I would like to ask about the transport of wheeled goods and trucks at the Polish-Belarusian border. Only in the first two weeks of the war did 36,000 cross Russia. Tire. They are currently blocked from the bottom. But how is it possible that people of good faith, representatives of NGOs are more effective than the entire Polish state? Minister of Infrastructure Mr Adamczyk said that closing the border is not a simple matter and requires European Union intervention. So I have a question: Are you talking to the Union about this? Have you made any efforts? It's not like you're gonna do the same thing. Maybe it's time to give up destroying the rule of law in Poland and start a real, effective dialogue with Brussels. It's gonna be good for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there is no need to close borders in order to effectively reduce transport in cases where it is undesirable in Poland. Poland as a sovereign state can decide for itself who it lets into the territory of the Republic of Poland and who does not let in. All you have to do is not be afraid. Prime Minister, Minister, it is enough not to be afraid and apply these mechanisms which Poland as a sovereign state can apply, and then none: neither Belarusian nor Russian tir will enter Poland. You just need some courage. On the other hand, Minister, I have a question about the financing of tickets for Ukrainian citizens who are fleeing the war, for refugees. Originally, the deadline for completing these free journeys was set almost at the end of March. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be possible, on the basis of the rules that we will adopt, because they will probably be passed, and that is good, to continue this program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u260	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u261	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The last few weeks have shown how important rail transport is. There are a number of solutions in the Act that are a step in the right direction, but there are a lot of problems. Many problems are due to the fact that Polish collective transport has been consistently neglected for many years. All the time, you stubbornly prefer to finance the construction of highways, and you view the railroad as a second-class investment. Pandemic and the current crisis reveals your systemic negligence, among others. There are thousands of drivers missing. I have told you many times from this place how difficult the situation of rail workers is. Why do you ignore employees and employees of PKP, PKP Cargo and Polregio who have been protesting for months? Why not provide them with decent working conditions in such a situation? Why don't you propose an extra recruitment program? Why, instead, are you prolonging the working time of the train drivers and burdening them? Now we see that trains literally save lives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So start caring for people who can drive their jobs. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u262	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please answer the question: Does the government want to help Ukraine? Does the government want to stop supplies for the army of an aggressor from Russia? If so, please tell me whether the government will support the amendments that were tabled today during the second reading. They are supposed to limit the entry of Russian, Belarusian, but also Polish trucks with the help of the army invaders. And one more question. I'm asking for an exact number. How many trucks with Polish registration plates cross the border with Belarus or the Russian Federation within 24 hours? This is important information that Polish citizens should know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause they're asking to stop the truck with help for Russia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u264	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The project provides for an extension of the working time of train crews carrying persons injured as a result of an armed conflict in Ukraine. First of all, I wanted to ask you if this lengthening of working time wouldn't put you in danger. Secondly, is there also an extra remuneration solution for those who will work beyond this new, legally acceptable time limit due to the extension of the working time of the train? Thirdly, it is also said that passenger train crews can be supplemented by persons who have the power to operate freight trains. What's the difference in the training system? Isn't there some danger involved, in short, with the difference between running freight trains and running passenger trains? The final point concerns the exemption from the user charge (Bingle) from the railway infrastructure by carriers. I understand that this applies to all carriers, including Regional Transports and so-called. Special trains, e.g. launched from Krakow to the border of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u266	Thank you very much. I ask Małgorzata German from the Civic Coalition to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's about rail, circular, sea transport. As a result of the armed conflict, additional railway stations have recently been launched. I would like to know - and I would like to ask for information on this - how many additional warehouses our transport companies have launched and on which routes, which directions and how much they were burdened. What are the additional needs for subsequent warehouses at the moment, and what directions are involved? What is the potential of our carriers to increase these services? What costs have been incurred so far, and what other costs are expected? And the question with which they are addressing me, to the office, our citizens: Why is the government helping Russia and why is the government not helping Ukraine? Many people are reminded that transport by road, rail for Russian carriers (Dzinek) is closed in Poland. What are the trucks going with, trains to Russia? Citizens demand that they stop driving Polish roads and Polish railways. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u268	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating is based on, among other things, the law. extending the working time of train crews bringing in persons injured as a result of armed conflict. It is therefore envisaged to compensate for the difference between the break at work and the actual use thereof, so that weekly working time can be kept in accordance with the Labour Code. It is clear that this issue had to be clarified in view of the enormous delays that have not emerged from the timetable. However, I ask you to answer the question: Does the legislator also provide for financial compensation for the cast of these trains, which are not due to their faults being forced to bear the consequences due to the current situation on the railways? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u270	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have three questions. First of all, Ukrainian citizens can obtain a place to travel to any place in Poland with their passport. I have a question about how many Ukrainians were transported in this way and how much the PKP incurred in this regard. Secondly, the traffic on the railroad has been increased. We just had a system malfunction. I assume that this could be due to increased traffic, and in this context I would like to ask - potentially we need to predict that traffic will be increased - whether the system that we have today ensures the safety of passengers and how it looks. And the third question. There were, like, 100 questions here about the wheel transport. I assume that for some reason the government cannot stop the traffic in Belarus and Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you a question and I ask you to explain why we cannot react as a country and whether this is related to the decisions of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u272	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a special, special amendment, because the conditions are special. I'm gonna ask you not what's in this bill because it's all necessary, but what's not and what's needed. Well, many people talked about stopping these thousands of trucks, even to give them the opportunity to travel properly. I'm thinking about transporting a car carrying drugs. I've already got a signal that the drugs have expired because the transport was very slow. Many countries solve this by providing police escorts for cars, coaches transporting things to Ukraine and, above all, medicines. And the other thing. I've run out of care in this act. It is good that car drivers have been cared for, the drivers of the trains, but I lacked care for those who are going to Poland (the bell) - I am almost finished, Mr. Marshal - two or three days later, who are staying at reception points and who will then have a terrible journey - a nightmare journey - by coach. Not because of the terrible fact that we do not provide something, because Poles provide everything, packed lunch, good conditions on the coach, I think mainly about transport. On the other hand, this journey can be terrible, because it is to a distant place, to another country. Wouldn't it be possible to think about stopping the tira and giving a special escort, even a police escort, to these people so terribly tired that this trip to the destination of the relocation would take longer than many, many hours. I will ask for a written answer, like this problem, both the human problem and the drug problem, will be resolved in the future, because I understand that for now these are actions in some chaos and temporary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u274	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill is very much needed, and we all agree. It introduces a wide range of assistance to humanitarian aid organisers by exempting from the need to pay for access to railway infrastructure, for additional trains, apart from scheduled time, for additional wagons and even for the renovation of railway infrastructure. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that for this purpose, in general, 130 million PLN is foreseen for the entire period and the aid will be granted until this amount is exhausted. And my question is: How much help is enough? For what time? But to answer that, at least individually, when it comes to Members, I would at the same time ask the Minister to answer, as the Ministry estimates the monthly aid (the bell) on the basis of the situation that has taken place so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For almost a month now, Russian criminals have murdered children, murdered women, murdered defenseless people, bombed and destroyed their homes. From the very beginning Poles have shown great heart by providing support and help. Therefore, today, in the spirit of responsibility, we all have to stand together against the oppressor, on the one hand, in a merciless way imposing tough sanctions on the Polish side, on the free world side. This is absolutely absolute today, and there is no room for calculations, to wonder, to document ourselves. Today, these sanctions must make it harder for the Oligarchs and Putin themselves to feel. For this reason, we are proposing (the bell) an amendment concerning the retention of supply trucks, which is a support for Russia. It's about Ukraine. The sooner we have to accept this amendment, the sooner we have to block these deliveries, because people are dying, and today we absolutely have to end these actions together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u278	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the problem of refugee journeys in Poland is very important. In this respect, the PKP's great responsibility is on the side of PKP Intercity, companies of the PKP Group. My question, however, is: Does the Ministry cooperate with Regional Transport in this matter? It is very important that local authorities also become involved in this matter. Perhaps it would also be worth using the potential of local authorities in terms of rail transport to facilitate this movement within the country. And the other thing. It's about the sailors. The question is: Do we know whether the Minister has the knowledge, how many people are concerned with the issue of Navy certificates and renewals in Poland, and will these people who are already in Poland be able to take up work with Polish shipowners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u280	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish and Ukrainian railwaymen have met a huge task - the largest evacuation action since World War II. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens fleeing from the war thanks to Polish State Railways, Polish trains, have found peace and a moment of rest from the war. Glory be to them. I wanted to ask, Minister, about the incentive system for Polish carriers as part of the further evacuation action concerning refugees from Ukraine. The opposition asks, dear country, what the Polish government has done about blocking and halting economic exchange with Russia at the Polish-Belarusian border. I wanted to ask, dear opposition, what our man in Warsaw did, as Vladimir Putin called him, Mr. Donald Tusk in this case. After all, he has now gone to Brussels to get money from KPO, so he could probably close this border with no problem. And my question, Minister: What about the transport companies operating in the European Union, which belong to Russian oligarchs, Putin's back? Is it also possible to limit their activities within the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Bittel, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought there'd be more questions. I must have missed something. Firstly, I wanted to thank you for a very good, constructive discussion about this bill, which was particularly reflected in the club speeches. This good opinion was mostly individual, thank you for that. Some I consider as such a classic seymous activity, but in this situation I will not respond to these fights in any way. In trying to sum up this part of our debate, I would like to say that these provisions that we are implementing in an extraordinary manner - for which I thank the High House, the combined committees, thank you for this opportunity, for a derogation from deadlines - are very important and important. They were consulted as far as they could be done in the short time they were prepared. I mean, there was a question about what kind of carriers. Two meetings took place with all Polish passenger carriers and organizers of collective transport - marshals or representatives of marshals. The general shape of these provisions, which we have at the moment, has been developed in a concerted manner, in agreement. Of course, I would point out that we pay back costs, we do not create incentives, we just pay back the costs of operating rail transport because of this and in the explanatory memorandum... It is about the need to notify these provisions. War or not, DG COMP operates and controls our activities in this area. That's what I'm calling your attention to, too. It was a support segment. It's about lump sums, estimates. The question was how it would be settled. This process is described in the Act. A great deal of time has been spent on it being described in a way that is as precise as possible. As regards issues related to drivers and their work over time, a brief consultation was carried out with the social side. There is a friendly attitude towards these changes. Of course, we regard this as an exception, not as a principle of functioning at that time. It's an exception to the rule. If there are opportunities to construct the work of the traction teams in such a way as not to change the existing rules, then of course every carrier sees its functioning in such a way... The point is to do it this way. This should be strictly narrowed down. Finally, I would like to say a few words about what you believe is not in this law. I would like to say that we are, of course, taking all the incentives to act without pointing out what has happened here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many meetings and consultations on maritime, road and rail issues have taken place from the level of the Minister of Transport. I'm sure you've noticed one thing. The European Union Commissioner for Transport Adina Vălean and Ministers of Germany, France, the Czech Republic and Austria in Cracow, and later at the border - in Przemyśl, in the Kiev Hall near Korczowa. We showed it all. We talked about this. I'm sure you've heard, and if you don't, now you'll hear about a remote meeting with the ministers of the Baltic States and Finland. The result of this meeting is a joint request from four Member States to the Commissioner to deal with road and maritime transport in the context of sanctioning action at European Commission level. This must be decided by the Prime Ministers within the Council of the European Union. You know that very well. Besides, the amendment that has been tabled, which says that to appear within 7 days, will not block anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's just gonna make it possible for a handwriting to arise. We will take all actions that are effective, which are agreed, which are implemented jointly. It's a common thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u284	Thank you very much, Minister. At the same time, I ask you to silence telephone calls, which sometimes interfere with speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, please, the debate is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent Commission has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Teacher Card, print No 2106. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Municipal Government Act (Prints 1969 and 1994). I would like to ask Mr Jack Protas to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u285	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report on the committee's work on amending the Municipal Government Act, prints 1969 and 1994. The project was sent to us through the Committee on Petitions. This is a civic project. The project is short - it contains one article. At the committee meeting in consensus, we modified it a little bit. The point is to make sure he's exhausted all the needs for these changes. I would like to say that, during the committee meeting, we thought that we would proceed quickly and efficiently on this short civil project, but that there were a whole range of comments to the citizens' budgets and their functioning, ideas to improve the functioning of this tool, and that the committee will work closely on these solutions in the near future. That is why today the committee recommends that we accept this proposal without amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u286	I thank the rapporteur very much. I would like to inform the High House that the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the wheels. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u287	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Municipal Government Act, prints 1969 and 1994, a very short project, but important from the point of view of local communities. This proposal was submitted by the Committee on Petitions and subsequently worked by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Its aim is to create more flexible rules for the distribution of the civil budget in those municipalities which are not divided into supporting bodies. Why is this project so important? Because it concerns the civil budget, a very important element that strengthens local ties and strengthens the foundations of civil society. The citizens' budget is a democratic process in which the inhabitants themselves co-decide to allocate part of the budget of the local government unit in the percentage of public expenditure determined by the local authorities in a given financial year. The importance of the civil budget is expressed in the fact that, on the one hand, it serves to activate the inhabitants in public life and to increase the public interest in the functioning of the local government and, on the other hand, it promotes greater openness of local authorities to the needs of the community and greater relevance of investment decisions taken. The civic budget therefore has a very important social function, it increases the sense of identification of residents with a given community and trust in selected representative bodies. The concept of participation is a key concept of civil budget, and this budget is also called a participatory budget. Participation, or participation, is one of the basic elements of citizenship. It defines the right of citizens to participate fully and equally in the exercise of power in the city or other local authorities. Citizens' participation is one of three elements of citizenship alongside individual rights and nationality. The citizens' budget, broadly implemented and efficiently implemented, could be a cure for the lack of interaction between local authorities and members of the territorial community, for increasing public participation rates, for strengthening civil society. All those who discuss the procedure for implementing the participatory budget stress that the dialogue between local boaters and project promoters and the general public is a key element in all stages of the procedure. In order to enable citizens' budgets to fulfil their role, it is necessary that the rules governing their formation be precise and ensure that they can be implemented as widely as possible in local self-government units. In her report, the Supreme Audit Chamber, which in 2019 audited 22 municipal offices in six voivodships, drew attention to the inextricably precise statutory regulations of the civil budget. A number of interesting comments were also made by the City report2077 published in March 2019. In the documents cited, among others, he found himself. a proposal to develop flexible legal solutions to enable the functioning of the civil budget in various local communities to become a tool for increasing social participation and building a strong civil society. Such changes could contribute to a significant expansion of the urban and rural communities that initiate participatory budgets and engage in genuine social dialogue. Proposed by the petition committee and subsequently by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to amend the article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 6th Municipal Government Act responds to such suggestions and gives the municipalities the opportunity to allocate the funds of the civil budget in a more flexible way, adapted to the conditions of the municipality. It was during the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy that was strongly emphasised. The debaters even referred to Radom's case, where there were some problems with the implementation of this budget... [[There's no problem with the implementation.]] ...say: with the approval of the Regional Audit Chamber, and this project will certainly facilitate the implementation of this budget. It is clear that such a record will have a positive effect on the activation of local communities (The Bell), which will be able to become more involved in the immediate environment. With this in mind, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the above draft law and await these successive amendments announced by the representative of the committee. They will certainly be well received by local authorities and by local residents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u288	Thank you very much. Again, Mr Jacek Protas, this time as a representative of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although we are debating a very short draft law, which is very important, or an important tool for the work of local governments in the form of a civil budget. It is undoubtedly a tool of local development, and social participation is an important element of local government practice in Poland. First of all, it empowers citizens, makes them feel responsible for their small homelands, responsible for the financial economy of the city, commune, district or voivodship. Civil budgets are a relatively new tool. Although, interestingly enough, it was first applied in 1989 in Porto Alegre, Brazil, but soon it was also sent to Europe and in the 21st century it was gradually introduced - first in Western Europe and for the first time in Poland since 2011. We owe our first experience on this issue to the city of Sopot. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot of debate on the civil budget. It can be said that this has been a rather fashionable tool in recent times and has been discussed by representatives of NGOs, who are also very often beneficiaries of these budgets. The question arises as to whether this is an excellent tool or whether anything should be changed in the laws governing the functioning of the civil budget. Allow me to quote a few sentences from the report of the Batory Foundation, which investigated the civil budget. The Foundation has given seven points of such a good or even ideal civil budget. First of all, the decisions of the residents are binding on the authorities. Secondly, the process of creating and managing the civil budget is transparent and open. Thirdly, the budget allows everyone willing to join, while procedures are simple and understandable for most inhabitants. Fourthly, it provides room for discussion. Fifthly, it supports the population's activity. Sixthly, it's planned for years, and seventhly, it's reasonably high. I particularly like the last term: reasonablely high. Of course, discussions are conducted very widely on this subject, because these percentages, which are specified in the Act, are the minimum percentages, and the council of the municipality, district or voivodship can increase them. Ladies and gentlemen! Just like it's here today. We said we wanted to be a Commission The Local Government and Regional Policy, with the participation of representatives of the local government from the corporation - so we also agreed with corporate representatives - in the near future to elaborate or improve the provisions in the Local Government Act on the Civil Budget. We realize everyone's alive today. A little bit of something else, but it's time to lean over those records as well. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this short bill and we very much ask other clubs and circles to support it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u290	Thank you very much. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Monica Falej, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on the Commission's draft law amending the Municipal Government Act. The civic budget is a valuable element of good self-government practice. It is an expression of the participation of residents and residents in the management of the resources of the local community, but - what is equally important and perhaps even more important - it also gives us the opportunity to diagnose the needs and problems seen from the position of the locals themselves. Who knows better than themselves where a new recreational area would be needed, where the lighting system or the state of the local neighborhood streets is failing? Who knows better than the people themselves what cultural offers they need, what social problem they want to solve, and how will this be best done? The civic budget, which is not necessarily called participatory, is an effective tool to activate members of the local community to participate in its life. It is a democratic process where residents co-decide on public expenditure for the next financial year. This process should be constantly strengthened on many levels. The amendments presented in the bill under consideration are the best example of this. I welcome the progress of the work and universal agreement on the implementation of the changes. In the explanatory memorandum of the proposed law, we read that it is intended to serve the creation, and I quote: more flexible rules for the distribution of the civil budget in municipalities, especially in those which are not fully divided into supporting bodies. This is the right direction, but it is only one of the tools for achieving the objectives. In my opinion, they need far more. I believe that we should make efforts to ensure that the citizens' budget as a tool for participation is strengthened from year to year. Public awareness of this tool and the participation of residents and residents in this process should be strengthened. Local authorities should also be encouraged to benefit more frequently and on a larger scale from this form of participation of residents in the life of the commune, district or voivodship. With an increase in the efficiency of the use of the civil budget, it should increase its scale, i.e. the percentage of the population budget in the total budget of the municipality. As an activist, I was one of the initiators of the Olsztyn Civil Budget in the Warmia-Mazury region. Many local authorities also introduced such a solution at the time. I am therefore aware of the legislative difficulties regarding the implementation of this tool, the specificities of cooperation with the local government and relations with residents and residents. I also see how the civic budget has evolved in my region. The proposed allocation of funds into micro-areas within municipalities' support units is just a good example of the fact that this will be a better solution than the previous ones. I am therefore pleased that it is widely appreciated and has a chance to be adopted in the legislative process. Working on this project can be a good opportunity to make many other valuable changes to civil budget organisations. Therefore, in line with those who have also worked in committee, I request that further work be initiated on extending participation and improving the effective use of this instrument with the participation of residents and residents in the life of the local government community. I propose that a subcommittee be set up, which will be able to take a more detailed look at the comments, the proposals that flow, among others. also from my region, such as Elbląg, Iława or Olsztyn, to improve this process and the functioning of the civil budget in individual local governments. Efforts should be made to strengthen the role of the civil budget NGOs, regionalists and self-governments were more involved. Self-governments should be committed to activating local residents in the process of participating in the civic budget, both by reporting projects, by popularising them and by participating in the project selection itself, as this is also quite a weak point when it comes to the way projects are selected. It turns out more and more often that this is a form of vote, which is actually a beauty contest (the bell) for the number of votes, and it is not really about the needs that should be met. The Left Club will therefore vote in favour of these amendments and solutions. I am very happy that this is the project, and I hope that we will continue to work on the citizens' budget to fulfil its role in the local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u292	Thank you very much. Ms Bożena Ironowska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland this year will celebrate the 25th anniversary of its existence. I would like to point out here that both Mr. Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski and my colleagues from the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club are the initiators and organizers of this year's celebrations. Chapter VII of this Constitution is devoted precisely to local governments and their influence on the exercise of power in our country. The revision of the Constitution, as well as the reform of the 1990s, started the development of self-government and civil society. From the perspective of more than 20 years of reforms are assessed as these, and so we hear how we talk to the people who have succeeded the most. They serve the Polish state and serve the citizens. Thanks to these reforms, local governments have gained a great deal of autonomy. For us and for local government officials from the Polish People's Party these changes were very important. It is precisely from the ranks of the Polish People's Party that many prominent self-governments, who undoubtedly contributed to the development of their small homelands, originate from the ranks of the Polish People's Party. We want an open and innovative government. The work of self-government is based on dialogue with residents. This is how self-government inspires action. Therefore, the amendment tabled to the law, which is a committee project, is well assessed and even expected by municipal authorities. Thanks to it, the municipality will be able to share the resources of the civil budget more flexibly between the various regions and parts of the municipality. The purpose of the law prepared by the Sejm Committee on Petitions is to create more flexible rules for the distribution of the civil budget in municipalities, especially those which are not fully divided into supporting bodies. Under the current rules, funds spent under the civil budget may be divided into pools covering the entire municipality and its parts in the form of support units or groups of support units. According to the author of the petition, which inspired the committee to undertake legislative work, the current rules do not serve the public and restrict the municipalities' councils. He pointed out that although in many municipalities they exist historically or territorially shaped villages, districts, settlements or other areas with which the inhabitants are identified, they are most often not the auxiliary units reflected in the statutes. In this situation, the Councils of many municipalities cannot allocate funds to the citizens' budget between regions, parts of the municipality. The current provision as adopted on 11 January 2018 does not create major difficulties only when the entire municipality is divided into ancillary units. Therefore, as indicated in the justification for the project, the substance of the amendment is the deletion in Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 Words Act: in the form of ancillary units or groups of ancillary units. In this way, the proposed law will enable the municipalities to allocate the funds of the civil budget in a much more flexible way, adapted to the circumstances in a specific municipality. This will also allow citizens to be more involved in the selection procedure for funded projects than when the civic budget is not divided into different parts of the municipality. I consulted this amendment with local government officials in my constituency, who are most in favour of implementing it. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u294	Thank you very much, Commissioner, also for emphasising the anniversary that we will celebrate. On 2 April, 25 years have elapsed since the National Assembly adopted the Constitution in force, the longest in force of all democratic constitutions which the Republic had. [[Applause]] [[He's important.]] I ask Mr Krzysztof Tuduja to present the position of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u295	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What deserves to be emphasised is a nice process on this project: a citizens' proposal to the Parliamentary Committee, submitted to the High House and probably voted out. So here we are dealing with a double emphasis on pro-Citizen attitudes. And it is these civic budgets - I think it brings together all political forces - that emphasize the role of conscious Poles, conscious and active, who take responsibility for their local communities. So it's a good, right pattern. And the regulation itself, by submitting it, makes the management of the municipal budget more flexible in relation to civic budgets and as such it is uncontroversial. On the other hand, the time in which we are debating, the time in which we reflect on local government, would suggest that we lean on issues related to crisis management and defence. Namely, in accordance with the Crisis Management Act, each municipality should have a crisis management plan, moreover, updated every 2 years. The question arises as to whether these crisis management plans are now being intensively and rapidly updated. How did this work in the event of a crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border and how did it work in the case of a crisis at the Polish-Ukrainian border? And here is the question whether our crisis management plans are really plans full of multi-optional imaginations, or rather they are made in municipalities to piss off as simply an unnecessary document. I think it's very important at the time we're here. So are they up-to-date, or are they? But who also works in municipalities, in powiats too, in crisis management positions? Are they competent people, or are they people who simply have added tasks in this area that are not the subject of their deeper reflection? This also leads us to the difficult questions, but important today, what the civilian defense stock states look like, what we would find interesting there. Unfortunately, I say it with trembling in my voice. I'm also asking for objects that can be used as anti-aircraft shelters. The question is, do we have an inventory of such objects? So that these are questions in terms of defence, in terms of crisis management (the bell), which today needs to be raised in the context of the local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u296	Thank you very much. Ms Hanna Gill-Friday, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u297	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The solutions proposed by the project are not controversial and we will not oppose them, but I would like to say that the proposed changes to the public budgets are not sufficient. Let us remind you that the provisions on the civil budget have been implemented by the Act of 11 January 2018. They were, as it were, introduced out of a certain political need, so they were introduced quite quickly. Such attempts have been made to improve them over the four years since they function. There have been attempts by the Polish Cities Union, the Polish Metropolitan Union and the Partying Practices Forum. Unfortunately, these trials were not effective. Why? Because the citizen's budget in its original form, even in Porto Alegre, where budgets come from in general, is not a plebiscite in which it wins only stronger, but consists in participation, in discussions, that the inhabitants sit together, talk and choose projects themselves - that is not necessarily the ideal of the civil budget - not necessarily in a vote, where only those who are able to raise more votes, but in deliberation, in such an in-depth decision-making process that teaches people citizenship. This law, when it was adopted in 2018, appeared at a point where in certain cities, e.g. in Gorzów Wielkopolski, the civic budgets were already in such a way that the vote was unnecessary, because the inhabitants of a given district or individual of an inner city sat down and deliberated themselves about what they were choosing for this year, what projects they needed. However, the Act imposed some iron rigor and unfortunately restored this plebiscite action. For civil budgets In fact, it would be necessary to set up such a broad team, in which there would be practitioners from local governments, in which there would be activists, in which, with a little good will, this law could be opened for solutions better than those in it, so that the inhabitants, too, who have grown up for a deep discussion, would be satisfied with the citizens' budgets. Poland 2050, of course, will support this project, but we believe that it is far from sufficient. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u298	Thank you very much, Member. The list of speakers on behalf of clubs and circles is closed by Mr Stanisław Żuk, who will present the position of Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal authority in Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 with the content of: The appropriations spent under the civil budget may be divided into pools covering the whole and parts of the municipality or the quota categories of projects covering the whole or part of the commune area will allow for the creation of more flexible rules for the distribution of the civic budget in the municipalities, especially those which are not fully divided into support units. Current content of the article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 the Municipal Government Act: Funds spent under the civil budget may be divided into pools covering the whole municipality and its parts in the form of support units or groups of support units - limits the activities of municipalities councils and does not serve the public, which I can confirm as a multi-annual local authority. Although in many municipalities they exist historically or territorially shaped villages, settlements or other areas with which inhabitants are identified, they are most often not auxiliary units. This makes it impossible for the councils of many municipalities to allocate funds to the citizens' budget between the various municipalities. These difficulties do not exist only when the entire municipality is divided into support units. Deleted in the current article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 Act of expression in the form of ancillary units or groups of ancillary units will enable municipalities to allocate funds from the civil budget in a much more flexible way, adapted to the circumstances and needs of a specific municipality. This will also allow for greater involvement of residents in the selection procedure for funded projects than when the civic budget is not divided into different parts of the municipality. It is true that people are much more interested in projects when they know that they are selecting a project to be implemented in or directly related to their immediate vicinity. As the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy, with regard to e.g. the fact that the proposed solutions will allow the municipalities' councils more opportunities to allocate funds to finance the civil budget and to distribute these funds evenly between the different areas of the municipality and to increase the effectiveness of the residents in the project selection procedure, we support the proposed solutions and we are in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. On this list, the list of people enrolled in the vote has been exhausted. 16 people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list again? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Traditionally, it can be said as the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the Municipal Government Act, individual municipalities may spend funds under the civil budget and the changes contained in the amendment of the law will significantly make the distribution of these funds more flexible. I have a question: Does the Minister have knowledge of how many municipalities will improve the conditions for distribution of these funds within the civil budgets after this change has been introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u302	Thank you very much. Oh, second, almost every point, Mr Jan Szopiński, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions adopted must lead to the following question: Who, and on what basis, is to divide the citizen's budget into new categories, what is the percentage breakdown to be applied? At the end of the question, which must be asked: Does the creation of categories under contract distort the idea of the civil budget? In my opinion, the problem of the functioning of the civil budget requires further work to activate the participation of citizens in this budget, in order to develop in this House the best solutions that can be worked out in the civil budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowick, also from the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u305	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Citizens' budgets are an important element of our social life, giving citizens a sense of efficiency, commitment and decision-making about what is happening around them. This is a very good part of this project, this instrument, this tool. But we can also point out that citizens' budgets are often of an action nature, sometimes a little random, although of course their advantage is the fact that people decide for themselves. I have a question for the initiators who are interested in this issue. Wouldn't it be good for local governments, already within a strategic policy, to have some educational strategies (The Bell) for their citizens and citizens, so that preparing and thinking about what is going on around them is not only an action plan, but also often a wider solution to these problems? So I think it's worth thinking about what's next with the participatory budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u307	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, beyond the political divisions, we have managed to expand the scope of the proposal put forward by the Committee on Petitions, because it has dealt with part of the problem which unfortunately was generated by this part of the room in 2018, when a hard muzzle and a framework for how the citizens' budget should be conducted, unfortunately, with the many congenital errors that were found in this project. We are restoring some kind of normality in the civic budget, because I would like to stress that in my hometown, in Radom, the civic budget has been implemented since 2013. After each edition of the civil budget there are evaluation workshops and in the framework of these workshops we came to the great creation that we wanted to carry out, but unfortunately the regional accounting chamber saw errors in the resolution on the basis of which this budget was implemented, because this resolution was not in line with the records that the previous High Chamber adopted in 2018. Now we're back to normal. We will be able to share projects in the citizens' budget for urban and residential, district projects, and within these districts - for projects up to a certain amount, up to 50,000. and up to 1 million so that a small bench assembly project does not compete with a large infrastructure project, e.g. the construction of the cycle path. I therefore encourage all ladies and all Members to vote in favour of this amendment. I would also like to thank Mrs Annie April, who agreed to sign the joint amendment as part of the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u308	Thank you very much, sir. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. Is Mr Przemysław Koperski in the room? There isn't any either. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u309	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no doubt that it is right to adopt a change aimed at creating more flexible rules for the distribution of the civil budget adapted to the circumstances in specific municipalities. This in turn will allow for greater involvement of residents in the selection procedure for funded projects than when the civic budget is not divided into different parts of the municipality. It is obvious that people are more interested in projects when they see that they make a choice between those to be implemented in their immediate surroundings. It is high time to appreciate the role of local self-governments in the lives of local communities. It was the local authorities that proved to be one of the greatest achievements of our transformations after 1989. The current crisis related to the influx of citizens from Ukraine shows the great role of local authorities, who each day bear witness to how much they are needed and how much local authorities should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this amendment is very much needed, but other measures are also needed to increase the participation of citizens in public life. These changes, which entered into force in 2018, introducing the rules that we are updating today, have caused a lot of problems. As a self-government officer, I know how much we have had to do to make changes to the rules governing the functioning of the civil budget and how much this has caused complications. That is why it is good that these changes are happening today. I call on the House to create such a framework in Parliament to facilitate and encourage citizens to engage in public life rather than to create a framework that restricts, in some very narrow way, the limits of their functioning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is local governments, local communities that know best how the civic budget in a given village, even if the budget, should function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u312	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u313	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In general, civic budgets are extremely friendly, important, I would say, a tool. Once, when we were elected president of the village council, I also inspired, with all the advice we inspired, we offered various solutions. Citizens' budgets are subject to a certain assessment, and well, of the community living in the area. There are support units such as: The council just settled down. In this connection, I have a question: Is the government planning to strengthen the councils of the settlements in terms of powers and competences in financial matters, such as these, I would say, the most mundane, most close to people in the field of infrastructure renovations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, It is the inhabitants of the commune who live in the relevant territory that form a local government community. This self-government community, thanks to legal solutions since 2009, also knows another form of participatory budget, which is the Sołecki Fund. This Sołecki fund was introduced in 1527 municipalities into 2174 municipalities in which the settlements function, i.e. almost 70% There is a participatory budget in the municipalities where the villages function. In total, almost PLN 700 million were spent, of which the aid amounted to PLN 130 million. Does the government therefore also consider a partial refund from the State budget of the resources spent by the municipalities under the participatory budget on similar terms as the Sołecki Fund? It would be the support of the municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You just mentioned an important anniversary that awaits us on April 2nd. I had the honour to be one of the members of the National Assembly which adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on 2 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u316	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this information. It is a great honor to be a member of the National Assembly which adopts the Constitution. Please feel invited to the celebrations on April 2nd and another, which I will inform you about in due time. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The petition, resulting in this draft law, was filed at the end of 2019. The year is now 2022 and it was not until January that it came under discussion. Why are you so late? If it were to address very complex issues requiring extensive analysis, it would be understandable, but it would be a simple matter: the distribution of the civil budget in local government units. This example shows how the government is committed to making positive changes at municipal level. It also shows what the current authority has towards the citizen, because the citizen's budget has a direct impact on the inhabitants, the quality of their lives in the locality. It's a good thing that we're working on this bill today and that there's going to be this change, but it could have been definitely earlier. I have a question: When does the government intend to start working on clarifying (the bell) solutions to the civil budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u319	High Izbo! Today we are leaning towards improving the way in which the civil budget is spent. At this point I would like to remind, in particular, the empty right-hand side of the hall, the governing camp, the PiS, that for more than two years, since 11 March, i.e. since the day of the Council, 2020 there is a draft law in the Seym freezer strengthening the state, a law amending the law on local government. I would also like to remind you that at the meeting of the local government committee you rejected the proposal to amend the Act on the Sołecki Fund, because in the past year you did not pay as much as PLN 94 million in relation to the statutory limits of the municipalities as much as PLN 94 million. Instead of returning at each threshold - 40%, 30%, 20%, you return 24%, 18% and 12% . This is an outrage. It is time to lean on this issue. At the same time, I remind the chairman of the committee of local government that he was kind enough to commit (the bell) to explain in the Ministry how the work on this issue looks. Still no hearing, no sighting. So if you are concerned about the citizen's budget, take care of a similar solution for rural areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After the change of system in Poland, as we created local governments, we created self-government, one of the elements of the action was the building of civil society. We wanted as many people as possible to participate or participate in decision-making upside down. It is known that everything is always politicized upstairs, they know better what needs to be done down there. Of course, the citizens' fund goes against it, many people work in organizations, in various social areas, but many people don't care. This fund is a certain incentive that someone can decide about himself, about investment in a given village, etc. In the case of Sołecki funds, the municipality e.g. He says, you've got so much, we're gonna put so much, and, for example, we're gonna build a sidewalk, we're gonna make a bench. In this project, the decision on the civil fund could be for the whole municipality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask, in what way - let's reverse this situation - the people will say, if I tell them to give a fund that already exists to one community for a purpose, how it will be undertaken bottom-up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski will now speak. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the sake of civil society, I wanted to add to this basket issues concerning young people, and precisely youth city councils. Very many city councils and youth councils of municipalities are appointed in local self-government units, but they often remain without funding. The young people who work must ask the mayor, the mayor, the president - to wait for the council's approval and special budget records - for any funds. Wouldn't it be worthwhile to talk about modern self-government, one that gives a sense of civic mission, to provide the youth councils of the city with systemic support, which will allow specific measures for cities and municipalities that will call up the youth councils of the city to be separate for these young people. At the same time, in cities such as Inowroclaw, Bydgoszcz, Tuchola, wherever advice is or will be, there is a chance that money will be determined in advance and no one has to fight for it. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This change is quite small, but rather revolutionary. There seems to be a need for an information campaign, a campaign that will allow us to know the possibilities addressed to those who can implement this budget - that is one thing. The second thing I wanted to ask you is that now much smaller individuals will be able to apply for money. Sometimes it is that we need some more money - maybe this year we want to give up, and for the second year we want to take more money. The budget is cleared annually and there is no such transition. So far, the local authorities have gotten along: you will help us this year (the bell), we will help you for the second year. Are there any suggestions in this regard, government plans? Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, with regard to the financing of local governments, today we are facing a great problem. Let me just remind you that Polish Ład takes the amount between PLN 11 and PLN 15 billion from local governments. In addition, there is an international situation and a great burden on local authorities when it comes to receiving refugees from Ukraine. My question is this: Does the government plan to change the system of funding for local governments, so that local governments actually have more funding for their current activities? Second question. Of course, the bill is heading in the right direction when it comes to the citizens' budget. However, the question is this: Do you analyze as a ministry, how have these civic budgets been implemented so far? In how many municipalities and local governments, especially where there is no obligation to implement these budgets, and how have they been implemented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What tasks and what amounts were involved? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. One last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the one hand, we are talking today about solutions that will allow more flexible use of citizens' budgets. On the other hand, the Act adopted at the previous meeting of the Sejm creates a risk that these budgets will be abolished. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to appeal to all local governments: do not freeze the public budgets. Participation is a celebration of modern democracy, which creates investments in cities that people really need, and that makes many people feel part of the local community. Now help for Ukrainians and Ukrainians is organized using a number of places that were created thanks to civic budgets, such as skylights, sports halls, cultural houses, etc. Participating budgets are an excellent tool to make this assistance and social inclusion even better. This will be especially necessary in the near future. It is not a question of money and savings, but awareness that residents have the right to co-decide about their local budgets, about the budget of their city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They must not be deprived of this right. So ladies and gentlemen of all cities, towns and villages throughout Poland ask you: do not raise your hands to civic budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u330	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers Michał Cieślak to answer the questions asked. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The civic budget, also called the participatory budget, is a mechanism allowing local people to co-decide on spending part of the financial resources which, in the area of rulership, the functioning of the municipality is at the disposal of the local government, but in this case also the social one. We can only talk about the citizens' budget if, during a democratic process, discussion, debate and decision-making, citizens can decide for what purpose, how and for what projects some of these funds want to spend. They are therefore involved in prioritising and planning public expenditure. Currently, in accordance with the provisions in force, or more specifically, with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, funds spent under the civil budget may only be divided into pools covering the whole of the municipality and its parts in the form of support units or groups of support units. It therefore appears appropriate that the division into areas should be individual for each individual and adapted to its specific needs and needs, so that the needs of the local community are taken into account as best as possible. In view of the comments you have made here today and the project under examination, we consider it absolutely reasonable to clarify the above. rules that serve in this particular case residents of a given local government unit and the local public. We therefore recommend that the Commission's draft law on amending the Municipal Government Act, prints no. 1969 and 1994, be directed to further work. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Local Government for their favourable position on this matter. Of course, I would also like to thank in principle all the wheels and clubs that today expressed their willingness to support this project. I also thank you for this substantive discussion, for all the questions you have addressed to me. I will try to answer a large part of these questions in writing or orally if you wish. I will refer only to individual statements, because some of these questions should, of course, be addressed to the authors of the project. I would like to address Mr Adamczyk's question, which asked whether and what percentage of municipalities and local governments will be affected by the regulations introduced. Both the authors of the project and mine will have an impact on the overall 100% local authorities, because they make opportunities more flexible and guarantee greater freedom in the design of expenditure in general for every local authority. Mrs Wanda Nowicka mentioned education. Of course, full agreement. This education should be applied as much as possible and we should all make efforts to educate young people, especially the local community, on participatory budgets. There are plenty of resources, including for NGOs and various non-governmental institutions, which can use them and carry out such training and social activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Suchoń mentioned that the settlement communities are often largely limited in the processes relating to these budgets, budgeting. Of course, there is also an opinion here that these solutions will have an important impact on this type of action. There were also talks of the Social Fund - 70% municipalities. They asked if the government was planning to refund these funds. I would like to remind the High House that we are working after a broad consultation of the project ¿The Council 3.0 - Development without barriers. Most local governments, institutions, unions and organizations in the 30s...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u332	Minister, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u333	...the functioning of local government in Polish lands directed attention to us. We are working on solutions that will allow us to set up a codification committee so that we can create this together, eliminate these development barriers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u334	You'd better get out of here, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u335	Your Marshal, two more words. As for the rest, I would like to thank Mr Gawkowski. Youth is very important, as much as possible, in order to put young people on the front line in the field of self-government co-existence, local councils, the measures that you have spoken of here. As much as possible, we are trying to find solutions in this area to make them effective and durable.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u336	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u337	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u338	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code (Prints No. 2041 and 2061). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the draft parliamentary bill amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code. The project is included in print No 2041 and entered the Sejm on 9 February this year. It was addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, and its first reading took place at the joint meeting of the two committees on 8 March this year. The committees immediately joined the detailed work on the project and, after its work, present this report to the High House in print No 2061. High Izbo! This draft law provides for an amendment of the article. 32 Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. The proposed amendment aims to ensure that tenants have the right to a replacement and to cover removal costs due to the need for renovation or demolition of a building that needs to be emptied. This obligation rests with the competent municipality. The Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code set the date 31 December 2021 as a limit for the application of that provision. It must be clarified, however, that the deadline has been amended several times, extended by successive amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of the project in question is proposed to amend that deadline by 31 December 2021 to 31 December 2024, i.e. an extension for a further 3 years. It should be noted here that this phenomenon of lodging tenants is dying, but it does exist and it should be said to respond to it. High Izbo! One can say that the problem that we are dealing with here is a remnant of the right past system. After World War II, many buildings were settled in cities, but there was no financial mechanism for restoring this resource. After decades of unrenovated, decapitalised buildings require demolition or renovation, which is most often impossible in the presence of tenants. The provision I am talking about here also concerns tenants of tenants of tenants returned as a result of reprivatization and for these tenants is a rescue. The draft law submitted assumes that the provisions of the period from 1 January 2022 should be covered. It is important to maintain the continuity of solutions that have existed for years. As I said, this term has been extended many times. Ladies and gentlemen, it was up to 31 December 2021 that the municipality had the obligation to provide tenants with the right to a replacement and to cover the removal costs due to the need to renovate or demolished the building, which needs to be emptied. It is therefore appropriate to maintain the same arrangements for situations which may take place from 1 January 2022 until the date of entry into force of the Act in question. The project often involves people in a material situation, in a bad situation of life. Therefore, since public authorities have the opportunity to provide social security for citizens, this should be maintained and public authorities should benefit from this - I am talking about local authorities. The shorter period of vacathio legis of the draft law is dictated by the need to adopt the proposed regulation quickly. In fact, it would be good if it were adopted in 2021. This solution clearly serves to safeguard the interests of the tenants and minimises the lack of continuity in the performance of the tasks of the municipalities in this area. High Izbo! During the detailed work on the project, the joint committees adopted two amendments. The first one adds Article. 2, where there has been a change in numbering. Art. 1a has been re-numbered due to the need to organise a legislative, editorial project. This amendment or this inserted article extends the deadline for implementing the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs. The second amendment is the legislative consequence of the first amendment and amends, clarifies the provision on the entry into force of the provisions in force. I would add that this is about 21 regulations, which are within the remit of several ministers, which should be issued by 21 September (The Bell) this year. There is therefore a risk that they may not be issued, and we must try to avoid a legal vacuum, hence these two amendments. Marshal, I'm almost done. Both amendments were accepted without votes against. First - 38 votes in favour, with 17 abstentions. Second - 42 votes in favour, with 16 abstentions. The consequence is also the amendment of the title of the law. The whole of the draft law contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Print No 2061 was adopted by 46 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u341	High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government, please adopt a draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on ensuring accessibility to persons with special needs, contained in the report of the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u342	Thank you, Member, very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Simon Weather. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u343	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code, print No 2041 and print No 2061. The project is a short project, but it solves a very important problem. It envisages, among others, amendment of the Article. 32 of the bill indicated and aims to give tenants the right to a replacement and to cover removal costs due to the need to repair or demolished a building that needs to be emptied. In case the tenants were accommodated due to the poor technical condition of the premises in the building, the municipality had to provide a replacement premises until 31 December 2021. Today, this obligation is not really imposed on the municipalities, it expired at the end of the year. In accordance with the provisions of the draft law we are discussing, it is proposed to extend that deadline from 31 December 2021 to 31 December 2024. In fact, we are talking about extending the deadline by another 3 years and imposing obligations on the municipality in order to provide the tenants with a replacement place and to cover removal costs. High Izbo! The proposed amendment is necessary, inter alia. because of the protection of the health and life of tenants of buildings threatened by a construction disaster. The lack of relevant provisions will result in the obligation to provide a replacement place only on property owners who will mostly not be able to comply with it. They are very often natural persons who do not have housing resources or financial resources for the acquisition of premises to which tenants could be transferred. This can often lead to situations in which the lives or health of those living in these premises are at risk. It is therefore necessary and very important to extend this deadline, both for tenants and owners of buildings that require demolition or renovation. It guarantees many tenants protection against sudden loss of housing and prevents homelessness. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Michał Krawczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modernity, Poland Initiative, Greens on the Act amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code, print no. 2041. This law consists in amending the Law of 21 June 2021, namely Article. 32. This Article provides that it is up to the municipality to provide the tenants with a replacement and to cover the costs of removal in the event of the need for renovation or demolition of the building in which the premises are located. However, that law provided that this obligation would rest on the municipality until 31 December 2021, and this amendment extends that deadline until 31 December 2024. Although the extension of this deadline is, of course, justified in the protection of tenants, two key questions arise. The first question is why it was not until 9 February 2022, and therefore more than a month after the law entered into force, the State submitted a draft amendment to that law. Why did you leave yourself in the uncertainty of tenants who are currently not protected in the event of the necessary renovation of the premises they occupy? Currently, the municipality is not obliged to cover the costs of moving and providing a replacement place. Why did the amendment of the law not have an impact on such an important issue before the expiry of the current law? Why was the amendment, which concerns local government - this is the second question - not consulted with the local government? I know that this provision has been in force for more than 20 years, but that does not mean that it is not possible to consult the local government. Well, I have the impression that you suddenly realized that at the end of the year the law, which is very necessary, had expired, and in the manner of putting out the fire, you submitted a parliamentary bill. However, the question arises as to what will happen to the tenants from the end of this period, which is from the end of last year until the law is passed by us. And the second point I would like to raise. You are somehow so lightly moving on to this amendment that you tabled at the first reading stage in the committee. Let me remind you that you have introduced a new article into this bill, which remains completely unrelated to the matter of this bill. Even the lawyers at the Sejm Analysis Office could not comment on this because they were so surprised at what you proposed during the committee's deliberations. So I have a question as to whether the introduction of an article that is not in line with the legal status of the bill submitted and amending a completely different law is in line with the art of legislation and whether it is legal. Shouldn't a change be made to another law in order to amend it? I think that's the way it's supposed to be. On the other hand, the amendment that you have written in this article includes Article. 66 Act on the "Availability + ¿' programme. This amendment involves extending the period of 36 months, i.e. 3 years, to 60 months, i.e. 5 years. So you are extending by 2 years the period foreseen for the preparation and implementation of the necessary regulations which result from this law. So you already assume that within three years you will not prepare these regulations and that you will extend the time limit for the preparation of these regulations by two years. I therefore have a question of why you have not prepared these regulations so far, and on what basis do you know that it will take another two years to prepare them. Let me remind you that this law and these regulations concern the preparation of the public sector to ensure at least minimum availability, which guarantees the availability of a public entity by designing new solutions and removing existing barriers. It is about architectural accessibility, digital accessibility and information and communication accessibility for people at risk of exclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Falej, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a position on behalf of the club Lewis regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code, prints No. 2041 and 2061. The draft law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code provides for the amendment of the article. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market. The proposed amendment aims to ensure that tenants have the right to a replacement and to cover removal costs due to the need for renovation or demolition of a building that needs to be emptied. This obligation lies with the municipality. The proposed amendment is necessary and aims to restore continuity in the protection of tenants' rights. It should be adopted in 2021, but it is in principle unfounded at the moment, so let us focus on the proposal itself and its social impact. Of course, as a Left, we will always support actions aimed at protecting the rights of tenants and ensuring that they have access to municipal premises not only in the exceptional situations on which we will focus today on this project. On the other hand, we will always urge that municipal premises be a wider, effective tool for community social policy. In order to do so, there is a need for systemic changes to build more of them and to provide the municipalities with funds for the renovation of existing premises. By focusing on today's draft law and referring to its records, I would like to say that we will support these proposals. Of course, we fully agree with the comments of the Legislative Office, which indicated that changes in the case law should be introduced by adding a new editorial unit, not by amending a rule that has already expired. However, given that this is another revision of this provision and that it is a solution beneficial for the tenants, the Sejm should adopt this proposal. And the Left Club will also vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u348	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u349	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code, prints 2041 and 2061. The proposed amendment aims to ensure that tenants have the right to a replacement and to cover removal costs due to the need for renovation or demolition of a building that needs to be emptied. This obligation rests with the competent municipality. The Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code set the date 31 December 2021 as the limit date for the application of this provision. There was talk of a shortened vacathio legis of the proposed law. This is due to the need for the proposed regulation to be adopted swiftly, given that it should be adopted in 2021, and is justified by the need to properly safeguard the interests of the tenants and the need to minimise the lack of continuity in the performance of the communes' tasks in this area. And we know very well that this should have been done much earlier, as pointed out by the ombudsman who warned against the consequences. In the Ombudsman's view, this condition, which was after the last day of 2021, could lead to negative consequences for both tenants and owners of buildings which were excluded from service. If the legal status does not change, the obligation to provide the tenants with replacement premises will rest solely on the owners of the building. As you can reasonably imagine, most of them will not be able to live up to it. Here, of course, we need to cooperate with the owners of the buildings with the relevant local authorities. It's a good thing there's an amendment. She needs to be admitted as soon as possible. Of course, these amendments, to which there were also various objections at committee meetings, need to be discussed. We will probably accept them, but such an introduction, as mentioned earlier, is wrong, something that many people have paid attention to. Of course, we will support this bill because the locals who will be forced to leave are waiting for it. Today, of course, we must accept this. Thank you very much. We will vote in favour of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u351	Dear Marshal! Minister! There's no controversy here, or take this recipe, because he's just needed. The more important question is why we're making it. Because if this provision needs to be extended, it means that thousands of people in Poland live in rotting, rotten, mushroomed houses. I work in housing, but I don't understand why we're still living in a country where children are raised under these conditions. Why do we still live in a country where seniors fear that the roof will fall on their heads? Why is the state in a state of constant war with local governments, the victims of which are tenants? Because while the money for renovations is in the subsidy fund, there is always a part of it left, because the law is too rigid for the municipalities to make full use of this fund. 'Cause it fell with a bang in the apartment plus. Today at the committee meeting we listened to an epitaph by NIK for this programme. [[A voice from the hall: You didn't listen, but you tried to give it.]] Available energy efficient and cheap apartments are needed now, not just regulations that talk about bringing people out of ruins. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u352	Thank you, Member. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code aims to ensure that tenants who pay rent are entitled to the regulated rights to the replacement premises and the costs of covering the removal due to the need to repair or demolished the building, which requires emptying. This obligation rests with the municipality concerned and the Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code set the date 31 December 2021 as a limit for the application of this provision. The project submitted to us envisages extending the application of the replacement provision by 3 years, i.e. until 31 December 2024. It is known that the project will have an impact on the budgets of local government units, but it is not possible to estimate it because the number of buildings - which are the property of natural persons - settled years ago in administrative mode, nor is their technical condition known. The draft law is rightly intended to cover the period from 1 January 2022. This is due to the need to regulate possible situations in which the municipality has so far been obliged to provide tenants with the right to a replacement and to cover the removal costs due to the renovation or demolition of a building that needs to be emptied and which could take place from 1 January 2020 until the date of entry into force of the Act. The project often involves people in a bad material and life situation. The State, in its capacity to provide social security to its citizens, should make use of these opportunities. As near Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy we are in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u354	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u355	Let's start with simple things. We are where we are, there's nothing to start with difficult topics. So the simple fact is, it's March 23rd of the year of your 2022. The bill, which some evil man brought to this Sejm, extends the term, which already expired on 31 December last year, until 31 December 2024. - almost three months after that recipe just expired. No, we are not introducing it here again, but in the 2019 Act we extend the operation of this transitional provision as if it never ceased to apply. If we accept this provision in this form, the bill will pretend it didn't happen. And God really knows what this will lead us to, and what with this period between, or perhaps even God does not know, because philosophers claimed that even for God it is impossible to do what has already happened. And in this Seym, that's what happens. Look, I'm afraid time travel is way ahead of our era, so stop it a little bit. In this part of the universe you can travel only from the present to the future, at a rate of 60 seconds per minute, no more, no less. Travel backwards is strictly forbidden. This is, unfortunately, another time when you're going legit when this legislative mess comes out. The adoption of huge laws in 2 days, we have had this many times: without reading, without reflection, the intrusive addition to the laws of non-related amendments, in this act we have it again. The original legislative technique of bigos used in the so-called. Shields, consisting of collecting various ad hoc changes in unconnected packages, ignoring constitutional terms, giving power to Brussels by an unconstitutional majority and now passing legislation backwards. It's all really unbelievable crap, ruining the law and ruining the state. How is it right to respect citizens if you treat them this way? And as for the substance, there's no reason to prolong this next social privilege. Some people have the privilege of moving in at the expense of others. Really treating the rental of premises as some reason for claims against other people is the left-wing aberration that you unfortunately repeat. The apartment is a commodity, not a law. If the contract ends, in this case due to e.g. the necessity of demolition or renovation, it is simply the parties that return to the point at which they voluntarily concluded this agreement and spread out in peace. If the landlord's apartment is the only reason we're doing this is because he rented this apartment to somebody, some kind of caretaker of the people he rents it to, then let's not wonder that they're all running away from such contracts, trying to get away with more flexible solutions. So triple no. Not for this bill, not for legislative time travel, not for amendments not related to the subject and not for social privileges for tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Question one, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we will discuss the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code. The article is to be amended. 32, which extends the protection of tenants until 31 December 2024. I wanted to ask you why such a date, perhaps it would be worth considering extending this protection or making it permanent. And the second question is: What happened during these three months, were there situations, and do you have such knowledge that the tenants were not protected by January, February and almost all of March 2022? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u358	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Although this project is, from a social point of view, very much needed, there are two questions to be asked. Question one: Wouldn't it be advisable to extend the protective period to at least 2026 at the time of the country's exit from the economic problems caused by the pandemic and the very serious perturbations associated with the war going on beyond our eastern border? And the second question, the question to the Minister, perhaps the most necessary of these questions: Why is this solution not working for the third month in our country? So there's nothing going on here. Who neglected it, and why does the government only now come and want to change the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune (the bell) and the change of the Civil Code? Minister, I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u360	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u361	The law on the protection of the rights of tenants is the best symbol of how the rights of tenants in Poland, for years, are treated as a stepmother. This tenant protection is actually illusory and essentially non-existent. Things go on for years, people live in unworthy conditions, and what we're actually doing is essentially extending the deadline. But I wanted to ask if it might not be appropriate in this situation to delete the deadline by which this law is to apply at all, i.e. simply to state that the municipality provides the tenant with compensation for the costs, that it rests on the municipality concerned for an unlimited period of time. Because I'm afraid we're not gonna be able to keep this term in 2024 either, and we're gonna have to revise the bill again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So why don't we just close this deadline, which we're probably not gonna realize anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing important regulations for the protection of tenants, and I would like to ask when the government will also decide to protect the owners of the premises. When will you prepare a project that will abolish a rule that has been in force for two years, banning absolutely eviction for the duration of the pandemic? I would like to say that the Ombudsman is asking for this, the local authorities are asking for it, and they are calling for us to be able to carry out tenants who do not pay rent after final evictions of eviction. Is it fair, or can you not pay rent in Poland? Often - and I know this as a long-term self-governmentman, an experienced self-governmentman - this applies to tenants who have not paid rents throughout their lives, or for example. The tenants who are tearing down the premises. I think it is high time that this law strictly prohibits eviction, enforcement of final judgments in Poland to be abolished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to tell me when the government is going to do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u364	Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. There isn't. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u365	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It has become a tradition that the government gives to Poles and Poles a number of different kinds of benefits at the expense of local governments. This change is part of the accepted practice of financial exploitation of these local authorities. I would like to quote part of the justification for the project in a clear way: The project does not have any financial implications for the state budget. The proposed change will have an impact on the budgets of local government units, but it is not possible to estimate it because the number of buildings owned by natural persons residing in administrative mode years ago is not known. Their technical condition is also unknown. This project was not consulted with local authorities because it is a parliamentary project. Question: "Why didn't work on the proposed regulation start earlier in 2021?" Thank you very much (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u366	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u367	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let's go back to 2015. The discussion on this bill looked exactly the same. There was no consultation, there was no discussion with local governments, there was no further reflection on whether these regulations should continue to look like this, or whether there should be some other mechanism. I must say, after reading the transcript of 15 December 2015, that this is exactly the same discussion. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Why in these seven years - in the next seven years - the government has not analysed this solution in such a way as to be possible. improve, change this system to some other one, and if there is no possibility of changing it and it must remain, then why systematically, sometimes every year (the bell), the Sejm deals with this provision, extending it for another year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u368	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the contested law, the municipalities will have to bear the cost of moving people who live in buildings for renovation or demolition for the next three years. There is no doubt that the rights of tenants should be protected and that the State, having the social security capacity of its citizens, should benefit from them, but this aid should be concrete and be effective. Why does the Act contain no compensation for local government units? Here's another thing. The contested law should still be adopted in 2021 in view of the need to safeguard the interests of the tenants and we are only considering it now. What is the reason for such a long delay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u370	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This law, although it works backwards, works in good faith to protect citizens who rent their apartments, among others. by paying the regulated rent. In my opinion, this protection should enter the Polish legal system permanently. In this debate there was also a case concerning a small number of municipal apartments for rent or a low standard of these apartments. The left presented the construction plan during the debate on the National Plan for Reconstruction, among others. 75,000. apartments for rent. This proposal of the Left was accepted by the government, introduced in the National Plan for Reconstruction. I would therefore like to ask the representatives of the government when the government intends to start implementing this programme, because according to the government's information, other segments of the National Reconstruction Plan are already financed (the bell) from the state budget despite the lack of a decision on this matter by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As Vice President of the City of Opole responsible for municipal affairs, including, among others, in 2015 I carried out a huge reform in Opole in support of the Left, the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice. I am very much in favour of finding a wise consensus here, because the issue concerns all local governments. I do not hide that my view of this is very clear. I believe that the housing stock of the municipality should be treated in such a way that it should never be privatised, and that housing should be distributed to those groups that need it most because of the income criteria. I received every Friday residents, single parents raising children with disabilities, mothers whose children were abandoned by fathers, families with many children. The Polish state must have support mechanisms for such families. But it is also very important to introduce an income criterion, a verification, which I will, of course, encourage the Ministry to do, because it is so that after 5, 10, 15 years (the bell) many families get better material status and in my opinion should leave the communal apartment, which should go to the more in need. But there should be a post-political consensus on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For 30 years we have been looking for a way to solve the problems of the Polish housing market. In the beginning, there were several entities that owned apartments. Former municipal, cooperative and factory housing. Later, the works were largely disposed of, handed over to the municipalities, and they were told: "Take care of yourselves. " Substances in many cities, I see it in Lower Silesia, are very outdated. Some cities are 700 years old. I'm not even talking about antiquities conservators who keep a certain order when it comes to keeping these cities old-fashioned, but it costs money. And now I'm going back to this: after every government change, everyone says they're going to solve this problem. And these are TBSs, and these are cheap apartments for rent, and these are other solutions that live + ¿, and there is really no serious debate on this issue between government and local governments to solve this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without it, we will only talk about the misfortune of people who, as Mr Sosnierz said, do not have to conclude an agreement. They don't have to. They just don't have a place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u376	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! December 31st Ub. The period of validity of the Act, which guarantees the persons whose premises must be renovated, provides the municipality with a replacement and covers removal costs, has expired. It is likely that in April the law will come into force, which will bring this provision back into force, acting backwards. I am able to imagine such a situation that someone who has incurred the cost of moving will probably be able to turn to the municipality - as I imagine - for reimbursement of these costs. What about those who, yesterday, today or tomorrow, will be forced to leave their premises because their building threatens to collapse or must be renovated according to the will of the municipality? What in such a situation, Minister - I also ask you Members who are the authors of this late act for a few months - when someone found out today that he had to leave his premises, and the municipality is not obliged under applicable law to offer him a replacement place? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u378	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u379	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I, too, have a question in terms of providing a replacement for people from empty apartments, but not only. Most of all, I am concerned with the development of deserts. There are various estimates of the number of deserts, which also indicates the lack of inventory of this phenomenon. We estimate there's about 200,000. deserts in rural areas and 46 thousand. in urban areas, which are, of course, much better inventory. Now, the question to the Minister: Do you and the government provide for legislation that would allow these deserts to be used in this extremely extraordinary situation when we have to provide housing, to be our neighbours from Ukraine? It seems to me that this is also a way to distribute evenly in Poland the people who come to us. I think that these depopulated villages (the bell) are also a good place to find a new home for visitors from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question because, as many people have said here, the bill works backwards. The rules were to apply until the end of the year and will now apply until 2024. During this time, are you planning to work on a system solution so that there is no situation that we will meet again in a moment and we will wonder how to fix the situation that will happen and act backwards again? For me, it is important whether a system is envisaged, whether long-term work will continue, and not only ad hoc, as regulations will lose power. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u382	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u383	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants living in municipal resources. However, I would like to ask about the residents of housing cooperatives. I would like to remind you that the Act on Special Solutions for Preventing, Preventing and Combating COVID-19 introduced a provision which in fact led to a ban on the organisation of general meetings in housing cooperatives, which has some consequences and has effects in the form of, for example, preventing decisions on thermomodernisation or the election of presidents of housing cooperatives. Today the situation is improving, and I would like to ask: When will these loosenings occur? When will these changes (the bell) be made so that these general assemblies can normally be held again? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill under investigation secures the interests of the tenants. This problem concerns mainly the inhabitants of large cities: Warsaw, Cracow, Łódź, Poznań and Gdańsk. The opposition today accuses that it is a parliamentary project, a project late, but, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Law and Justice have fulfilled this parliamentary obligation to citizens. On the other hand, you very closely associated with the presidents of these cities, which I mentioned, have done nothing in this regard. I therefore thank Mr Paul Lisiecki, who initiated the project and the process on it, and I ask you not to interfere with the work on this project at this moment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Minister Piotr Uściński to answer his questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Many of these questions were de facto questions to the applicant, because it is a parliamentary project, not a government project. Believe me, he has really been prepared by a Member or a group of Members. In this respect, we did not have any indication that this was a big problem in the ministry. The Member in his parliamentary office, I understand, is meeting with such matters. We have information about this, as the rapporteur said, that it is now a marginal problem, but even if it concerns only a few people, it is still worth leaning on, so we thank the Member for preparing this project. From our point of view, this project deserves support to this extent, because in fact, people who are currently using those apartments in which they were once accommodated on a municipal basis, then somehow after reprivatising these buildings to the rental system in fact currently market. This tenant protection at this point may still be useful in some cases and an extension of this deadline will certainly not hurt anyone, and some people, some people, can help. I think that the parliamentary amendment, which emerged at the stage of the process on these provisions, is very valuable, and for this reason this project deserves support. Ladies and gentlemen! It was - the rapporteur said - 21 draft regulations drawn up in various resorts in connection with a law to ensure better accessibility for people with special requirements. In my resort it is prepared e.g. a regulation in this respect concerning the technical conditions to be complied with by buildings. One of the most important, major changes is increasing accessibility for people with disabilities. New technical conditions for buildings will require, e.g. As far as multi-family buildings are concerned, lifts from the third floor, which will have the appropriate dimensions, so that the wheelchair can enter so that it can turn properly, in the case of a service building - even from the second floor. There will also be wider ramps for disabled people. These different regulations are expected to introduce new solutions of this kind. The term is theoretically until September. In the current situation, when we are actually looking for locations throughout Poland - and local governments, and private owners, and we are thinking about it - and in government facilities... Everywhere we look, we think about where we can take refugees and how to increase this housing resource. In this situation, it would be a risk to introduce the technical conditions I am talking about. Anyway, if you'd like to see which way these technical conditions... They were consulted a few weeks ago, so you can see what project was consulted. He changed a bit there after the consultation, but he's, you know, ready. But there are risks. If we were to introduce him now in September... And in a situation where we're really looking for additional premises, we want some apartments to be adapted for housing purposes somewhere, an extension of this term will certainly reduce the risks associated with such difficulties. However, an investor who will have new technical conditions - they are good for the disabled, very good and we pride ourselves on it as Poland, that we want to go this way... But if we introduce these conditions now, there may be some perturbation that sometimes prevent certain positive actions that this moment of history requires of us. The need to locate thousands of refugees is, I think, a very important topic. I think that the questions about the most frequent deadlines are the best questions for the Member. Why should it be three years, not longer or shorter? This is obviously a parliamentary initiative, a parliamentary idea. For me, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, this is some time chosen. Whether it's two years or five years, that's just how much longer it's gonna take. I think that, in three years' time, you will also be Members - whether from the (Ring) right or from the left side of the room - wondering whether it should come into force or whether this deadline is still being extended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u388	Thank you, Minister. The applicant's representative, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, asks for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can answer a few questions that have been asked. Why was it not until February 9, 2022? Here's what I'm gonna say. This is a parliamentary project, each Member, each group of Members, 15 Members, has the right to make such a request. We have submitted it, other Members - even if those who have asked such questions - have not submitted such a request. And I can answer here with a question of why you didn't file it. The problem related to the article. 32 Act on the protection of the rights of tenants actually applies to large cities, although there are situations in small towns. But how did this rule happen to be included in the 2001 Act? Because as a result of the communalization in 1990, local authorities received real estate, among others. real estate with tenants. People lived in these buildings, and often live, who concluded agreements with the local government or concluded them in the period of the Polish People's Republic. These persons have concluded these agreements in good faith with a representative of a public institution. Then as a result of administrative decisions, e.g. based on the decree of Bierut, but also other legal acts from the 1940s. In the 20th century, these buildings were returned or handed over to persons who were successors to former owners. Sometimes it happened that they weren't even successors to former owners, only ordinary thieves, but it was already a reprivatization scandal in Warsaw that showed that such cases took place. Those buildings were transferred with the tenants. Therefore, the legislator considered that if the technical condition of the building is bad... According to law, the municipal manager could not invest very much in such a resource, and therefore returned it in a very poor technical condition. We are dealing with a gateway that allowed these people to return to the municipal stock. She was restoring some order. The persons had lease agreements with the representative or with the local government. This was transferred into private hands including contracts, including personal data. In fact, it was - and it is still - one of the few gateways when it comes to returning to the municipal stock of people who had in good faith signed agreements for local communal council with local government. There was a question - actually it was a charge - why the government is again burdened. Ladies and gentlemen, the local government has certain responsibilities. The law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the law on the municipal self-government tells us what these duties are. The municipality's accident is the creation of conditions to meet the housing needs of the local government. It's part of the community's task. The municipality, in accordance with the rules and in the cases laid down in the Act, provides premises in the context of social leases and replacements, as well as meets the housing needs of low-income households. In conclusion, I would like to say that this provision allows to restore a certain state when it comes to tenants returned together with tenants e.g. as part of Warsaw reprivatization, but also as part of actions in other large cities. At the same time, it allows to lead to a situation where the owner who legally recovered such property can actually deal with its renovation without providing municipal premises, I'm sorry, the replacement premises to former municipal tenants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir. The rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch, is also asking for the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u391	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not repeat the answers given by the Minister and the representative of the applicants by Mr Lisiecki. There was a question about the situation of tenants between 1 January 2022 and the date of entry into force of the Act. That's exactly what Art is talking about. 2 which reads: The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication with effect from 1 January 2022. Continuity of the commune's obligation shall be maintained. It is a legislative procedure, which may not be some achievement of legislative art, to say the least, but it does its job, which is to protect the tenants. Why didn't it happen before? The municipalities weren't eager to alarm it, although they're resourceful. Maybe they didn't want to spend money. It's the tenants who are interested here, but maybe they're not organized enough. As regards the Left's request to provide the municipalities with funds for the renewal and expansion of the municipal stock, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a law of 10 December 2020 - that was Parliament's print No 534 - on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing. The adoption of this law made very large funds available at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, available to local governments. The Government Housing Development Fund was established - it is about PLN 1.5 billion - which was located in BGK. There is also a Donor Fund that has the same envelope. I would like to remind you that according to the regulations of this law, which I mention, social, municipal construction, the revalorisation of the old stock, both settled and unsettled, for the reconstruction of buildings intended for human residence, but not for residential purposes, in order to adopt them for residential purposes, municipal entities, i.e. municipalities, associations of municipalities and powiats, can receive 80%. financing. It's a very powerful program, so to speak. It allows municipalities to develop municipal resources. In this context, the statement made by one of the Members that the State is in constant conflict with the local authorities is simply, please, unfounded. I wish I had a conflict with someone, which is that someone in 80%. Donating my own tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, one more question. In the questions that were coming... The replacement location is quite different than the replacement location. According to the Act, if the municipality lodges a tenant, it is obliged to provide him with a replacement premises, the standard of which does not deviate from the standard of the accommodation in which the tenant resided. In contrast, the replacement has a much lower standard. Unfortunately, you have confused these two concepts. Thank you very much to the clubs and their representatives for their declaration of support for this project. He will serve the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u392	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems (prints No 2073 and 2088). I kindly ask Mr Robert Gontar to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u393	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems. The aim of the bill is to improve the rules for the performance of public administration tasks in connection with the development of public ICT systems. These tasks shall be governed by the law. It is not possible to change the rules for their implementation without a legislative initiative. During the first joint meeting of the committee on 17 March, a discussion was held on the draft. Five substantive amendments were tabled during the work, which we worked on on on 22 March. All amendments have been welcomed by a majority of committee members. The Committee on Infrastructure, together with the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, welcomes the draft law on amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems and requests its adoption together with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u394	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronics systems, prints No 2073 and 2088. The project presented concerns the improvement of the rules for the implementation of public administration tasks by increasing the efficiency of the activities of the National Education Network and the faster and comprehensive implementation of the central register of drivers. The aim of the amendments to the Act - Traffic Law is to launch the CEK 2.0 construction project as soon as possible and to ensure that it can be implemented in a step-by-step manner. Therefore, the project enables the competent minister to commission two public entities: the Polish Securities Printing Works and the Central Information Technology Centre for the construction, development, implementation and maintenance of the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration Information System. Until now, such a provision only included central vehicle records. The Act will also enable the Minister responsible for computerising the keeping of drivers in violation of traffic regulations to be entrusted with the new registration system. As part of the development of this system in place of the currently used software SI The vehicle will be made available the web application of the CEPiK 2.0 system based on the so-called architecture. A thin client. The application will include processes carried out by recording bodies, local authorities and will enable communication with other ICT systems. The draft law will give the Minister the opportunity to issue appropriate communications relating to both the deadlines and the scope of the implementation of technical solutions, which will enable the new system to be implemented gradually in line with the increase in its functionality. The proposed changes concerning the Act on the National Education Network aim to improve the maintenance and proper functioning of the network and complement the tasks of the OSE operator. Applicants note that the National Education Network can provide an excellent platform for the dissemination or implementation of activities in the area of digitalisation of the education system. Therefore, it is proposed to supplement the OSE operator's responsibilities catalogue with measures to support the digitisation of the education system and to include school heads. The proposed changes will make it easier for the OSE operator to obtain data transmission services for individual schools. The purpose of further amendments is to enable the OSE operator to directly order work on the creation and maintenance of ICT tools by the Central Information Technology Centre. The project proposes to allow the RES operator... [[RES?]] OSE, YES, OSE OF COURSE. Thank you very much. ...to use contractual penalties enforced from unreliable counterparties to carry out the tasks of the OSE operator. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of the changes are positive and will support the parliamentary bill amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems, prints No 2073 and 2088. In addition, I would like to make three amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking for these corrections. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs Paluch, Mr Piech, if we are disturbing you, you can leave and move the talks outside the plenary room. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Grzegorz Napieralski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Act amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems. I would like to present our position on this bill. This project involves two major changes. The first is the possibility of ordering the implementation of the central register of drivers 2.0, the IT system, without a tender, the possibility of ordering either the publisher of documents or the budget establishment. The second change - broadening the scope for implementation of project types by the National Education Network, as well as relaxing the requirements for competitive proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we have a parliamentary project. Such important and important changes are being made by the parliamentary project. These changes concern at least several areas of activity of the State, including the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as local authorities, which both issue documents and are founding bodies for schools. No external events shall justify the urgent need for such changes. In terms of the impact of the changes, the government path should be introduced and not as a quasi-committal project with the amendments being put in place - I would like to stress very strongly - before the committee meeting of the next amendments. I would also like to refer, ladies and gentlemen, to what the rapporteur said, who presented the work of our committee as if it were very peaceful as if we could discuss it. No, we couldn't discuss it. The break was only because the Legislative Bureau had not prepared its opinion, and the attempt to discuss was brutally interrupted by a Member of the Law and Justice, who requested the end of the discussion, and we were voted out as an opposition. And that's what happens. We have also just seen, ladies and gentlemen, that although it is a parliamentary project, even though we were told that it is discussed, thoughtful, there are again three amendments to this project. This means that it is not a prepared project, it is not consulted and we really need to work on it quickly again. Applicants indicate that the exclusion of the system of central registration of drivers from the strict public procurement law is necessary for the proper implementation of the project and the use of agile design methodology. Even putting aside arguments, disputes and polemics, it is worth noting that local governments have to deal with similar and equally complex tasks. Self-governments are doing fine, and this is the Ministry. whether the government simply has to run off in some strange way because it can't handle it. Since the Minister believes that the Public Procurement Act is bad and insufficiently flexible, I propose that this law be dealt with and discussed in order to ensure that this law is prepared under the rigour of another government contract. Extending the scope of tasks possible by the nationwide educational network, among others. about modernising the school networks is another example of centralization, such a very rapid, clear centralization. This reminds me of a very bad policy, a worst-case policy: we give to our schools, we give to our self-governments, because the explanatory statement indicates that among others. As a result, OSE, a nationwide educational network, will be able to use KPO funds to invest in schools. Meanwhile, this money could be spent successfully by local governments, and some investments would be possible by local companies. Another thing that I wanted to draw attention to is that the proposed exclusion of the need to conduct merger lease proceedings by the OSE is another general provision limiting competition and introducing discretion. And it's not meaningless -- that's what I wanted to say at the very end and very strongly emphasize -- that we would give all this money away, and this is huge money, in the hands of just one minister, without any social or market control, and I remind you that we had a pandemic to transfer that kind of money, and we know what happened to the huge purchases. Till today, we've got these things unsolved. I therefore recommend voting against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u398	Thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The assumptions may have been correct, but there was a lot of doubt during the discussion of this project during the committee's deliberations. The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to enable the Minister responsible for computerising the commission of works on the construction, development, implementation and maintenance of the ICT system serving both the central vehicle register and the central driver register. To date, the provision only included central vehicle records and in order to properly implement the central register, we are persuaded that it is necessary to extend the scope of the project to the entire IT system operating both registers, not just one of them. It was also explained during the committee's work that the rules would allow for the construction of uniform solutions for the operation of vehicle registration processes and the issuing of documents stating powers, as is the case with the system of state registers. The project also aims to amend the law on the nationwide educational network as part of improving the maintenance and proper functioning of the network. Our first doubt, also expressed at the committee meeting, is precisely about the very fast legislative path and the total centralisation of this system. The Minister was kind to say that this is intended to improve the rules for the performance of public administration tasks and that, in view of the emerging risks of cybercrime, central records provide security guarantees. I wouldn't say anything negative to you about the work of local governments, and that sounded like your words. At least that's what you said, that the local authorities didn't guarantee this security, and you also spoke about other individuals who work on this system, and who, within their competence, with all the rules and standards in force, care about this important aspect. During the committee's work, it absolutely sounded like it. The second much more important issue that is worth raising here is that the Minister is given powerful tools in the form of centralised systems and huge resources at his disposal within the framework of the KPO, whose control in this area will be very limited. It is worth mentioning here a warning about the devastating control of the CEPiK system, which was carried out by NIK in 2018. I am reminding this to the caution and in good faith that there have been problems with this system in the past, so handing such powerful tools into the hands of one minister can have the opposite effect. And one more important question: Have you ever consulted this project with entities using this system and do you have any signals regarding its acceptance by the local government? Please inform me about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u400	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary project on important issues includes changes in education and the functioning of public life, including vehicle and driver records. Why is it a parliamentary project, why isn't it a government project? Why isn't it being prosecuted by the government, and why don't we have the government's opinion on this? Why is such a fast path adopted regarding the implementation of this law? I would like to ask if the government envisages changes to the software in the communications departments. Will it be a tender, or will another contractor be selected and otherwise? The most important, however, seems to be the project and the most important opinion that comes from this proposal, which you have so well prepared, that you have just tabled for your own draft amendment... How can this be done in Poland over a law which in a moment will cover all Poles? In my opinion, when one of the databases changes its name in six months' time, 20 members of the PiS will once again be eager to prepare another amendment of the law. Why are you wasting your time, that I will not mention the time of the High House? Why isn't it a government project? Why is this and not another work of yours caused that in Poland we have the most obsessive volumes of laws, often inconsistent and even contradictory? If the Minister had responded in writing to my club, what is the government's opinion on this bill, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the condition for voting on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u402	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u403	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives' position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems, prints No 2073 and 2088. Among these changes mentioned earlier, among the laws to be amended after the adoption of the project is among others. Traffic law. The amendment to this Act, as justified by the project, aims to launch a project to build a central register of drivers as soon as possible. 2.0 and ensuring that it can be implemented in a step-by-step manner. Another amendment concerns the CEPiK system, the extension of the functionality of the system, the application to be used by the authorities competent to issue documents stating driving rights. The project also includes changes to improve the process of maintaining the proper functioning of the National Education Network and complementing the tasks of the OSE operator. The project also proposes changes related to the time limits for the implementation of the different systems and their parts. In addition, amendments were tabled during the committee's work, which allow for a more flexible setting of the deadline for the completion of these systems. In the light of these changes, the competent minister will be able to announce the launch of the various functionalities in the communication and will not have to adapt to the deadlines set out in the Act. As it was said here before, it's done quickly, it's done on the knee. Just the fact that the minister will be able to move the deadlines shows that this is another project that is under-precise, unchecked, undiscussed. That's what it looks like today. That's why we are so quick to proceed on individual bill projects, to return to them in a moment, to adopt further amendments, to make further changes. Can't you do something once and for all? If we had it prepared and properly checked, we would probably not be wondering today why and how it is introduced. However, the Government of the United Right has already got us used to it, that everything is being done at a fast pace, there is no time for committees, amendments are introduced immediately on the occasion of the submission of the draft, on the occasion of the work of the committee, and most amendments are made by those who were to prepare the draft. So you can see how it's done. Of course, we have no reason not to. If you want to update and change, we will support it, but in the end, you will take responsibility for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u404	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u405	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronic systems. High Izbo! According to the justification of the bill, the price of the regulation is to create a legal basis for, quote, a comprehensive order and undertake work on the construction, development, implementation and maintenance of the ICT system of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers and to increase the efficiency of the operation of the National Education Network. I'll focus on the first part. This includes the construction of new systems that operate the registers of drivers and vehicles and systems that enable the performance of the tasks provided for by the regulations. As a result of the adoption of these rules, it will be necessary to build further new systems that will serve stakeholders, offices, companies, services, probably at least dozens of such systems. This project allows the Minister of Digitization without any competitive mode, without tendering, without the application of the Public Procurement Law to commission the performance of computerization tasks, by de facto spending tens or maybe hundreds of millions of zlotys at the discretion of the Minister of Digitization. So what if he can hire state-owned companies? Even the Sejm Analysis Office indicated that it might be illegal. This also applies to the National Education Network. Not to mention a healthy approach to public money. This project is an example of creating the worst pathology in public spending and this needs to be said openly here. But that's not all. The actual result of the adoption of this law and the construction of new systems will be the disposal of systems used so far. Worse yet, no one is able to estimate how many hundreds of millions of zlotys will go to the basket. On 13 November 2017, the government boasted that a new version of the CEPiK system had been launched. By the way, it came to light that the project, which was originally founded on 150 million PLN, will cost up to 300 million. With systems serving stakeholders, again offices, services, companies, that's a lot, much more. And basically it goes to the basket - several hundred million zlotys, also local ones, so the result of this project. Is the High House aware of what the Minister came with, that this law should not be a parliamentary project, what amounts are we talking about? First, can Poland afford to throw several hundred million zlotys into the basket? Despite the fact that new systems are to be created, the explanatory memorandum states that the project does not entail any financial burden. I don't know. I think it's magic. New systems are set up, we don't know for how much, we don't know how much, but for free, we don't know when, because there's no schedule here either. But you'll be able to spend millions of zlotys without a tender. The non-obvious effect of this law will be to deprive local authorities of part of the competence to maintain local bases. There's a lack of consultation with local governments. We are making amendments whose effect (the bell) is to remove those changes which will result in pathologies for public spending.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u407	I'm asking you to welcome them, and for the marshal's hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u408	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u409	...I'm putting these amendments together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u410	Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems, print No 2073, contains proposals for changes which introduce: launching a project to build a central register of drivers with the gradual implementation, carrying out tasks related to vehicle registration in the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration System, extending the capabilities of Central Vehicle and Driver Registration to carry out tasks related to the granting of allowances, improving the operation of the National Education Network. According to the proposals contained in the project, it is necessary for the design of the entire IT system to include not only driver records but also vehicle records in order to properly implement the central driver records. It should be added that the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers is the system responsible for collecting information about drivers and vehicles throughout the country. Once such a system is in place, there will be an opportunity to respond to irregularities in the rights of drivers and records of vehicles operated. In the case of the functioning of the National Education Network, it is necessary to clarify the procedures of the operator of the National Education Network using telecommunications infrastructure and data transmission services. In view of the ineffective tendering procedure for the purchase of data transmission services for individual schools, it is proposed to grant the right to an operator of the National Education Network, the possibility of ordering a service to the Central Information Technology Centre, which is a budgetary unit subordinate to the Minister responsible for IT. As the Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy we believe that the project is needed, but needs to be discussed in detail in the committee in order to eliminate any irregularities. We are in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u412	Thank you. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, on behalf of the PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've heard about the miracle diet so far, but the miracle bill hasn't seen it. And it seems that the name deserves this parliamentary project that we are now debating. It is a project undertaken in an area that is widely considered costly and capital intensive, including by government representatives. It is enough to remind that not so long ago, two or three months ago, we were investigating a very urgent draft of a government proposal establishing special allowances and salaries for people working in the government sector and dealing with computer science. Similar solutions were proposed by the Minister of Agriculture, who introduced the possibility of setting up a special company in an agency for modernisation and development, in order to further compensate those who work for the government in the IT sector. And here we read that the bill - this is a quote from the justification of this project - does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units. If it's not from the budget, not one or the other, I'm asking you where? 'Cause I don't think we're that naive to assume that the IT dwarves are coming and they're gonna do this to us for free. What do you mean, everything? ICT systems are, of course, expensive, complicated and very necessary, although management and care of these systems, especially the CEPiK system, are already in many governments as if they were popular. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if I understand this Parliamentary submission correctly, there is a silent deposit to the tomb of the existing CEPiK system. Perhaps some elements of it, rather for sure, will be used, but here are the new forces of those who are especially in the Central Information Technology Centre and in PWPW employed, there will be a completely new vehicle registration system and driver registration system. Therefore, the question of how much money we have lost as a result of this decision is pressing down on our lips, because I think these amounts are huge. And I am not satisfied with Mr Suchon's understanding approach here, who said that we do not know how much. I would expect government representatives in writing to know how much the CEPiK system has cost us so far. For these and very many other reasons - I have not mentioned here yet about the National Education Network, which also, according to the principle (The Bell) of the weakest link, deserves several critical wordings - I inform you that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u414	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u415	...we are against this message. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u416	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is not surprising that such an intense, fast procedure is to proceed over this law - the project is parliamentary, and it would be appropriate for it to be government. On the other hand, the question arises: Why is there such a rush, why is there such a rush, and does the Ministry in this case really foresee any changes in the software in the various departments of communal communications or district oldities? I would very much ask you to answer that question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u418	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public information systems - in short it can be said to Poles that the Sejm is forced to adopt laws which impose an obligation on individual offices to apply information systems. As I understand it, if it wasn't for this bill, the officials would still be using clay tablets and sending smoke signals to their colleagues. In my opinion, decisions such as this should not be taken in the Sejm, but at the level of ministries and should be modified according to current needs. However, one thing can be said about this law: that thanks to it several hundred million zlotys will be thrown into the basket as part of existing solutions and several hundred million zlotys will be released without tenders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland is a rich country.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u420	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u421	Minister! Please respond in writing to the question of what is the opinion of the Ministry on this draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u422	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u423	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the agile methodology for conducting projects assumes transparency, stakeholder involvement, the day-to-day transmission of information. The State stated in the explanatory memorandum that this project would be carried out in this way. It is surprising, however, that there is no consultation with local authorities, no consultation with stakeholders who work in this system every day. It's like you're saying, yes, we're gonna do great, but they're actually doing really bad. Why wasn't there a consultation, why wasn't it a government project? Why did the Minister lead to the fact that he was presented as a parliamentary project, although we all know that he was prepared within the government because he was to be an amendment to another law? Why isn't there a government position, why isn't there a minister responsible for transport? Finally, why was this project not consulted (the bell) in the Tripartite Commission? These are basic questions about projects and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u424	Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Another draft law implements bad practices, namely the non-interruptible mode of public spending and the identification of the contractor, excluding the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. I'm talking about the central registration of drivers 2.0. After all, a reliable specification of the essential terms of the contract can be prepared and the contractor can be selected transparently and subject to scrutiny. I would like to remind you that in recent months the government or Members of Law and Justice have brought many laws to the Marshal's staff that allow the contractor to be selected in a non-stop mode. An example is the provisions contained in the recent Act on the Defence of the Homeland, the provisions concerning the selection of the contractor as regards the construction of a wall at the Polish-Belarusian border. Question: "Why does another bill (The Bell) exclude the contractor from the rigors of the Public Procurement Act?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u426	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u427	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Members of this House! The state is functioning as long as critical systems are functioning, and these systems cannot work without data. In Poland, such data has been stored only in national server rooms for many years. I don't think we're using cloud services in our country, but there are some very commendable exceptions. The government announced the creation of such a service, the creation of a system so-called. common IT infrastructure of the state, but I have the impression that this project has not yet entered the stage of implementation. The first question is: When will this project be implemented? And second question. In connection with the ongoing war beyond our eastern border, do you provide for the possibility of storing data in cloud systems that are located abroad, in the countries of the common economic area, of course on servers that meet all security standards? Today in Polish law there are no recordings concerning such possibilities (The Bell), and remember that there are no server rooms in the world that would be resistant...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u428	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u429	...for artillery fire or bombing raids. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u430	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was submitted on this draft law, which concludes that this law on two issues is subject to examination of compliance with European Union law. Firstly, to the extent that the Minister responsible for IT is ordered, excluding the application of public procurement rules, to carry out tasks related to the construction, development, implementation and maintenance of the ICT system that operates: firstly, the central register of vehicles, secondly, the central register of drivers and, of course, manufacturers of public documents within the meaning of the Public Documents Act. Secondly, it is what enables the OSE operator to use telecommunications infrastructure or database without maintaining an open, transparent public procurement procedure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would therefore like to ask what is the government's position on the compatibility of this project with European Union law on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I had the privilege of being in Sweden, where we watched such a system of population records and everything that was going on in Sweden with the people of this country. There are two huge servers that are hidden in the mountains. They have almost all knowledge of every citizen from birth to death. There it is thought out, there it is safe, there it is consulted with the best professionals in the world. And it works. And with us, whoever wakes up in the morning, he's putting in some sort of system: and this is the CepiK records, and this is the vehicle records, and this is the driver records. What country are we building? That's one thing. Secondly, imagine that the Bundestag deputies, French, English or congresses bring such a project. I wonder what the government would say. This is outrageous, what you're doing. That doesn't ring a bell. It's a mess, one big mess. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u434	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The United Right has been in charge for seven years. The question arises as to what happened, that there is a parliamentary project on ICT systems. After all, this is a very complicated technical matter. This is a question of IT solutions, this is a question of cybersecurity, this is a question of a series of actions which the state administration and local government must take. What's the reason you're getting Members to sign a bill like this today? What happened to implement such a law as a matter of urgency? That's the first question. Second question: What budget did the state spend so that the vehicle and driver registration system could already be implemented? Because we understand that this bill has been blown up. And the third thing: What is planned for the implementation of this new system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many millions, hundreds of millions of dollars do we plan to spend without a tender? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u436	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask you to answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u437	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards questions concerning the government's position regarding this parliamentary submission, we can naturally also answer you in writing. Mr Cieszyński was present throughout the legislative process, at all stages of this process, also at the meetings of the Sejm committees. I'm here today, too. Our position as a government of the Republic of Poland for this parliamentary presentation is consistently positive. Mr Kwiatkowski also asked about the operating costs of the CEPiK system. He asked for an answer in writing. Of course, that is the answer we will give to the Member. There were also questions about the costs and scope of changes to the software. There was also a request to answer in writing. Of course, such an answer will be given to the Member. Mr Suchoñ also asked for the position of the government. This question was de facto answered when it came to the alleged lack of consultation. For you, too, Mr Suchoñ spoke of this. The parliamentary project was publicly available for 3 weeks also on the Sejm website, as well as local authorities were familiar with it. We know that no comments have currently been made on this project. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the questions why these ICT systems, which will be built, will be commissioned by our contractors, for example by the government, we believe that in the case of such strategic ICT systems for the Polish state it is best when they will be implemented by computer scientists and state structures, not by commercial entities, such as entities with foreign capital. These are matters of our country's security. As regards the question of the implementation of the common IT infrastructure of the State, I think Mr Grammar asked this question, the project is still being carried out. We want to end it like this by 2023. As regards the question regarding the compatibility of the project with European Union law, as a government, we absolutely believe that this project is compatible, and we do not see any conflict in public procurement law with European Union law. Once again, I would stress that the issue of strategic ICT systems in our opinion should be in the hands of the Polish state. We believe that putting this above the possibility of giving more European Union law is even a matter of state security. We'd like it to remain firmly in our country's hands. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u438	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Robert Gontarz, also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u439	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the very beginning, I will refer to the Member who said that the discussion was not possible on a full scale. Indeed, there was a vote, but I do not remember that at the moment when we were talking about amendments, in a special way we had to - me as an applicant or as a minister - answer the questions, because these questions were not at all, so it was not so that this discussion was not going to take place. There have been a lot of questions about why it is excluded, some of these contracts may be excluded from the Public Procurement Law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that there is an article. 100a paragraph. 5, which refers to the exclusion from the Public Procurement Law. It is not that we are introducing anything new because we want to create a certain total unity, one complementary system that will apply to both driver records and vehicle records. We're also putting in the central vehicle records. It's not like we're making something new. Of course, the exclusion from the Public Procurement Law may have some controversy if you listen, but if you read this bill for sure, then the controversy does not have to be so much, but it cannot be because of the fact that when it comes to producing and personalising documents such as registration documents or driving licenses, a monopoly, when it comes to producing these documents, is PWPW, and it does not cause any controversy, because if we want to ensure security, we must give a monopoly to the Polish Securities Printing Works, and it does not surprise anyone, and it did not surprise anyone, as there was not a single word to challenge it. On the other hand, if we wanted to implement the Public Procurement Law and full competitiveness, we had a contradiction with the PWPW monopoly, which had to be proved. Therefore, the arguments that this should be in Public Procurement Law are indeed irrational. There was also a question of why in the case of OSE, i.e. The National Education Network will also be able to go beyond competitiveness in a way. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that the National Education Network works very well and is very needed, but unfortunately there are schools that broadband Internet cannot reach, among others. because of too much distance, because private operators report such rates that they simply cannot pass as tenders are too high. And in order to avoid further and subsequent invitations to tender, which still do not identify any operator who would supply broadband, we introduce a rule so that these schools can use broadband. If anyone opposes broadband Internet being in schools, congratulations. On the other hand, there was also a question of why, when it comes to leasing, about extending this... Similarly, at this point some of those contracts that have been signed begin to come out slowly. Therefore, we want to introduce this possibility to give a chance to renew the contract that is functioning at the moment, but here I am immediately responding to all those who were very outraged about this issue, that we, as applicants, impose a limitation, self-limitation. It's a limit for the ministry that it can't create the rates it likes. There is a provision in this draft law that makes it clear and clear that this agreement must be signed in a complementary manner, both technically and financially. This self-limitation is imposed. So on the human language, if someone provided a service, let's accept for 100 PLN, and the contract expires at this moment, then the extension can be made, but it cannot be done on such a principle that the cost is increasing 10 times and is now 1000 PLN instead of those 100 PLN. Right - this rule is the mouth. 1c, clearly and clearly states - that such self-limitation is also imposed. Here it was said that we are denying the principles of cybersecurity in local governments. That's completely untrue. The Member to whom I am speaking, and who has asked this question, is now not listening, and has actually made such an accusation. Only, ladies and gentlemen, according to statistics, much more likely to break some protocol related to cybersecurity, some health at work is in case, let's say, 50,000. people than 500 people. It's quite natural. That is why we want to create a single database that will allow for complementary functioning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will not be three hundred and dozen databases, but there will be one database that will allow everyone to function together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u440	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes the introduction of a number of legal solutions designed to improve the rules for the implementation of public administration tasks. The proposed changes include: launch the CEK2 construction project as soon as possible. 0, as well as ensuring that it can be implemented in a step-by-step manner. One of the solutions included in the project is to extend the functionality of the CEPiK system to an application that will be used by the authorities competent to issue documents stating the right to drive - to carry out tasks related to the handling of matters relating to the granting of allowances. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What will be the costs of implementing and running this application? What is the planned date for making it available for use? Will the authorities authorised to use the application be provided with funding for the organisation of training in the use of new software?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u442	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on Infrastructure to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 55 hours 18 min 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u443	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the verification of the quorum. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 447 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity and the violation of human rights by Russia in Ukraine, print No 2104. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, in print No 2107. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity and the violation of human rights by Russia in Ukraine (Print No 2104). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity and violations of human rights by Russia in Ukraine The Sejm of the Republic of Poland strongly condemns the acts of long-term violence, war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocides, systemic violations of human rights and other criminal violations of international law committed in the territory of sovereign Ukraine by the armed forces of the Russian Federation together with allies at the command of military commanders under the direct authority of President Vladimir Putin. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites all States which recognise the sovereignty, territorial integrity and right of self-determination of Ukraine to support all measures to initiate and conduct proceedings before the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court, as well as to exercise their powers in any international organizations of which they are members, in order to attract Vladimir Putin, members of the Russian Security Council and commanders of the armed forces of the Russian Federation to be responsible for directing war crimes, crimes against humanity, acts of genocide and systematic violations of human rights which they commit in the territory of sovereign Ukraine. Publicly available evidence of these crimes justifies the recognition of Vladimir Putin by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and by the international community as a war criminal today. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the democratic parliaments of countries around the world and the European Parliament to recognise Vladimir Putin, members of the Russian Security Council and commanders of the Russian Federation's armed forces for the persons directly responsible for these acts and to sanction them as far as possible. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses unwavering solidarity with the free people of Ukraine and the democratic state of Ukraine. I ask that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The fame of Ukraine!]] [[Voice from the hall: Glory!]] Thank you very much, Members. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity and the violation of human rights by Russia in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have formal requests. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a break and a convent of the Seniors' Convention in order to extend the order of the current sitting of the Sejm to work on the resolution of the Polish Sejm, which today was submitted by the Polish Coalition club, calling on the government to take over the assets of Russian oligarchs and officers located in the Republic of Poland. No need, High Izbo, to change the constitution, no need to appeal to other EU countries to confiscate the assets of people working with Putin's regime today. We propose a very strong tool, which is a resolution for the High House calling on the government to confiscate this property. See: some European countries didn't need a change of constitution to annex the oligarch yachts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's go this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u445	Thank you, sir. A valuable initiative, but it came in late this afternoon and we're not in a position to do it right now. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have Minister Kaminski with us today, Minister Adamczyk, Minister Rau, Prime Minister, Prime Minister Kaczyński. It is a good time to ask you for actions that could close the way for Russian and Belarusian tirists through Poland. This is a good time, (Applause) for us to turn to the EU, to agree on a position that will really allow these transports of disgrace not to go through Poland. We are conducting activities that support Ukraine, but we also give the feeling that the Russian Federation and Belarus can continue to benefit from this war. Those trucks are carrying You don't know what it is. They certainly carry death, they're targeted against Ukrainian society. Prime Minister! It is a really good time for us to say as a parliament, but also as a government: enough trade by Poland with Russia and Belarus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u447	Thank you. [[Your marshal, with a formal motion.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In a situation where Poles perform the most heroic feat in the history of humanity, because no country has ever accepted 2 million refugees, one finds a hole in the whole. [[Voice from the room: Under these circumstances.]] [[Yes, sir.]] I understand that not everyone has to be a member of the Infrastructure Committee. I would like to kindly inform you that 3/4 of the trucks that leave Germany, France, Holland are not Russian trucks, but are going to Russia. You are constantly bragging that you have such a European schnitz. If you would be kind enough to convince the entrepreneurs and governments of these countries: Germany, France, so that they do not fill these trucks, the problem will be solved. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It's the government's job.]] That's the first thing. The second thing is this. I had only three from geography - I warmly greet my teacher - but I would like to kindly inform you that Poland has a border, e.g. with such a city, which in Polish is called the King, some call it Kaliningrad, so this truck can go there, and then (the bell) can enter Lithuania, Latvia or Estonia. The truck can also enter Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, eliminate this so that the Russians will not be sold goods, and then there will be no telling such nonsense in a situation where most Polish families are helping Ukrainians hard. [[Voice from the room: We? We?]] [[Voice from the hall: It's the government's job.]] [[Government! Government!]] You find a hole in the whole thing because the Germans, the French and the Dutch sell goods. Go back to reality. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But it's the government...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Say opposition or government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are here on formal applications. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. It's a formal conclusion, okay? If it's not formal, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u450	I ask for a language correction in the text of the resolution that we have just voted on. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Sit down!]] Everything is fine, only it is said: in Ukraine, yes, in Belarus, Hungary, Lithuania. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] It is not said: in Ukraine, it is not Polish. The Seym should set an example, use correct Polish. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sorry, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u451	One and the other form is correct, sir. I want you to know that. You should know that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u452	I can't hear what you're saying. [[And these are formal applications.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u453	Formal proposal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u454	This is a formal motion for an amendment, because we have a resolution with a language error...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u455	There is no formal proposal for an amendment, sir. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u456	If there is a war in Hungary, will we say: in Hungary? Oh, for God's sake! [[Sit down!]] Are we fighting Russia with prepositions? What are you doing? Don't mess up your tongue. For God's sake, at least respect the Polish language. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about when people die?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u457	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u458	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! As we will vote on the amendments that impose sanctions on Russian and Belarusian tira, I ask your marshals to make a formal request for a change of vote - for a roll-call vote. If there is no decision in this House to sanction Russian and Belarusian tira, then let the citizens know who voted against. There are two amendments which provide for the introduction of sanctions (movement in the Chamber). Do not blame, Mr Król - where there is a Member of the King - on the Germans, do not blame the French, there must be a decision. It is Poland that has a sovereign right to determine who can pass through our territory. [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]] [[Voice from the hall: Finally!]] And today is the moment when you have to make a decision, not bury your head in the sand. Are you brave enough, or do you have the courage to close our roads to Russian and Belarusian tirades, or will you continue to allow them to carry things that maybe go to war? [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u459	Thank you, sir. Mr President, there is no need to shout, the microphones collect well. Besides, it would be good for Poland to have the right to rule its own law in every case, wouldn't it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u460	You do, Marshal, you have the right.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u461	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u462	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ukraine is fighting. Ukraine is also fighting for Poland. This was mentioned recently at the National Assembly. [[Voice from the hall: Definitely not for Sikorski.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: For your mistakes.]] Ukraine is fighting for Europe as a whole, for European values. Today, it was recalled that the aggressor's army is still being supplied, that Russian tira, Belarusian tira are supplying Putin's army. Someone tried to blame the Germans and the French, but it's a disgrace. The fact that Polish trucks also carry this supply. [[Sit down!]] Yesterday, at the committee meeting, Minister Bittel confirmed that Polish tira rides with supplies to Belarus and Russia. We will therefore vote today on an amendment that makes compensation for those domestic carriers who will stop this shameful practice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Back it up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u463	Thank you very much. But why are you screaming like that? You can hear everything. [[To emphasize the importance of the problem.]] Minister Wawrzyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u464	Yes, sir, Poland has a sovereign right, but it is a member of the European Union. Until decisions to close trade with Russia are made at European Union level, Poland cannot do so because decisions on this matter are the domain of the European Union. [[We are talking about compensation for Polish carriers.]] [[Voice from the room: Amendment is...]] If you want to do this, please influence your political coalitionists in other countries to draft this proposal at European Union level. Then we can do it. We are prepared to do this, but there must be a decision of the European Union. If there is no such decision, there will be a breach of EU law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The rule of law bows down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u465	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u466	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today I took part in the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and I was hoping that all those who speak and make demands on restrictions that would be imposed on motor transport, including maritime transport... I was hoping that this information had come to Members and parliamentary circles or parliamentary clubs because of it. Turns out it's not. It turns out that you wish to speak only and only to bring confusion and confusion on the side of the tragedy in Ukraine. [[Ukraine.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You have not heard that I have informed you that the European Commission has received requests not only from the Polish government but also from the transport ministers of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia to impose sanctions on international transport and maritime transport in an extraordinarily special manner. Didn't you hear that when I talked about it today? Didn't you get that? Did it not occur to you that Poland with Belarus has only three road crossings, while Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have the remaining 11? Didn't you get that? Didn't you realize what I said at the Infrastructure Committee meeting? [[What does that have to do with anything?]] The point is that, for example, at the Estonia border with Russia, the truck queue is over 20 km long. Did it not occur to you that cars that do not cross the Polish border will cross other border crossings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the room: What is this formula?]] [[Stop the polish tira.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u467	Thank you very much. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Law on Higher Education and Science. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Law No 2090. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2090 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 442 - for, 11 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory and the Law on Higher Education and Science. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Families on the urgent government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2101. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2101, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 456 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory. We are returning to the review of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies with an urgent government bill amending the Act on the support of households to bear the costs associated with changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2092. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 38 for, 415 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2092 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 437 - for, 17 - against, abstained from 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on specific regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. The additional committee report is in print No 2094-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on specific regulations in the field of transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. At its 51st meeting, held on 23 March 2022, the Sejm, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law in print No 2094 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commissions: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Infrastructure, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 23 March 2022, invite the High Sejm to approve Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10 and to reject Amendments 5, 7, 8 and 9. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u469	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2094. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 456 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 7a. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 12a. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 456 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 15b. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 218 - for, 238 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 15a and Article 15a 15b and Article 15b 15c. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 219 - for, 238 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 16a. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 454 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2094, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 444 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on specific regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2107). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? [[Yes, Your Marshal.]] There you go, Mr Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday there was an important meeting of the National Defence Committee... [[Voice from the room: It just didn't happen.]] ... during which the meeting was discussed the issue of amending the Order on the modernisation of the Polish Armed Forces in the years 2021-2035. [[Voice from the room: Scandalous.]] It turned out, ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, that the Members who were to attend this meeting had been informed a few hours earlier that they were to go to a secret law firm to read this order and that they were to be able to read it. Just before the beginning of the committee meeting, it turned out that 40 committee members took note of this order, four literally four: President Jach, Mr Grzegorz Braun and two other Members. [[Voice from the hall: Names.]] [[Voice from the room: What time is it? Because it's not true.]] What happened at the committee meeting? Mr Grzegorz Braun pointed out that in a situation where 40 Members of Parliament know four (The Bell), it is not serious to discuss this. [[That's not true!]] Therefore, today you want to remove Grzegorz Braun from the National Defence Committee because he has revealed that you are not working properly. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u471	Mr Braun was excluded from the committee meeting, and she was hindered by her work. The committee had to meet today. This is not the first time Mr Braun comes to committee meetings not only for those he is a member but also for others. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] It simply prevents Members from doing their normal work. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But really, please, because I'm on this committee...]] [[Voice from the hall: Let's vote.]] [[Have you read the order?]] [[The voice from the room: Sit down.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2107 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] 455 Members voted. 438 - for, 10 - against, with a hold of 7. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 55 hours 18 min 56]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u472	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027 (prints No 2022 and 2065). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: for the European Union and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the Government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, Parliamentary Printing No 2022, Joint Committee Report No 2065. This major project of 144 articles focuses mainly on the implementation of the Partnership Agreement, including the implementation of cohesion policy programmes and the implementation of changes that organise the spending of funds from the National Reconstruction Plan. The draft law to which the report relates entered the Sejm on 21 February. The first reading was held on 3 March in the plenary room. The draft law was then addressed to the joint committees: the European Union and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The joint committees discussed the draft law at their meeting on 10 March. It was a few hours of substantive work, discussing the amendments tabled. Here it is worth thanking especially non-governmental organisations, who have also actively participated in this committee meeting. Of course, thanks to the representatives of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, to legislators, but above all to Members of the Joint Committee. In conclusion, I would like to submit to the High House a report, print 2065, containing four minority proposals, which mainly speak of social demands, and I would like to ask the Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u474	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice on the draft law on the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, print No 2022, report - print No 2065. As I emphasized in my first reading of the bill, thanks to the negotiating efficiency of the Government of Law and Justice and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in July 2020 it was possible to obtain record support for Poland from the European Funds in the amount of PLN 770 billion. It's a huge resource that needs to be managed efficiently. I would also like to stress that Poland, as a full member of the European Union, is absolutely entitled to receive these funds. The proposed law is to set up a framework and define instruments to effectively implement European funds and prepare for their efficient spending. Local government units, entrepreneurs, social organisations and, above all, ordinary citizens will benefit from this. The provisions we are working on are similar to those already applied under cohesion policy in the financial perspective 2014-2020. The need to develop them results, among others. from the new financial perspective as well as from the new regulations of the European Union. The bill itself focuses on the Fund for Fair Transformation and the Cohesion Fund, sets out the institutional framework and the rules for settlement with the European Commission, as well as the system for monitoring projects. The role of the Minister responsible for regional development, similar to the previous financial perspective, has been clearly defined, which will allow for efficient and experience-based cooperation between Poland and the European Commission. We maintain a decentralised system for implementing cohesion policy in Poland. This system consists of national programmes and 16 regional programmes. As far as solutions are concerned, the solution for determining the minimum duration of applications can be assessed positively from the perspective of the applicants: 40 days with competitive selection of tenders, as well as the option to amend the financing project if the changes do not affect the outcome of the evaluation of the project. This is a rather important change, because the duration of the project, its planning and subsequent implementation, makes some changes necessary. Flexibility in the evaluation of projects is important for their implementation. The next positive change concerns the limitation of changes to the design rules or the possibility of correcting an obvious error of its own motion. Another positive change is the introduction of improvements and the possibility for the beneficiary to submit objections electronically to the findings of post-control irregularities or the establishment of a time limit within which the controlling institution, after examination of the objections, is required to draw up final post-control information to speed up this process. As detailed support instruments, the projector envisaged, inter alia, integrated territorial investment. It is a well-known mechanism, which enjoys the approval of local governments. The rules laid down in the draft law concerning the selection of projects are characterised by transparency, reliability, impartiality, and also provide for equal treatment of applicants. Commissions the evaluation of projects which are appointed as an ancillary body with the institutions shall have the task of assessing the projects properly. An appeal system is also provided for to be able to appeal against decisions taken. The detailed procedure is set out in Chapter 16. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice puts forward six amendments at second reading, which mainly clarify the draft law, and advocates the adoption of rules that are a complete system of regulation that will enable EU funds to be managed efficiently over time. 2021-2027. Thank you very much. I'm giving you the Marshal's report of the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u476	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have been debating for several weeks a very important legal act, which, by amending the provisions in several laws, is intended to enable the implementation of programmes with European support in the period 2021-2027. This is more than EUR 100 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Many times from this stand, as well as from committee meetings, there were calls for us to rise above divisions in this difficult situation and act together and listen to our voices and reflections. We in the Civic Coalition do this, but, as they say, it takes two to tango. We have been very cordially asking at the first reading to include our amendments to the bill. Unfortunately, at committee meetings, practically no amendment has been taken into account. Minister! While the cohesion policy part in 2021-2027 is a copy of the similar July 2014 Act, we have little comment, but we have a few amendments to the instrument for rebuilding and increasing resilience that translates into the National Reconstruction Plan, a highly centralised recovery plan, we have a few amendments - literally five - and we call on the Minister to accept them. I would like to draw attention to the amendment concerning the extension of the catalogue of refundable fund managers within the framework of the National Plan for Reconstruction and the amendment to the Act on National Tax Administration introducing the principle of two-instantity, guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We talked about this very widely on the committee. I pointed out that the current provisions of the National Tax Administration Act pose significant risks to financial stability, especially to voivodship authorities, which are managing bodies 40% appropriations in the European budget for the following years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u478	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Please consider these amendments as something that will really improve the quality and transparency of at least part of the National Reconstruction Plan. Minister, there is no reason to be concerned and you should not be concerned about adopting these amendments, because the standard that Poland has achieved over the last several years, when implementing European funds, should actually concern all elements. That is why we are making an amendment on the extension of the tasks and competences of the monitoring committee. That's what I'm talking about. the monitoring committee could approve the criteria for selecting projects under the National Reconstruction Plan so that it could monitor the selection of projects or approve the criteria for granting non-refundable aid. These are very important elements, and there's no reason for you to be afraid of that. We also want to delete in the article. The 126th amendment you made during the committee work. There is a record that if, for whatever reason, funds are not coming to Poland to finance the National Reconstruction Plan, you will finance it from the issue of bonds. It's the wrong way. Besides, I think on the basis of recent reports that perhaps this amendment by the PiS Members is already simply obsolete. It's really worth removing this amendment. Third amendment, very important. We want the articles in chapters 14 to 16 - there we are talking about contracts, the selection of projects - also about those projects, the projects that we will finance from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Minister! You really can't treat these measures as an individual minister's allowance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can't be that the minister's making a reform, he's making a plan, he's reporting projects that he's gonna finance, and no one's gonna check him out, no one's gonna look at his hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u480	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u481	Please, one more sentence. We do not propose amendments to NGOs because we support all minority proposals. There is no reason, Minister, to fear greater participation of the social side in the implementation of European funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u482	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u483	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Left Club to the committee's report on the government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. I would like to say that we stated at the committee meeting that we would work together to make this document a real response to the needs and that all parties, including the social one, should have the satisfaction and participation in what will be going on in terms of achieving the tasks financed by European funds. Unfortunately, these proposals from the social side have not been taken into account and have therefore been submitted as minority proposals. However, I hope that we will be positive over them, because I think that social comments should be taken into account because they are right. I therefore hope that, despite your negative response at the committee meeting, there was a time for reflection and a time for these amendments to be taken into account and voted positively. I therefore hope that it will be a more complete document, a document that will respond to needs, and it will also be a document that will show that really EU funds will be distributed transparently, and that they will also have the chance not to give any subtext to the fact that it will be a matter of giving away their own. This is a very important matter for us. I would also refer to the fact that the social side, which was present during the public consultation, has repeatedly pointed out that the bill gives too strong a role to central institutions, weakening the self-government side by taking part in non-governmental organisations. Hence also the proposals for amendments. It is also important to be aware that the Act does not adequately define the functioning of the monitoring committee for the implementation of the programme. I would also point out that in the monitoring committees, however, the social side does not have the kind of representation that it would expect to have in order to influence how these measures are distributed. It should also be stressed that representatives, representatives of civil society actors, including in particular non-governmental organisations, should be included in the monitoring committee as a mandatory basis for monitoring the horizontal principles set out in Article. 9th General Regulation. I am also concerned about the marginalisation of representatives of non-governmental organisations who deal with the subject matter in the provisions of the Act, having experience in the programming phase, as well as the monitoring of public policies that will uphold standards of implementation, including principles, in the context of European funds. It is clear that this is crucial with the use of allocation. These are things that are extremely important, and I hope that you will lean on it. As we have discussed, the amendments that you have also tabled at the committee itself... I have doubts about the writing of the article. 137, which, although with good will, is right in implementation, leaves room for abuse. I stated this at the committee meeting and I repeat it here, in quotes, of course: taping the actions carried out before the entry into force of the law, which this law is supposed to legitimize. Unfortunately, that still raises doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u484	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u485	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I agree with the words of the rapporteur saying that we are dealing with one of the most important laws that we are currently working on in the Sejm. It may not be spectacular, but it concerns the principles of having a huge amount of European funds allocated to Poland for the new budgetary perspective in 2021-2027 from several well-known Polish entrepreneurs, especially Polish local authorities, European instruments such as the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Fund for Fair Transformation and the Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund. On the other hand, I do not agree with the opinion, which I do not think the same Member as the rapporteur of the committee, but, on behalf of the Club of Law and Justice, stated that there is some EU tardiness in the distribution of these funds, and especially the non-member of the category we are talking about, but an additional extra financial instrument, which is a reconstruction and development fund for Poland, because this tardiness unfortunately lies on the Polish side, and in particular, on the Polish side of the government. It would be enough to implement the rulings of the European Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, I would say, the European Union, and the KPO funds could already last year work for the Polish economy, for development, implementation of projects in local governments and for the development of Poland, helping Polish entrepreneurs to overcome the consequences of this difficult pandemic period, slowing down, closing down or restricting their activities. Since we are dealing with a law that is intended to trigger the possibility of using these measures, we are in favour of it, although we are making a number of comments, which have been partly made in the previous debate and which have been formulated in the amendments already tabled or announced. We just want to emphasise that we want to improve transparency, transparency, the allocation of these European funds, first of all. We therefore believe that, on the basis of the long-standing and proven partnership code, it would be appropriate to provide an individual and genuinely reliable contribution to the government's opinion on the allocation of funds from local governments, social partners, businesses or economic sector representatives, including in particular - when we are talking about social partners - of organisations that are associated with the public benefit council. Secondly, we believe that the call which is being made by this social side to extend the period for preparing its own position and consulting, from 14 to 30 days - that is Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 - should be taken into account. We also believe that a point should be added to strengthen regional development funds from the return instruments. Here, unlike Minister Buda, we do not think that there will be any interest in the operation and use of these funds. We believe that these measures can work as well as subsidies for the Polish economy. We are very supportive of the appeals or are in agreement with the appeals made by the organisation, the social partners, especially representatives of the local government sector. It is an appeal that the position of the beneficiaries vis-à-vis the audit authorities should be strengthened by the possibility of appealing to the court and by the possibility of providing separate minutes and arrangements from the audit carried out and of obligatory delivery of the results of that audit to the person concerned. Because too often it turns out that when it comes to audit institutions on behalf of the National Tax Administration, their opinions are not later confirmed by even the opinion of the European audit authorities. Unfortunately, this is a sad practice of Polish management of European funds. And such an amendment to the article. 118 of this bill (the bell) will be reported. Finally, we have some doubt about point 136, which the government added at the last minute to the expenditure under the National Reconstruction Programme, to include the investments implemented since February 2021. It looks nice for statistical reasons, it turns out that the funds are already being used. But it shouldn't be like this. These investments were not subject to a transparent opinion by the social partners. We therefore believe that this solution should be withdrawn. I present on behalf of...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u486	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u487	...the Polish Coalition's amendment club, which your Marshal is passing on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u488	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u489	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This bill should start working as soon as possible, so I won't take up time. It's an implementation bill. There's nothing to discuss. European measures, these ordinary ones, not with KPOs, should start functioning in Poland as soon as possible. I thank the NGOs very much for their active participation in the committee. On behalf of Poland 2050, I make one amendment to the article. 87, agreed with organisations that deal with anti-discrimination activities. Of course, we can lay down the best law in this Chamber and we can have the best law, but how you will spend these means, whether you will issue them transparently, honestly, in accordance with those principles which both honor and, of course, the law dictate, will already be in the future. We can't guarantee that by a hundred percent. As Poland 2050, we will certainly watch closely how European funds are used in Poland from the next perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u490	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the legislative process, the Confederation of Leviathan expressed its opinion with several dozen comments on the draft law. There were 20 of them. The OPZZ also expressed its opinion. It concluded that there was no dialogue with the social partners during the process on the bill. This is a violation of the partnership principle. Minister, I would very much ask you to refer to these two opinions I have quoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that we have such detailed provisions as regards the rules on the distribution and control of European funds available to our country. Unfortunately, we still do not know if any EU funds will be mobilised. Nor do we know to what extent they will be in line with the previously agreed division. We have a coalition in our government and a group of members of the mainstream government who are effectively blocking the mobilisation of our billions of zlotys. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Do you foresee any action in connection with this obstructive action of a part of your government? Can citizens count on consistent government action and fulfilling President Kaczyński's promises to comply with EU standards on the rule of law? Is it expected that our country will not be able to receive the funds due? Such questions for the Prime Minister must have come from here today. I expect a written reply on this, Prime Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know if I'm gonna see them. The answer to these questions, Prime Minister, is asked by Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. I can't see either. Mr Konrad Frysztak. I can't see either. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a draft law that puts billions of euro out of EU funds into specific procedures. We will soon know how to spend EU funds, but we still do not know, Minister, if we will have something to spend. I will remind you that 1.5 years ago, after returning from the summit in Brussels, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki from this place said that this is a moment of historical victory of Poland. He also talked about it and maybe he didn't talk about it, but we knew that he also supported the mechanism: money for the rule of law. During the summit, both the decision to grant Poland PLN 700 billion and the decision on the mechanism I am talking about. The problem is that Poland does not follow the assumptions resulting from this mechanism. We're losing 20 billion zlotys that we could get as an advance last year. Now we can lose 700 billion PLN, which may not go to Poland at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland is the only country, alongside Hungary, to which EU funds may not reach in the future at all. And that in such difficult times Poland has not yet received one euro from EU funds, it is the fault only of the Polish government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u496	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u497	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You like money and rewards because you deserve it. You like jobs in Treasury companies, limousines at the expense of a taxpayer, paid vaseline in government media and flying planes, even if you are the only passengers. That's what you like. But even more than money, you like to oppress those who tell you the truth, have different views than you do, or dare to uphold the law, thereby restricting your sovereignty. Therefore, you prefer to block PLN 770 billion of EU aid for Poles and Poles, in which the pandemic first struck, and now the war and who took 1 million refugees into their homes. Your party business is more important than that money. PiS ship, restore the rule of law and unlock the money from the Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u498	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u499	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So-called. The implementation law will regulate the new seven-year financial perspective of the European Union in our country. It has been thoroughly analysed by many organisations and institutions, resulting in quite a number of comments. The allegations even concern the lack of consistency of the law with several regulations of the European Parliament. Nevertheless, I ask you to answer the question: Have these comments been analysed? How many have been taken into account at the next stage of the project? I wanted to ask you when the project funding will begin. We're already nine months behind schedule. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u500	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u501	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! In line with the objectives of the Fund for Reconstruction, the new Europe, i.e. the new Poland, is to be more environmentally friendly, more digital and more resistant to crises. In relation to these objectives, I have a question for the Minister: Will the monitoring committee, and how will it control whether the investment will contribute to greenhouse gas reduction or at least climate neutral? I am particularly interested in describing the review procedure for spending money from the European Union on investments that clearly destroy the environment. It goes on for example. about the concreteing of rivers or ski lifts in protected areas. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u502	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about ZITs. In this already ending perspective, the ZITs have the status of intermediary. They shall participate in key decisions in the process of managing operational programmes, directing measures, amending timetables, etc. The ZITs have worked well, they are highly assessed not only in the country but also by the European Commission. Unfortunately, now there is an idea to remove the ZITs or take away their status as an intermediary. I'm asking you, why? Why should something that works well, that works well, be limited? Of course, most of these are the pursuits of marshal offices, but I believe that the government should take a clear position on this matter. And I'd like a reply in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u504	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. I've just seen your MP, but good. In that case, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm glad you're here because your presence and proceeding on this bill shows great optimism. I see you three as the front of positive changes, which I hope will cover the rest of the Polish government and eventually the funds will be transferred to Poland, PLN 770 billion. Then this bill will make sense, because without money it is difficult to prepare laws. On the other hand, I have doubts about the provisions of the article. 77, which assumes that where the selection procedure for a project has been carried out in breach of the law and the financial resources which are intended to deal with possible appeals have ended, such an action by the administrative court (the bell) shall be dismissed. And my question: Isn't it worth changing this rule so that someone, the designer who was wronged, who filed the application, and his project was rejected with a violation of the law, but had a chance to finance it? I'm asking you gentlemen to think about it. We have our experience from previous perspectives. This proposal seems to be common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u506	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask if you're ashamed. Aren't you ashamed that you've been telling me all last year that there's going to be resources from the National Reconstruction Plan, resources from a new perspective? So? There isn't. Today, payments are at risk from this perspective, and we have wasted the opportunity to receive advances, these 27 billion PLN. This 27 billion PLN is marked with your name and shame for the government. No euro has yet come from this perspective to Poland. All the projects we carry out are from the perspective of 2014-2020. I have made a request in the parliamentary interpellation that you present a document that you will fulfil all the commitments that (the bell) are today an obstacle to paying out the European funds that Poland is waiting for. For this 27 billion PLN, this country should... Isn't it a shame that you can't tell the truth? It's about saying that you're incompetent and that the Poles have no money. No euro has entered Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! From 2004 to 2021, EUR 210 billion of EU grant was received in Poland. We have contributed to the EU budget EUR 68 billion. We have gained EUR 142 billion, i.e. PLN 630 billion. These are huge money that changed Polish agriculture, infrastructure, economy and caused huge development of Poland. That is what I say to those who say we are adding to the European Union. On the other hand, I wanted to know how much of this money, of these 600 billion PLN, was negated by the European Union as being badly spent when it comes to the Polish government and Polish local governments. What percentage, what percentage of these measures have been challenged? Secondly, I wanted to stress that we have a pretension that these measures do not affect the European Union, because they should actually serve Poland, but I am convinced that they will influence. Poland (The Bell) is a very important country in the Union and they will definitely be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u510	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u511	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for the substantive questions that are being asked here from the Seymary. There was also talk of shame. Shame should be felt by those Members who, in this tribune, here in the Polish Parliament, are happy because they are pleased that we have not received these funds from the European Union. It's a shame. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that such voices here, from this speaker, are falling. [[Voice from the hall: Kowalski.]] Minister! I have a specific question about the National Reconstruction Plan. Do these laws, which are already in force and which we want to implement this law, allow projects in the National Reconstruction Plan to be prepared now so that they can be implemented efficiently afterwards? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u512	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. [[Shame on the government, sir.]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[Shame!]] [[It's a shame the government is so...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! I would like to ask Minister Buda, who was here a representative of the government during the work on the National Plan for Reconstruction. He is also a technical person who negotiates this plan in the European Commission. It is also in the context of Minister Nowak's statement from yesterday that we are already close to the European Commission's decision to grant and launch the National Plan for Reconstruction and the Government's reply that there is no political agreement with the European Commission and that Minister Nowak is not conducting these negotiations, but you are at the technical level and at the political level of the Prime Minister. At what stage are these negotiations and is it the fact that everything depends on the Polish government, i.e. the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, and the restoration of judges? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second question concerning the National Plan for Reconstruction, its formal launch also as regards the various elements, already now. What elements will be activated without funding from the National Reconstruction Plan, from the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u514	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u515	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A very important implementation law in the field of KPO. Money from KPO, money from the Union should have been sent to Poland long ago, should work in Poland. The money is waiting for entrepreneurs, local governments, farmers, all of them. But that money's gone, even though you promised it. Today you are preparing a law which, on the one hand, extends the government's powers to spend these funds and, on the other hand, limits the powers of monitoring bodies. I'm asking you, why? Another question. When will these funds, these 770 billions, go to Poland because your MEPs and your MEPs say that we do not need this money, that Poland will manage without this money? Then what's the truth, Minister? What's the bill for? There's gonna be that money. Will they be gone? Who's telling the truth? Why hasn't this money been in Poland so far? Why are you lying (the bell) that it's the opposition's fault? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u517	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the Fair Transformation Fund, which is designed to help us move away from coal and stop the climate crisis. This is a great opportunity. But are you prepared to use it? Minister, specific questions. How much longer do we have to wait for a timetable for leaving coal and re-training workers and workers in this sector? How do you want to help the inhabitants of the areas most affected by mines and climate change? Thousands of people from Silesia, Lubuskie, Wielkopolska Lake District and other places are already suffering from your inactivity today. You've seen lakes drying up in Wielkopolska, you've seen piers sticking a few feet above the water level. Tourism and agriculture are dying, and you look away from it. The Fair Transformation Fund is an opportunity for energy, landscape and quality of life in Poland and on this planet, but this opportunity can be used on condition that you take your head out of the sand, end the war with the European Commission and cooperate with it. The ball is on the side of the PiS government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get to work, because young people don't agree that you should continue selling their future in the name of a misunderstood political interest or anything else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u518	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u519	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, first of all, for working on this project, because, as has already been indicated here, this work was actually relatively substantive. For a few hours, we leaned hard on these provisions and listened to a lot of comments, including critical ones. We have analysed all the cases that have been reported by the third sector by the opposition parliamentarians. We've talked to each and every one of you. The project that came out of the committee is actually not much different from what we put forward as a government side. But you also have to remember why. Because it was preceded by a very broad consultation at an inter-ministerial stage, but also with all the partners concerned at an earlier stage. I don't want to say this again, but we had a joint government and self-government committee meeting. The government has given a positive opinion on the bill. Here, a few people played the role of self-defense defenders. It communicates that the opinion was positive in this regard. There were a number of decisions or forums, the Social Dialogue Council, which spoke about the bill. We were very flexible, we tried to meet these proposals if they were part of a system that was originally planned. As for the amendments tabled, I would like to point out immediately that we, in the case of some of the comments that were made at the committee's meeting, suggested that they should be the subject of potential amendments, and that the representative, as I have seen, made such amendments to the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, so that they partly meet these expectations, such as the deadline for submitting opinions on the guidelines which are in place and which are enshrined in the bill. I'm moving on to specific questions. There is, of course, one main question. We are preparing a whole nomenclature and a system for implementing European measures, but it is not certain that these measures will emerge. There's a question as to whether they'll show up in what amount. In this long term I must reassure you - they must go to Poland, they will go to Poland. I'm not gonna argue about the deadline because it's not my role, whether it's a week, two months, or three. But they will eventually go to Poland because they have to go to Poland. The regulation is clear: no country that applies for these measures can be deprived of them, so that the whole system of financing, refinancing and reimbursement of these funds will be overturned, because they are of course loans. That is not an option. As for when this happens, you'll probably be the first to know. We will certainly be on this matter, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will communicate very widely. As for this law, let us remember that it shows the instruments for using three different sources of European funds. It is a National Reconstruction Plan, but it is not a basic instrument. There is still a whole cohesion policy, i.e. a new perspective for the coming years, 2021-2027, and a post-brexit reserve. So you can say that there are three elements in this law. As far as cohesion policy is concerned, these European measures we know, there is no doubt that these funds will come to us. They'll hit it on time. I must tell you that today we had representatives of the Commission in our ministry, we hosted them, we talked live and we are very close to concluding an agreement under the Partnership Agreement, while half of the countries have not made this agreement at all. So we're here when it comes to dynamics. As dynamically and as one of the first countries we have submitted the National Reconstruction Plan, we have not submitted partnership agreements, but we have practically all of it negotiated. So there's no delay here from our side. Of course, there was a problem on the Commission's side with the preparation of regulations. I will remind you that they appeared very late, in June, and in July they came into force, i.e. after the start of the perspective, and this delayed the process of preparing the partnership agreement and then the programmes. We were immediately ready, in parallel with this work, and already on 15 December we made an agreement, and we are at the threshold of its final negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the detailed comments, the question has been raised here whether there will be measures, but I have already talked about this. There was a question about the mechanism of rule of law, conditionality. Ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism of conditionality or the rule of law has been settled. We know the formula in which it will apply, and this is the formula that we pointed out from the beginning. It will be limited, reduced to the risks associated with a breach of the European Union's financial interests. And from this point of view, we are not afraid of the mechanism of conditionality (the bell). Referring to the next question: Mr Dyduch asked how much was the subject of proceedings and irregularities in the spending of European funds. I must tell you that this is even the fourth or fifth decimal point of 1%. We are the third, fourth since the beginning of the list, in terms of the number of irregularities, the smallest number of irregularities. Therefore, our system, which we are largely replicating here, is exemplary, exemplary in terms of spending European funds, which is why we wanted to build on it. This is our common achievements, Polish, since Poland's accession to the European Union. As far as environmental protection is concerned, here is the information on how we will take care of environmental protection in these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire programme is subject to a climate marker, almost 400 percent. These measures in 400% must be spent on activities improving air quality, climate, environment, emissions, while all other projects in accordance with the principle of no significant harm must not harm this environment. So no project, if it does not contribute to improvement, can at least do no harm to the environment. Therefore, I have no doubt that these measures will benefit positively from the changes that we all care about. Mrs Jachira... But maybe I'll move on.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u520	Come to the end, Minister, because time is running out. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Good. Mrs Navel pointed to NGOs' comments. Ladies and gentlemen, we have really made a great deal of use of the comments that have emerged at an earlier stage. We used them in the bill. They're already sewn up in the bill. Of course, the pragmatism of life is that not all, but a really big part is in the bill. There is a very serious amendment by Mr Protas, which pointed out at the committee meeting the need for an appeal procedure against the audit mechanism, from the audit procedure. We have already looked at this preliminary, and I said at the committee meeting that there may be a problem with this solution from the point of view of European legislation. Yes, it is. This is because, unfortunately, these audit decisions must be final and absolute and there cannot be an appeal procedure. This is a material that the European Commission later evaluates. And she can send her services, judging this audit material. There can be no doubt about whether it is final or not. Unfortunately, we will not be able to accept this proposal. There was a question here, and a lot of comments, from where the mechanism, which allows for early financing of investments from KPOs before it was launched. Yes, there is a mechanism, we want to leave it very consciously. We are not here for a decision faster or slower by the European Commission, we want to implement these investments, hence pre-financing of the Polish Development Fund in this matter. However, this pre-financing is primarily intended for situations already in the course of the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan, as please bear in mind that reforms are financed under the Reconstruction Fund, not investments. And there may be a big gap between the timeliness of reforms and investment. We can't afford that. If there's a railway investment going on, it's got to go on. The advance payments must comply with the contract concluded with the contractor regardless of the reforms which are, in the meantime, being processed. These are often draft laws, and this pre-financing is therefore necessary here. There was a question about the JTF, which is the means for energy transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, these funds are guaranteed, almost 4 billion, they will be used well. Mr Sterczewski was worried about Wielkopolska. Yes, we also anticipate Wielkopolska's participation in the JTF, even very serious, amounting to several hundred million euros. We already have a plan on how to use these resources. They will certainly contribute to the achievement of the objectives mentioned by the Member. The rest of the questions - I understand that I have limited time - will be answered in writing. Thank you very much and I would like to ask you to proceed on this project from the government level in shape after work in the committee with the amendments presented by the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this project is to establish the basis for the implementation of the Partnership Agreement, including the implementation of cohesion policy programmes in the financial perspective 2021-2027, as well as the National Plan for Reconstruction. In the process of working on the bill, numerous voices appeared, including comments and requests concerning the provisions of the bill. Please share the answers to the following questions arising from the comments submitted. Does the procedated implementation law take into account the demand of cities on the rights of the county, including among others. Opole, on the possibility of raising funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, for the implementation of investments on national roads managed by them? What was the justification for resolving the matter? Does the project also take into account the position of the Polish Voivodship Association regarding the role of BGK as a monopoly when spending so-called. the loan part of the National Reconstruction Plan? The voivodships propose to extend the catalogue of institutions indicated there by the entity supporting the development plan, i.e. the entity to whom, by agreement or agreement with the institution responsible for the implementation of the investment, the implementation of tasks within the framework of the investment, in particular the local government of the voivodship was entrusted. Has this remark been taken into account? What was the justification for resolving the matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u522	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Act - Teacher's Charter (prints No. 2099 and 2106). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Act - Teacher's Charter, print No 2106. The Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 23 March this year. Asks the High Sejm to pass the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u524	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u525	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Teacher raises. There were so many promises to teachers. Recently, Minister Czarnek assured that the government expects PLN 3 billion for this purpose, because the increases are due to them. So? Now you want them to enjoy 4.4%. ? Like I said at the board meeting, an elephant gave birth to a mouse. Apart from the PIS, no one is happy with this, in quotes, raises. Today, at the committee meeting, representatives of all trade unions have made this clear, including the government of Solidarity, which you have promised a fair increase since 2020. You even signed a proper agreement with them. Today, the union rep was not disappointing, criticizing your proposals in harsh terms. You haven't even kept your promise of solidarity. My club supported a citizens' project to put in place system solutions so that the remuneration of teachers is linked to the remuneration in the economy, current economic and economic indicators. The proposed increase was to be 20%. In the budget reserve for this year, you have planned the amount of PLN 3.8 billion, some of which were earmarked for psychological and pedagogical aid, but still in the reserve is over PLN 3 billion. Then why, for God's sake, was only PLN 1671 million planned for a raise? If you decided to allocate the entire reserve for this purpose, the increase from May to December would be around 8,5%. Why don't you give this money to teachers, teachers who are one of the best-educated professional groups and at the same time one of the worst-paid? You give them tasks, they continue to learn, often with their own money, they buy scientific aid out of modest resources, and during the pandemic they often bought computer equipment. Now they're coming up with new jobs. They must take care of the children injured by the war in Ukraine. About 700,000 people currently live in Poland. children from Ukraine, of which 90 thousand are currently enrolled in the school. And we know that there could be a lot more. Last year, inflation was almost 10%. This year's projections indicate that it could be even higher. Year by year, the increase in wages in the economy was almost 12%. Meanwhile, you are proposing embarrassing raises, which unionists call directly - I quote - humiliating their charity, mocking the teachers' environment, jokes on the prima aprilis, cheeks for teachers. The PiS government claims that we have an excellent economic situation, the head of NBP assures us that we have unlimited amounts of cash and that it will not run out. Then why not share with those who earn little and without them it is impossible to function Polish education? How are you going to get young, educated, passionate people to school? And that's exactly what we need, and I'm sure you'd like such teachers to teach your children and grandchildren. They're already missing especially in big cities, but it's hard to be surprised when an intern's teacher makes less than 3,000. zł. If we do not deal with this now, even in the nearest indefinite period, we are in danger of leaving teachers to work in the economy. Already young, educated people are looking for jobs outside of school, and in the case of such subjects as mathematics, physics, chemistry or training, teachers are lacking, especially in large cities. What causes such a situation, apart from, of course, wages? One of the main reasons is to reduce the prestige of the teaching profession, as well as to treat teachers during the strike in 2019 when teachers and the president of the Polish Teachers Association were attacked by prominent politicians PiS and government media. Franklin Delano Roosevelt said the school must be the last expense America wants to save. Take an example of him. I give you this quote for consideration. Sit down again, think about your decision and give the teachers a decent raise. The Civic Coalition has prepared the amendments that I am now making on behalf of the club, and I will remind you that the Polish school, teachers, is the last expense on which you should save. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u526	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left demands decent wages for teachers. We want an increase in education, a link between teachers' salaries and average wages in the economy and funding them from the state budget. It was, it is, and it will be our position. We speak in this matter with one voice with teachers and educational staff, trade unions, and with parents of students who are concerned that if this goes on and nothing changes, there will be no one to teach their children. And precisely because the Left has long been demanding a real increase in teachers' wages, we need to give a brief note of the bill: too late, too little and not as well as necessary. It's too late, because the staff crisis in education has been getting worse in Poland for years. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber report in the school years 2018/2019 and 2020/2021, nearly half of the school heads reported difficulties in finding and hiring teachers. Experienced teachers are quitting their jobs. Young people don't get along at school. Thousands of teachers' vacancies are the landscape in which the school year also began. The year in which thousands of Ukrainian children will be sent to Polish schools, as it turned out, in addition to Polish students. And although teachers employed in schools are two and three to meet another one after remote education during the pandemic challenge, it is important to be clear: the Polish school is not prepared as it could be if the government had not been deaf to the appeals and demands for the necessary increase in teachers' wages. It's not enough, because it's 4.4% higher. You can't call it a raise. This isn't even a salary valorization. It's at most half the value of the project, and it's not for all teachers, because trainee teachers can't even count on it. However, inflation in January this year was over 9%. And according to March forecasts, it may exceed 10 or even 12% in the coming months. It costs everything: from fuel to food, from bills to municipal services. Real raises in order to be able to call them raises can't be less than 10%. Moreover, they should be much higher, because also expectations of teachers grow with the filling up of schools with new students, not only from Poland, but also from Ukraine, and they will grow. Already today, in the Law on Aid for Refugees, the Sejm approved the possibility of increasing the number of teaching hours. And the teachers are ready for the job, but they must be rewarded for it at last. That is why I am making amendments on behalf of the Left guaranteeing a 20% increase in teachers' wages. And I cordially ask Members, Members and Ministers of the Government of Law and Justice, before you resent the fact that this is too much to be done, remember, please, about 40%, 50%, and even 60% increases in the salaries of politicians. I don't recall your regrets that it's too much that you don't need. If the ministers deserved 60% raises, that's certainly 20% You're supposed to be teachers. And finally, it's not the right thing to do. The bill is proceded as parliamentary. He went to the Sejm yesterday, today was the first reading at the committee meeting, now the debate, tomorrow the vote. Where's the public consultation? Where's the dialogue with the teachers, with the educational staff? By deciding over teachers' heads, you will not raise the prestige of this crucial profession, you will not stop the faculty's drain, you will not take care of the students. Therefore, regardless of the future of this project, I appeal to the members of the governing party and to the Minister of Education and to the Government: stop fighting with teachers, start respecting teachers. Polish school, Polish and not only Polish children, as well as the Polish state today need these teachers even more than yesterday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u528	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u529	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law deals with increases for teachers and should in theory not arouse emotions. I'm afraid he's waking up. She also woke up at the committee meeting. In my opinion, there are two reasons why they connect. First of all, it's the height of these increases, and second of all, the style of presentation of these increases with a discernible shoe and pride. I think it was unnecessarily presented as such. When we as opposition asked why these increases were so modest, there were quite confrontational answers that could be summarised in one sentence: the gifted horse does not look into the teeth. I think it's important to look at it, because when it comes to height, the Minister, when he announced the raises, didn't promise a horse, he promised an elephant. There were supposed to be over 3 billion for the raises, not half of it for the amount that we have written down in the bill. Trade unions did not leave a dry thread on this proposal, and it was not only the Polish Teachership Association, but also the Solidarity Association. It must be very painful for you what the union rep said. When I asked about an extremely important and important issue concerning education subsidies, how should local governments proceed, whether this subsidy in the form of more than 1600 million was enough to cover this declared increase, I also did not get a clear answer. The answer was confrontational: what the local authorities think, after all, responsibility is divided. It's like we're trying to piss somebody off. After all, this is what we do together for teachers, for the functioning of these schools, not to mention children. That's the real purpose. As far as the prestige of the profession is concerned, we have also talked a lot about it. It is regrettable to say that when it comes to an intern's teacher, we are still in the same place, we have the same problem. Such a teacher will continue to earn less than 3000 net. As rightly noted in this committee, it is difficult to rent and keep an apartment for this amount in some of the largest cities. If we want to take a step forward, we really should take it more courageously. During the whole committee meeting, the basic question was: Why so modestly? Everywhere we hear that the budget is in excellent condition, that there is a budget surplus, that there is no shortage of money, so why so modestly? This is probably what teachers ask when they analyze these 150- and several hundred-dollar increases, especially by confronting them with what you gave them through the Polish Load and the wrong policy that led to the rise of a spiral that reflects on the wallets. Everyone got their wallet at the beginning of the year, the teacher knows how much he got, and now he knows how much he can get thanks to the raise. The arguments for not being modest, but being more courageous, are very much, above all, the cost of living and the words about the prestige of the teacher for many years, especially the one who directs his steps to school for the first time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u530	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u531	Why in the Sejm we do not discuss the amount of payments e.g. For expeditions or hairdressers? Because PiS is only in charge of the seventh year and has not yet nationalized everything, we do not have a food holding company yet, we do not have state-owned Biedronek, we do not have state barbershops, we do not have a ministry of apology and a ministry of good national hairstyle. All this may be a matter of time, but the fact that we are thinking about salary levels for one or another professional group, for teachers, is stupid and conflictogenic, it ends with claim attitudes, it ends with a switchboard, according to which all teachers earn the same amount, regardless of whether they are good or bad, whether they teach them well, whether their parents want them or not, regardless of results, from nothing. The system stays the same, only once again we add water to this hole bucket. Where is the penny promised by Minister Czarnek? We're gonna continue to struggle with a half-million-dollar army of teachers and be surprised they don't make enough money. We can't afford to keep half a million teachers on a good level, we just have too many teachers, the programs are overloaded, we make millions of people happy with the knowledge they don't need, they don't want to learn, they can't even learn. The system stays, we add water. Where's the idea of an educational bonus, what about the idea of privatizing this sick system? In privatized schools, we could pay with a bonus education and thus differentiate salaries in schools where teachers are such that parents are happy with them, and in schools where parents are not satisfied with the results. A major deregulation, a thorough reduction in the curriculum overloaded unnecessarily. Then we'll need less teachers and then we can afford to pay them more. In this system, you can't just do it properly. Of course, on every occasion, the opposition comes out with a program: more money for everything, it's easy to say, but it doesn't show where to get it, it doesn't show people who need to be taken away to give to teachers. I repeat: in this system it cannot be done well, and you all know it, but you are afraid to expose this huge group of half a million teachers who would simply not like such reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u532	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u533	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Facebook groupNo to the chaos in school, I read comments on the act discussed today: mockery, grab, embarrassment, ignorance, insolence, manipulation and much more - not all of them are suitable to quote in the Seym. Do you find that odd? Incoherently, you are proposing an increase of just over 5% below inflation, a de facto reduction. Even after this increase, the salaries of teachers and teachers will continue to be close to the minimum national level. Let's sum up: inflation in Poland is about 10%. Teacher salaries have been frozen for several years, Polish teachers earn the worst in Europe, they are on the tail of wages in this professional group throughout Europe. After guerrilla they try to provide worthy education to Ukrainian children because they feel the importance of their mission. There is no system support in advance, because the Minister of Education, like Emperor Palpatine in Star Wars, is preparing a counterattack against his lex Czarnek. From the work of a teacher, difficult and hard work, you really want to make an exclusive hobby. Andrzej Duda: These earnings are scandalous because society is making more and more money and the earnings of this professional group have not increased since 1997. What do you think, he's talking about teachers? No, he's talking about MPs and senators. In August last year, we were raised by almost 50%, and today you are offering teachers a slightly more than 4% increase. Please. In 2010, the teacher's salary was around 150%. Minimum wage, 11 years later, is about 105%. This is the picture of the wage degeneration of this professional group, one of the best educated professional groups in Poland. And you're talking about building the prestige of a profession? You're talking about building the ethos of this profession? How do you want to pay attention to the special quality of education under these conditions? You should pray to St. Judy Tadeusz, so that the rest of the perfect teachers don't quit their jobs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u534	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Act amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter. The amendment consists of an increase in teachers' salaries, which is expected by the teaching community and is an expression of appreciation for the role of teachers in Poland by the Government of Law and Justice. We have a very difficult time when teachers had to face remote teaching during the pandemic period, which took a great deal of effort. Today we have an influx of children and young people from Ukraine, which brings further challenges. So an increase in teachers' salaries is necessary. This is not an accident because the government of Law and Justice raised teachers' salaries. Let me remind you in 2017 this was a 1.3% valorization, in 2018 - 5,35%, in 2019 there were a total of two increases - 10% , 2020 - 6% , i.e. between 2018 and 2020, teachers' salaries increased by 28,5%. If we add to that the increase we're debating here, it's going to be over 34%. In addition to these salary increases, educational expenditure increased. The subsidy increased from PLN 40 billion in 2015 to PLN 53,4 billion this year. In order to finance these increases, the increase in subsidies was guaranteed by PLN 1670 million. I will also remind you that we have introduced an allowance for the teacher of the class in the amount of PLN 300, a start-up benefit, 1 000. PLN for trainees' teachers. We have eliminated the card hours, which were really free work imposed on teachers by the Platform and PSL government. Are we happy with these increases? Of course not. We would like the increases to be more significant, which is obvious. I'm a teacher myself, my wife's a teacher, I know these problems. Besides, teachers, despite what the opposition says, have never made a lot of money. I worked at school from 1990 to 2005. The teacher's wages were always too low and we were always on the tail of Europe. We want more, but today's situation is special. We need to be rational about budget spending, because events beyond our eastern borders, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, carry a lot of dangers. I think I don't need to develop this subject here so that most people understand that this is a difficult situation. And now when it comes to those who attack us most, i.e. the Platform politicians who are bidding with the Left, if this percentage would increase their wages if they were in charge, it is worth recalling the statements of the Minister of Education from the Platform Government and Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska's PSL Government in 2014. She said then: I have no doubt that the Teacher's Card should be thrown out. If the PO wins the election, I'll close the Teacher's Card. And then she said: there are no funds in the budget that would allow teacher increases to be granted in 2016. And now please pay attention to what she said next: even if there was any money in the future, it does not make sense to put money in this system. If the Platform were to rule and were to face these challenges that the Law and Justice Government must face, there would be no raises for teachers. Thus, in this context, an increase of 4,4% against this background , i.e. such as in the entire budgetary sphere, appear as maybe not satisfactory, but as an action which aims to make teachers in Poland earn decently. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the years to come, the Law and Justice Government will continue to raise teachers' salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u536	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm glad you made it to the O.R. Parliamentary draft law on amending the law - Teacher's Charter. And here we have a project that deals with providing teachers with an increase from 1 to 31 December, from 1 May - of the minimum basic wage rates. Indeed, this proposal is minimal: it can be said that it is not noticeable. Meanwhile, teachers, receiving monthly salaries, see different things and feel hurt. Minister, I would like to ask you to sit down with Minister Czarnek and think about how teachers who make overtime are expected to have a limited loss. Because it is very often the case that most of the overtime worked out and the resources they deserve are paid in the form of tax. And it would be good to finally solve this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u538	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u539	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that the Minister has finally reached this room in the middle of this debate. I would like to say that the way the PIS Members, two ladies in this Chamber, are interested in this is some embarrassment towards teachers, but this is to appreciate the importance and role of teachers in the Polish school. It is indeed today the fact of your great courage that so many of you have come. And teachers need to know how much you appreciate them. In Poland inflation is 10% , you give 4.4% raises. The teachers will be very pleased about this. The statement of reasons for this project speaks of respect for the profession of teacher. After all, this is a grim joke, given that the basic amount for teachers after 8 years of study is 400 PLN higher than for a physical worker. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question to the Minister of Education: When will the Minister stop promoting the virtues of the women and take seriously the remuneration of the people on whom the future of our country depends? I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u540	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u541	I ask you, how proud the PiS is of this increase, is the fact that there are three Members of the PiS, the Deputy Minister, the Minister does not exist, and the fact that they refer mainly to what happened in the days of their predecessors. You've been in charge for seven years. It's about time we took responsibility for our governments. But if we're like our predecessors, then the raises were 50% in total. So you'd have to raise them by 12% in the last year. To catch up with that result. But back to that raise. You talk a lot about the prestige of a teacher's profession, let's say boldly: this prestige of a teacher's profession you judge exactly at less than half of inflation. This means that you are assuming that this prestige is getting lower, because wages at galloping inflation are getting lower in relation to earnings in other areas as well as in relation to prices. Why did you have to raise your salary? For example, so that an intern's teacher doesn't earn below the lowest income in the country. How do you (the bell) encourage anyone to become a teacher if the lowest national is offered to him first? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u542	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u543	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As PiS raises the prestige of a teacher's profession, she summarized in the committee's meeting the representative of Solidarity, who said: in the 7th year of your government, an intern teacher earns less than a janitor in a 20-year-old school and after your salary increase will also earn less than a janitor with a 20-year internship. That's your approach to the teaching profession. I just want to say that this is going to be a minimum wage. Throughout 2021, teachers did not receive a raise. On 4 March, the Minister of Education promised that PLN 3 billion would be spent on raising teachers' salaries. And how much does he spend? $1,600 million! What did you do with the money that was supposed to be spent on teachers' wages? You pay the ministers' salaries? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u544	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS state wipes your mouth very often with a statement, and so it was today at the committee meeting that you raise the prestige of the teaching profession. As part of this prestige, you offer teachers an increase of 4,4% in 2022. but since May. This means less than 3% increase in teachers' salaries throughout the year. At 10% or even higher inflation, which is projected in 2022, this means a real fall in teachers' salaries throughout 2022. And this is your prestige boost? A little over PLN 100 raise for an intern teacher who comes to work at school after college and often receives a minimum salary for work? With such an approach, with such disrespect for human work, with such disrespect for the work of a teacher in the Polish (Dawn) school, nothing will change for the better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u547	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is today in the High House that we should have a debate on the profession of teacher. We should have a debate on the proper and proper remuneration of teachers. Those who care about the future generation, about the future of Poland. But unfortunately, it's not. Today, we're not debating how to change a system that could lead to a teacher earning as much as the average... [[Voice from the room: Lowest.]] ...remuneration based on the economic situation of the country. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening today. Yesterday I spoke to one of the teachers whose daughter graduated a few months ago, who encouraged her daughter to work at school. And she said, "Mom, I'm not going to school because I just can't afford it." I want to start a family, I want to buy an apartment in the future, but the salary that teachers are offered today is so embarrassingly low that I just can't afford it. [[I couldn't afford it either, sir.]] [[That's funny.]] We have a huge problem with teachers leaving the profession and we have a huge problem with those who should become teachers today, because simply the financial situation is very difficult, which is why this needs to be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u548	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for increases for teachers in no way refers to the Minister of Education and Science's promise to raise salaries by more than 1 000. zł. The bill's 4.4% increase in wages is nothing more than a cosmetic runway designed only to calm moods. Such a proposal only offends teachers. How can we, given the current rate of inflation, talk about increases in this situation? Mr. Speaker! Stop producing yourself. Aren't you ashamed to make such proposals? When are you gonna start listening to the teachers' demands? [[Voice from the room: We're listening.]] Why wasn't there a public consultation with the teachers? In fact, where is Minister Czarnek... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[There's the minister, there's the minister.]] ...who should be sitting here? In the courtroom, two Members. [[No, three.]] Oh, three, I was wrong. [[Voice from the room: Four.]] You're so interested in the teacher's problem. Is that how you treat teachers? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You guys aren't crazy either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u550	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Parliamentary bill on such an important matter is inadmissible. It has never been so that, with the help of a parliamentary bill, it is possible to have reserves of the state budget. I ask: Why doesn't the government want to take an official stand on teacher raises? Or because he's ashamed of the level of these raises because they're not any raises? Does he feel bad that he cheated on the teachers because there were other amounts? Or is it to avoid a public consultation? Or am I wrong? Maybe we're wrong, ladies and gentlemen, by criticizing? Perhaps at the next meeting of the Sejm, the government will propose a draft law and quick legislation increasing the remuneration for teachers in the corresponding percentage. Why not if the government isn't here? This may happen (the bell), which I think we wish the teachers. [[We'd like that.]] It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, to treat the profession of teacher in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u552	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u553	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For months, the government has been ignoring the demands of teachers and teachers who expect a decent salary. This bill is a confession to failure. Proposed increases of 4,4% In itself, he's a mean joke. The inflation rate is already over 8,5%. Which means that even after a raise, teachers and teachers will earn less than a year ago. Is that your respect for these people? Do you think it's the raises? You've caused a massive crisis in education. There's a shortage of teachers and teachers because who would want to work at school on these salaries? [[What are you talking about?]] In almost all schools, these gaps are patched with overtime, but this does not solve problems. [[Teachers want overtime, sir.]] In education, stability is needed. How are we supposed to deal with the adoption of hundreds of thousands of children from Ukraine? End the chaos at school. Start respecting teachers and teachers, let them do their job properly, and if you can't do it, then with Mr. Minister (Bell) Czarnek at the head, who is absent, resign. Thank you. [[Stop the hypocrisy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u554	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, only knowledge half. [[Multi-knowledge, multi-knowledge in the original.]] The same is true of your idea of pseudo-raise. The worst part is when you say raises, and really you just give up pathetic leftovers from your table. In fact, this small increase is trying to cover 1/3 of the costs of inflation, when you want to spend 35 billion on the development of a meadow in Poland. So you want to spend more than 30 times more on this than on raising the prestige of a Polish teacher. 75% Teachers believe that sooner or later they will have to give up their profession because of low wages. These teachers today are lacking in Polish schools (the bell) due to the low wages and lack of prestige of the teacher, also because of this, and this is in fact also a question of the future of our education and our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u556	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This government-accepted proposal is a de facto conscious reduction in the purchasing value of teachers' wages by 7% , taking into account the years 2021 and 2022. The valorisation of pensions last year was 4.24% This year it is 7% That's 11.4% of the total. There was no wage regulation for teachers last year. If from 11,4% We're going to subtract 4.4%, it's going to result in a conscious 7% reduction in the teacher's purchasing value. , taking into account only the rate of pensions and pensions. The second question concerns securing resources for local authorities under this regulation. Are the subsidies secured by the regulatory measures envisaged by the parliamentary project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u558	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u559	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of having a serious debate on serious increases for teachers, we were insulted by the whole committee meeting, and now the PiS rapporteur at the end of his speech also had objections to the opposition. Do you think that's gonna make the teachers get bigger raises? [[And the critiques give the Platform more?]] Why are you taking yourself seriously? I understand you're ashamed because you're not here tonight. There is also no Minister of Education who has promised that PLN 3 billion will be allocated to raises for teachers. [[There's the minister.]] [[There's the minister.]] I'm talking about Minister Black. [[Member, there are committees.]] I have a question for Minister Piontkowski, who we could not connect with during the committee meeting. Minister, what are you planning to do with the rest of this educational grant reserve? What are you planning on doing with it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u560	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Piontkowski, who in fact came to the meeting of the committee, and his author was a representative of the Union for Solidarity, concerning the agreement that you have concluded with the trade unions. It was to be completed by 2020. What's next with the deal? [[But that question has already been asked.]] And a small remark, when he speaks, takes the floor and speaks about a given bill a trade union representative, to whom, but to whom, the Deputy Minister, the former Minister of Education, should not be able to laugh ostensibly at what he says. Especially since the same arguments were later presented by the Solidarity Representative and then you did not laugh anymore. That's a small remark. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u562	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u563	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's hard to be amazed when you hear the hypocrisy that the opposition is doing today. 3.8% proposed to teachers by the Platform and PSL was not enough. 4.4% isn't enough. It's a joke. [[50% in 8 years.]] Four years of frozen wages during the Platform, the PSL was also okay. Refresh your memory? Please: There is no money for raises, because adding money to the system makes no sense and will do nothing - the Minister of Education of the Civic Platform. [[Lying has short legs.]] [[Then you'll be free to walk.]] You also offered to close the Teacher's Charter, but today you're getting water in your mouth. You guys thought it was okay. This is how the Platform and PSL raised the prestige of the teaching profession. Today you're pretending to care about teachers. Today you suddenly remember that this is a very highly educated professional group. But you showed your concern when you were in charge. Then your motto was, there's no money and there won't be. We want teachers to make more money. [[You don't have to want to do it. You have to do it.]] [[And we're doing it.]] We systematically raise the prestige of this profession. We're doing this step by step. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We'll get to know you by your actions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u564	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the presented draft law on the amendment of the Act, the Teacher's Charter refers to average wages, not essential salaries, and this is a significant difference, because in the average amount there are about 14 allowances, e.g. retirement pension, which every teacher does not get every year, e.g. an intern's teacher. So how, ministers, do you want to increase the salaries of teachers so that those allowances that do not include all teachers are somehow compensated for. The project also deals with providing teachers with an increase from 1 May 2022 until the end of December 2022, so I also have a question about what will happen before this period and what will happen after this period in terms of equalisation. Since this is the minimum wage rate, but teachers do not work at the minimum wage rate, they only give (the bell) their best, so I think this salary should be adequate for their work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u566	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For you would teach other people's children - it speaks for itself. The profession of teacher is really very heavy and we have a deficit in the market. Why? Because he's unattractive. The educational problems that parents bring to school do not make work easier, and this is a low-paying profession. It is the teachers who are responsible for the level of teaching, the formation of our children, and thus their future. It is up to them that the level of our specialists, scientists and later our companies, which are the engine of the economy, depends on them. They should be well rewarded, it should be a good investment in our future. 5% It's alms and it's embarrassing, especially since basic energy and gas cost almost 100%. What's the pay? That's the job. Inflation 10% And soon this profession may disappear at all. And then what? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u568	Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u569	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here we hear a constant voice from the opposition: too low a raise in relation to inflation, that is far too little. Let me put it this way: this is a small increase, actually, I talked about it in the club talk, there should be more, but we have such times that we can't offer any more. On the other hand, you are completely forgetting what inflation was like for your governments. Let me remind you: in 2008 - 4.2%. In 2009 - 3.5% , in 2010 - 2.6%. [[Stop reminding me.]] [[50% in total.]] In 2011 - 4.3%, in 2012 - 3.7% inflation. [[Seven years.]] And now, my dears, it turns out that this 2012 raise 3,8, which is 0.1. Teachers feel that kind of a raise? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course they didn't. The highest increase was during the rule of law and justice - 10% With inflation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Time's up.]] [[50% in total.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u570	Mr... Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has proposed a 4.4% raise for teachers since 1 May this year. An increase of this height is not a valorization even the inflation rate, which this year, according to the President of the NBP, may exceed 10%. Average wage from 2015 increased by 40%... [[No, no. 44.]] ...and at the same time, teachers' salaries increased by 28,5%. Why such a discrepancy? This shows that teachers' salaries are not a priority for the current government. [[Bullshit.]] In the explanatory memorandum of the law, the designers wrote that they wanted to restore the dignity of the teaching profession. How? Giving a few dozen zlotys a month at such crazy inflation? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u572	We have concluded this with Members' speeches. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This parliamentary bill gives the chance to raise teachers' salaries even in a minimal way. You are talking about a story, while criticizing the fact that the Members of the Law and Justice are referring to history. Speaking of history, you're talking about the events of the last few months... [[No, March 4th.]] ...when proposals were made by the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the possibility of raising teachers' salaries by thirty-six percent, especially teachers starting jobs, because we agree - and, I think, there is no dispute - that especially teachers starting a job should earn significantly more. Soon we will try to present a draft law which will change the conditions for the professional promotion of teachers on the one hand and simplify and provide for additional increases in the salaries of teachers starting work on the other. As for this element, there is probably no dispute, we would like everyone to earn more, including teachers. On the other hand, it is difficult to disagree with what Mr Dolata said, that it is impossible to abstract one profession, one professional group, from the general situation and from what level of wage increases. You try to escape from what has been going on for eight years of your governments, but it is the level of the teachers' salaries that have remained after you that has led, among other things. to the protests of teachers and to strikes. [[Intern, 1.26.]] [[Member, allow me.]] It was one of the elements that caused the teachers' rebellion. Today, too, I believe that a much greater increase in wages should be achieved, and these were the original proposals, but there was no agreement of the social side to seriously discuss the broader perspective, not just automatic wage increases. This is not really a political agreement. At the moment, it is said that if there is to be a very serious increase in wages, this must also involve changes in professional pragmatism. This was not the case, therefore, in the present war situation, because this is the way we need to be clear about it, we are not able with such expenses as will be associated with the neutralization of war events in Ukraine, to give suddenly a dozen percent increase. We must certainly go back to the subject, and as you have said, as Members of the Law and Justice have said, we will certainly go back to the subject. As we believe, you will also support proposals that aim to increase wages. That is why today there is no 30 percent increase, it is only a few percent, because there was no agreement for a broad discussion on changes in the teaching profession. As I understand it, this bill provides that the money from reserve 29. - more than PLN 1.5 billion - will be transferred to education grants, and this will be the means to cover expenditure on the remuneration of subsidised teachers, i.e. those covered by the subsidy. What was the reserve for? Part of this reserve has already been spent, among others. PLN 180 million for additional psychology classes in schools. They can today, for example. be used even in this war situation. Such classes may need Polish children, and even more children and young people from Ukraine. Part of this appropriation is intended to be used to increase the employment standards of psychologists and educators. [[But it was out of the question.]] [[Mrs...]] A draft law is being prepared to regulate this issue. [[That was out of 3 billion.]] Today, in the state budget, we must look for additional resources to secure aid for refugees, because so far the European Union is in no hurry to spend any money from the European budget, and from somewhere this money needs to be taken. I hope you understand that money doesn't grow on trees, but you just have to reach to the budget and to the different positions. After all, the budget was adopted at a time when we didn't know there was going to be a war. Today, the world looks completely different and the budgetary realities need to be adapted to this. Some of you referred to the situation at the committee meeting. A brief explanation is needed here. For technical reasons, no voice connection was possible. One Member simply once again tries to fake reality and violates reality. So, Commissioner, I would like to address you with a little honesty. I haven't said a word, and you're accusing me of laughing at what happened at the committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yes, because you laughed.]] [[This is an outrage.]] You don't even know what I was talking about. [[You laughed.]] But is it forbidden to smile? [[But you laughed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u574	Madam, please don't disturb me. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: As I understand it, the Member never smiles at a committee meeting or in a parliament hall. [[No, you can smile, but you can't laugh.]] Perhaps you have no reason to smile. On the other hand, ordinary people, including ministers, sometimes have the right to smile. [[After that, I'm sure.]] You, on the other hand, have no right to lie and fake reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice, rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, the Minister has very calmly put forward arguments that prove that the Government of Law and Justice... Specifically, the parliamentary project of raising teachers in this way was presented: you ironised the state in terms of seeing it in this situation, during the war, during the post-COVID period. I just want to say that one of the Members presented the word that is in social forums. I'm not gonna use the words that came out here. I think that, ladies and gentlemen, who respect teachers so much, is not the language of a true teacher. [[Yes, sir.]] For me, teachers are professionals whose name is pronounced by a large number of people, and the state from this speaker presents them as a professional group which cannot express itself culturally. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. I don't know, sometimes I say that I feel like we work on two different prints with many, many billing projects. You think it's the government of law and justice that's guilty of being a coronavirus, that it's the government of law and justice that doesn't appreciate that there's inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, why, even at such a time, in such a situation - Poland, as I have been living for so many years, has not been in such a situation - are you beginning to lie about reality? And just one more thing. When are you going to listen to the teachers? - it sounds like it's coming out of that podium. Well, you should have asked that question when the minister from your government, when the teachers asked for a raise, said: I am not the teacher minister, I am the student minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u576	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It was Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska who said that because you are making such a strange face.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 23 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join this list? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the inhabitants of Poland propaganda materials are sent to praise the benefits to come from the so-called. It's a polish deal. Therefore, once again I publicly ask: Who is the principal of the propaganda action on the Polish Load? What entity, how many gold and how much money did he pay for this action? How many zlotys was the total cost of printing and colportage leaflets distributed throughout the country? How many leaflets were directed to distribution in our Śląskie voivodship and in other voivodships? What company received the order of printing the above mentioned. propaganda leaflets, and how was this company selected? What company was commissioned to sell these leaflets? I think someday the Poles and Poles will find out about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u578	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Current provisions of the Act - Educational law exclude the possibility of extending the appointment of a director. As a general rule, after the Director's term of office, a competition is mandatory. However, exceptions to this principle are not alien to the widely understood educational law. During the pandemic period, too, the employer allowed this possibility. In view of the emergence in Polish schools and kindergartens of a large number of children and pupils - refugees from Ukraine, victims of the war caused by Russia, and thus the need to meet the new organisational tasks of the Ministry of Education and Science will consider the restoration of temporary solutions in force during the pandemic which, until 2 September 2021, allowed for the appointment of a school director without a competition also in cases other than those mentioned in the Act - Educational Law, i.e. only if no candidate is submitted to the competition or no candidate has been selected as a result of the competition? Introducing the possibility of extending the appointment of the head of the school or kindergarten to directors on 31 August this year. the term of office ends, allowing them and the lead authorities to focus on current organisational challenges. I have a question for the Minister of Education: Do you provide for the possibility of extending the appointment of the head of the institution to preschool and school directors on 31 August this year? Is your term of office over? I kindly ask the Minister to analyze this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u580	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rulers! In the face of the war in Ukraine, there should be cooperation, unity between us. This is no time for political row. The most important thing is the good and security of the general public. But you do not listen to our comments, the opposition's comments, or our opinion. You're not doing anything to get your trust back. Every session of the Sejm is proof of that. In the bill, you are extremely important and urgent in your business, hoping that under the pressure of time you will be able to vote them out. It goes on for example. with impunity+. Now you're trying to manipulate the constitution. People come to me and ask me, " What happens now? What's next with the scandals? You gonna settle the government? After all, PiS took away the rights of women, fought against independent media, wanted to introduce lex Czarnek, on the pretext of COVID-19 brought out public money for his use, built a road wall to protect from refugees, and finally introduced Polish Load, which harms a very large part of Poles, including single mothers. There was Pegasus, which means eavesdropping on citizens. We are losing huge money from the EU because the government does not want to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber and bring independent judges back to work. It doesn't matter if we break the law because we're taking refugees. You say let Tusk do it in the EU. You can't understand that breaking the law isn't something you can do. Probably the government knew about Putin's planned aggression against Ukraine and didn't react. You deny relationships with proputinist parties, with whom the Prime Minister Morawiecki met at the end of January. You would also like to remove the insults towards the EU from our memory. I'm talking about Mr. Suski, Morawiecki, Duda or Mrs. Pawłowicz. Now there is the EU flag. Mr. Kaczyński! You spoke about democracy in 2015. Today it is known that your governments have little to do with democracy. In Poland Kaczyński and his PiS decide. [[Voice from the room: What do you say?]] You're acting solely for your own interests. However, society cannot be fooled. The pro-Union narrative and the pathetic conferences of the president, the Prime Minister, the Dworczyk Minister will not help. Real help to Ukrainian refugees flows primarily from the hearts of Poles. They use their private money, their money from the local governments that you took from the funds, and their money from the organizations and associations that you were just trying to get out of school. We remember who actually gave us inflation. We remember who shut down the economy during the COVID-19 pandemic. It was supposed to protect us from infection, but as experience shows, it didn't protect us. You don't deal with problems. You don't see any problems. You can't bribe everyone. Once Winston Churchill said, "If you're going through hell, don't stop." Keep walking. Everything ends someday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u582	Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Sejm, we adopted the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. How important it is to help the youngest refugees - children who usually come to us in incomplete families. Some of them come with only one parent, another family member, or just a friend. Some of them come to us from the Ukrainian children's homes, so without any loved ones. That is why it is so important that they have proper legal and factual care. The project includes a temporary guardian solution, a solution that gives children a chance to be represented, but also a person who will take care of them. Today we propose an absolute minimum. We have to provide these children. also rehabilitation aid. Legal, organisational and psychological support must be strengthened. This will not be guaranteed in the project. District aid centres are already suffering from underinvestment and staff shortages. Today we must fight for the widest possible protective umbrella for children from Ukraine. Today's the day also time for urgent work on the reform of Polish social policy in the area of care, foster care and all social services provided to children in Poland. May this time of humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, this time of great challenge for Polish social, health policy, especially on mental health, be a red light alerting about the need for change. In the face of the crisis, current conflicts and disputes have lost importance. Let's use this time to work together. Let's develop new standards and finance them. I also call for the social side to be taken seriously at last. Let's invite social organizations who know how to help and know where the system is inefficient. Let us also listen to mental health counselors, directors and psychiatric hospitals. Last week I was in a regional psychiatric hospital in Olsztyn. I know what kind of problems this hospital and other facilities are facing. Time for systemic change, funding and training of specialists. Today the situation is difficult, every day it will be harder, and then there is only disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u584	Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. I thought there wasn't gonna be anybody. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are different letters coming into our parliamentary offices. One of them I wanted to read today: Lone parents and Polish Load. Good morning, we've all been looking towards Ukraine and the Ukrainians in recent weeks. We are engaged in active aid and collections. We single mothers are heartfelt with Ukrainian mothers. We support fundraisers, volunteer for mothers and their children fleeing the drama of war. There's nothing worse than war and hurting children. In the compassion we show, however, we do not create double standards, as the Polish government does. Many Poles, single mothers deprived by Poland of a large part of their income, still have tears in their eyes. Why hasn't the government changed the records in the Polish Lade so much hurting single mothers? We have been deprived of care by the state in Poland, which they generously receive marriages and full families. Alone, I've been raising my daughter alone for 15 years. My husband and father left us when she was a year old. The child's father wasn't interested or interested in his daughter. My daughter's father's maintenance debt is $40,000. zł. He's in quotes for unemployed, without the right to benefits. Law and justice don't touch him. Abandoned by my husband in 2009, when I came to me as such, I came together to solve my problems. I worked hard to get a full-time job. I decided that I would work for two at the expense of my life so that my little baby would be taken care of while I was working so that she could have access to private medical care. A single parent didn't have a chance to get to a state clinic where you personally had to wait in the middle of the night a few hours for a number. The idea was for my child to be able to live in an apartment where he has his own room so that he could pursue his passions so that he could go on vacation and go to the movies. Over the years, I have managed the household budget responsibly so that the expenditure is adjusted to the resources available. However, I was certain of the resources I had and with which I would close the financial year. I live and work in Warsaw, far from my immediate family. The cost of living here is very high. Suddenly, from day to day, I lost one and a half of my salary with a message to the Polish Government. I'm too rich because I work for two. Which is why I'm asking when I'm gonna get what I had before. Why did I get (the bell) from the Polish Load double in my head? That's what Mrs. Joanna says from Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u586	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the face of the war in Ukraine, the Polish Parliament passed a law on defence of the Homeland, which establishes among others. greater funding and reinforcement of the Polish army. In 2016, the Government of Law and Justice waived contracts for the purchase of H225M Caracal combat helicopters for the Polish Army. One of the reasons for this decision, as was said then, was the willingness to choose another model, which would be produced in Poland, as provided by Minister Antoni Macierewicz in Świdnik at a meeting with the crew. Prime Minister Beata Szydło also at a meeting with the crew in Świdnik, with trade unions said: The duty of the Polish state is to defend the interests of the Polish economy. Today we are betting that equipment for the Polish army should be produced in Poland. Believe me, the army's purchases will be made very quickly. That's what the Prime Minister said. Since then, six years have passed since those declarations. Absolutely nothing happened in this regard. Battle helicopters from PZL-Świdnik as it wasn't, there isn't. There are orders from PZL-Świdnik for the American army, but not for the Polish army. Today, it is hard not to notice how important multi-purpose combat helicopters play a role in the armed conflict. The situation in Ukraine clearly shows that Poland cannot afford to continue passively on this issue. Especially since in 2015, during the election campaign of Law and Justice, employees of PZL-Świdnik were provided with fast orders for task and combat helicopters for the Polish Army. I declare that the entire community, employees, trade unionists expect and demand the execution of orders, the fulfilment of promises, the exploitation of production and technical facilities in Świdnik, and thus the maintenance of jobs, technologies, licenses that will lose their validity without orders. In the face of the war in Ukraine, in the face of the war behind our eastern border, in the face of a huge threat to the security of Poles and Poles, I demand and ask you to fulfill your promises and order in PZL-Świdnik. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u588	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister for Sports and Tourism for significantly increasing the funding for the Government's Club programme in 2022 to organisations providing training for children and young people, including school sports clubs. For many years in the media, a lot of attention has been paid to professional sports, such as the success of athletes. But it is in these small clubs, often in rural areas, that the greatest talents are born, later sports stars. If you want to succeed in international arenas, you have to start training from an early age, preferably from the first classes of primary schools. In recent years, sport infrastructure has also developed in the vicinity of educational institutions. But it is no secret that there is often a lack of money for organizing sports and recreational activities at the appropriate level. This is why such an important and needed governmental programme of the Club, which allows for free activities for children and young people in various disciplines. Thanks to it, sports have become widespread from an early age. The amount of money allocated to the Club programme in 2022 is record-breaking, amounting to more than 66 million PLN. This is an increase in effort compared to 2016, in which this programme was launched, by 180%. How much interest the Club programme is, I know on the example of my Tarnów constituency. The number of applications for additional sports and recreational activities is constantly increasing and more young people are taking part, including those whose parents could not afford to pay their children for training to pursue sports passions. The Ministry of Sport is right to justify an increase in funding for the Club's programme by the fact that the way to the summit begins with small sports communities. Yes, this programme is an appropriate response to the real needs of thousands of local sports environments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u590	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice. Thank you. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u591	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 19 March this year. The ceremonial inauguration of the year Ignacy Łukasiewicz took place in Gawłuszowice in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. It was the day of the 200th anniversary of the baptism of the holy inventor of the oil lamp and the creator of the oil industry. The program of the ceremony consisted of the submission of a tie under the plaque dedicated to Ignace Łukasiewicz in Zaduszniki, the place of his birth, the Mass of St. in the church of St. St. Wojciech in Gawłuszowice led by his excellency bishop of the Sandomierz diocese of Krzysztof Nitkiewicz and the unveiling of the commemorative plaque in the mentioned church next to the christening church at which the later inventor was baptized. During this ceremony I had the honour to represent the Marshal of the Polish Sejm Mrs.Elżbieta Witek, who sent a beautiful and entertaining letter to her organizers and participants. The celebrations of the year Ignacy Łukasiewicz in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where he was born, in a special way fit into national celebrations. On 29 October 2021, at the 40th session of the 9th term of office of the Polish Sejm, he adopted a resolution on the establishment of Ignacy Łukasiewicz as patron of 2022. As indicated in the resolution, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, especially due to the great and extraordinary merits of Ignacy Łukasiewicz for the industry and economy of Poland, as well as his commitment to fighting for independence of Poland and taking care of employees, establishes the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. It is worth mentioning that this year is also the 140th anniversary of his death. From this point I would like to thank Marshal Elizabeth Witek very warmly for having responded to the invitation of the organisers of the year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The commemorative letter was very pleased by the organizers and participants of the solemn inauguration which took place last Saturday in Gawluszowice. For us, inhabitants of Podkarpacie, it means that the Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland appreciated the importance of this event, and thus the role played by Ignacy Łukasiewicz in the history of Poland and the world. After all, he was not only an outstanding scientist and inventor, but also a dedicated man to the idea of independence of Poland and helping other people. Taking this opportunity, I would also like to thank Marshal Władysław Ortył and the employees of the Marshal's Office of Podkarpackie Voivodeship for organising the celebrations of the year Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. Thank you very much for your commitment and attention to proper commemoration of this outstanding representative of the Podkarpackie land. It's very important that the memory of him survives for generations to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u592	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I will make a statement about the visit of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Jarosław Kaczyński in Kiev. Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša gave their visit to Kiev a powerful impetus to strengthen the dynamics of Western countries for Ukraine. It was also a wonderful gesture of solidarity and courage. The Czech Prime Minister stated that a visit to Kiev would not have been possible without Mateusz Morawiecki and that Poland deserves the support of the Czech side. The world media spoke flatteringly about the visit, almost all except for these mainstream, nationwide ones. I am extremely ashamed that some editors have called a visit clown. I am ashamed of you because I do not know if you know that this clown was organized in agreement with the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and President of the European Council Charles Michel. Will you also call them clowns or fools? The patricophobia is taking a huge toll on us at a time when all nations are outnumbered in solidarity, despite their differences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u594	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u595	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today I would like to talk about the difficult situation in Polish agriculture, which is taking place and which forces us to take some of the measures we should take. The war in Ukraine has caused, ladies and gentlemen, great fluctuations in the world's grain markets. Production in Russia and Ukraine is about 25% world wheat and barley production. Will this affect Polish agriculture directly? Well, as far as production is concerned, no. But if we look at the farm, yes. What will happen, ladies and gentlemen? More wealthy countries will look for cereals, they will first look for these cereals in Poland. What's that gonna do? This will result in a huge increase in costs. That is why today I call on our agricultural department to take action to protect livestock farmers, pigs and poultry from significant increases in feed prices, which in turn translates directly into ordinary Kowalski. Is he gonna be able to buy a chicken in a few months for 20 zlotys for 1 kg or a half-kilogram loaf of bread for over 10 zlotys? This is a question that probably concerns many Poles today. This is one situation. We may soon realize that. We need a reaction today. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is what happened on the fertilizer market. A few months ago, we couldn't figure out that these fertilizers were 300% expensive. 2800 PLN for 1 t ammonium nitrate. What's the price today? PLN 6100. About 500% The price of the saltpeter was paid in a matter of months. And what do farmers do? Farmers who are supposed to sow every hectare of land today either use half a dose or do not use at all. What will that lead to? To lower yields, to lower quality. You think somebody's gonna pay them more? If he doesn't pay them more, they'll make less money. And if they make less money, they're about to knock on the door for those who gave them loans for machines, for the ground, for fertilizers. Those who bid on their farms will follow them. Is that really what this is about? That's another thing. Next thing you know, it's a green order. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Union is Janusz Wojciechowski. He's the one who's offering us the green order. It's worth throwing in the trash. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u596	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 6 March 1942, in Zgierz, which was then part of the so-called. The Land of Warty, the Gestapo searched the apartment of Józef Mierzyński. This former armadillo worked in the underground Polish armed force. While searching his apartment, Mierzyński shot two Gestapo men and escaped from captivity. It triggered a huge terror in the Nazi occupation. Hundreds of people were arrested. Violent, bloody interrogations have begun. But it wasn't over. The German invader, namely the Reich's Central Security Office, ordered the shooting of 100 Poles - 50 for every Gestapo man killed. 100, mostly patriots associated with the Polish conspiracy - 96 men and 4 women were chosen from the arrested. They were transported to the Barn Square in Zgierz on Friday morning, March 20, 1942. There were about 6,000 in the square. Poles from Zgierz and surrounding towns were forced to the scene of an incident, which was disgraced by the German army, which was to intimidate the civilian population and underground fighting the Nazi invader. The prisoners were linked, 100 people were selected from the crowd, which were to be additionally shot in the event of any resistance during execution of Polish patriots. The 30-person firing squad set up in the Hungarian square. Poles after 15 were carried out in front of the mauser barrels. 100 Poles were killed - men and women, prisoners of German invaders, innocent people. Everyone was buried in the Lucumier Forest, a few miles from the crime scene. It was the largest execution of civilians in the Warty Country. The Barn Square after the war was renamed Stu Lost Square. To this day, it's a place that it's hard to walk past just like that. The scale of the murder continues to shock today. It seemed that the crimes of the genocide of the Second World War were in the memory of the peoples of Europe, that this is a science that will make no more fascism, no more war. Today, when Putin Russia repeats Nazi crimes by murdering the people of Ukraine, we need to remind the more loudly of the tragedies that occurred in Poland during World War II. We remember who the criminal was. We also remember and remember the victims - the heroes of our nation. Hello to their memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u598	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u599	March events or March 1968 events. The genesis of what happened almost 54 years ago is difficult to grasp. Historians dealing with Polish history after 1945 are of the opinion that this multifaceted and difficult to define social crisis began in 1967 and expired only in the summer of 1968, a year later. Although we cannot overlook the main thread of this crisis, which was the disappointment of a slow society, but the extremely effective shrinking of the area of civil liberties and, of course, the elements of democracy following important events and changes in 1956. However, the most important and strongest accent of March events were student speeches in many academic cities. The spark that sparked these protests was the Deymkovsky Acts case. This performance in the bravado directed by Kazimierz Dejmek with the creation of Gustaf Holoubek as Gustav, exhibited at the National Theatre was considered by the management of the PZPR to be religious, anti-Russian and anti-Soviet. As dangerous was suspended on February 1st. It is ironic that this stage has collected excellent reviews in the theater-related Soviet periodicals. The youth after the last performance on January 30, on which there were crowds, formed a march which from the theatre went to the monument of Adam Mickiewicz, chanting slogans against the interference of censorship and demanding the return of the performance. Militia detained 35 participants from the court on the charge of disorderly conduct, and from the next day on, a group of students from the University of Warsaw started collecting signatures for a petition addressed to the Sejm, protesting against the decision taken from the office of Dejmek. He belonged to this group, among others. Antoni Macierewicz, who later was arrested in connection with further student protests, for which he was suspended in student rights for several months. The oppressive actions of the authorities attracted attention and induced intellectual reactions. On the last February, such creators as e.g. Jerzy Andrzejewski, Paweł Jasienica, Stefan Kisielewski at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Warsaw Branch of the Polish Literary Association led to the adoption of a resolution condemning the cultural policy of Władysław Gomulka's people. When Adam Michnik and Henryk Szlaifer were relegated from the university, which was to be a punishment for their participation in the demonstration on 30 January, events began to accelerate. At the protest rally on 8 March 1968, several thousand students actually adopted a resolution stating: "We students of Warsaw universities (...) we declare: We will not let anyone trample on the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic. The repression of students who protested the disgraceful decision to ban the National Theatre is a clear violation of the article. 71th Constitution. We will not allow ourselves to be denied the right to defend the democratic and independence traditions of the Polish people. We will not be silent about repression. The student demonstration crashed the so-called. worker's asset and ORMO and militia. Professors Czesław Bobrowski and Stanisław Herbst intervened in defense of the students and against the violation of the autonomy of the university. Many students were transferred from the university directly into the military command of additions. There is no time to describe all the circumstances of these events. As I mentioned at the beginning, their background is somewhat unclear, but however it was, most of these young people who participated in them believed that they could make a breach in that inhuman system.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-sejm-51-1.u600	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 24 March 2022, at 12 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 21]]
