ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u1	Resume session. I will appoint Marta Kubiak, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers, as secretary of today's proceedings. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government's draft Homeland Defense Act, print No 2079. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] I heard... Is there an objection? [[No one's confessing.]] What's the point? There's no objection, I get it. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u2	I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Children's and Youth's Mental Health - at 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of the Wielkopolska Oncology Centre - at 3 p.m. 15.40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft law on the defence of the Homeland (prints No. 2052 and 2079). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft Homeland Defense Act, print No. 2052. The Parliament held its 49th meeting on 3 March 2022, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft law to the National Defence Commission for consideration. The National Defence Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meetings on 3 and 10 March 2022, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! At the first meeting of the Committee on National Defence in order to improve the procedure, the committee set up an emergency subcommittee in which all political environments, including the representative of the parliamentary circles, were represented. Representatives of economic organisations were also invited to participate in the work of the subcommittee, who had the opportunity to present their positions and comment on the bill. Due to the time pressure with mutual agreement, we worked in an extraordinary mode, but the subcommittee devoted time to each of the 805 articles. About 400 substantive and legislative and editorial amendments were tabled to the project. I would like to stress that at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence, which adopted the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee, all Members supported the adoption of the report. This demonstrates responsibility, but also confirms my opinion of substantive and very effective procedure. I thank Members for their substantive and responsible attitude during the procedure. Our conversations, our findings throughout the process led to an agreement, as evidenced by the outcome of the vote. I thank the legislators who, due to the size of the bill, worked to make all the comments that occurred during the work, all the days and nights. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this bill. Here special thanks are due to the Ministry of National Defence and the Minister. Thank you very much for taking up this extraordinary challenge and in such a short time these solutions were prepared, which all of Poland was waiting for. [[Applause]] However, I would like to express my special thanks to the silent hero of this event, which is the Homeland Defense Act. It is a figure without which commitment, without its political will and determination there would be no such law, there would be no 3% GDP for national defence, and the potential to deter the Armed Forces and the security of the Republic would be at a much lower level. Thank you, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: He, he, he!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u5	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet will be the first to speak on behalf of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Someone once said beautifully that Poles want independence, but they would like this independence to cost 2 gr and two drops of blood. But independence is not only a valuable good, but also, and perhaps above all, a very expensive one. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to think about and perhaps ask one very simple question: Why this law? The answer is simple, obvious. Recent events have shown that we cannot discuss with totalitarianism, we cannot cooperate at all. About these words in 2009 at Westerplatte, Poland. President Lech Kaczyński. How prophetic these words were. He knew it well. [[Voice from the room: Don't suck up.]] He knew exactly what the Polish state was like, and he knew exactly who the Kremlin tenant was. It took so long, it took a crime in Ukraine to get Europe to admit the world to this man. But what of today, if there are defenceless people dying there, if totalitarianism, if the chauvinism that we are dealing with at this moment in the performance of Vladimir Putin and his supporters is so visible today and so dangerous. You have to draw conclusions. And this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the proposal. Much earlier than the aggression on Ukraine, the Polish government noticed this enormous danger. I would like to remind you, for example, of a secret meeting of the Polish Parliament, where some things were already signalled at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom and security are our highest good. And as a political class, we need to do everything we can to get a clear message out of this place today that we know and realize that. We have always realized this, and now we understand it in a special way. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no other option, we must do everything we can to keep Poland safe, even if it costs us very dearly. But we must also remember one thing, please, that neither this law nor any other law is able to liberate something that is now liberated in the Ukrainian people, and should also be revived again in the Polish people, in us and in the generations that are coming after us. This is the love of the homeland, which must sometimes be occupied with blood, and sometimes a sacrifice of life. The example of heroic Ukraine must also affect us, it must go in this direction, but our history shows that we know it very well, we understand it and we can also do so. [[What about the bill?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a set of rules, assumptions which, I think, are quite clear and legible, even though it is so huge matter. This was discussed by the committee, the subcommittee, and you also have it in your report. One thing can be said: in this bill is everything that should be, and you must immediately start implementing it. But, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, love for the country cannot have a legal act. It must be something that will be liberated in us, which will be transferred from us to other generations, to the next generations. Sometimes it is good to use the words of those who, even a few centuries ago, have seen the values that should guide us today. Adam Mickiewicz wrote beautiful words in the epilogue to Mr. Tadeusz: "Today for us, in the world of uninvited guests, in the whole past and in the whole future/ There is only one country that is already one where there is some happiness for the Pole:/ Country of childhood years! He will always be Saint and pure as the first love. This is our case. The point is that this beautiful, clean country, Poland, safe, proud, wonderful, can move and pass on to future generations so that they can pride themselves and take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we Poles will never (the bell) ask for freedom. We fight for her, we defend her, and we respect her. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to make further amendments to this law and, of course, to ensure that our political environment, the United Right, fully supports this law because it loves our homeland. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u7	Mr Tomasz Siemoniak, Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to join my thanks to the members of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, the subcommittee, the chairman of the committee, the co-workers from the Ministry of National Defence, who devoted several days of work to preparing a project for the High House. I would like to stress that this work was done in a good spirit, in substance, with mutual understanding, with understanding of the situation. This better be a good sign - a sign that in safety matters you can work in a completely different way than in previous years. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, we make a few amendments. I am about to talk about them, but I would like to note that during the committee work we have adopted our proposal to submit the fund to the modernisation of parliamentary control. That's the spirit of cooperation. We would like to stress that every dollar, especially with increased expenditure, should be carefully watched and commitments made for several decades and worth several tens of billions should have broad support in Parliament. I would also like to appreciate the amendment of the Polish Coalition supported by all, which speaks about 50% of modernization orders addressed to the Polish defence industry. This is an important signal - a signal that the defence industry is also part of the defence potential. [[Applause]] Our amendments concern three issues. The first issue is the system of mobilization and additions. I talked about this during the debate at first reading. Yes, it was announced by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński that the changes concerning the liquidation of WKU and WSW will be postponed. Different regulations have been adopted to reduce the effects of this liquidation. Nevertheless, we ask that this matter be reconsidered, because anyone who has experience in the operation of a state apparatus or in the military knows well that any reorganisation causes confusion. Even if nothing is to change, structures cease to focus on their main tasks. So we make an amendment to put these changes aside for a quiet time and not to eliminate the WKU, which for several decades have grown into the landscape of Polish administration and district Poland. We think this is a mistake, and for the best coin we took the announcement that there would be no such change. The second amendment concerns the issue of the ban on the sale of the State Treasury's strategic assets at the time of the war and was launched, also at the Polish request, Article. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty. Of course, it is about stopping the sale of part of the Hungarian Lotus to a company that is linked to invaders in Ukraine. [[Applause]] The third amendment, which is very important, concerns the adoption of the reinforcement package. As we know, the bill will produce results in a long time - the main elements are increased funding and numbers - while we are convinced that we need to act here and now that the Council of Ministers should in a short time, we propose 3 months, adopt such a package of strengthening the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland for the years 2022-2023, to learn from the experience of the war, change certain priorities, buy certain things much faster. Everyone here is saying - I hope this will benefit the government - of anti-missile and anti-aircraft defence. After the discussion in committee, we hope that this amendment will be adopted by the High House. We also hope that this week of cooperation will continue, that we will be able to work together on security issues (the Bell) or the Civil Protection Act so that the results are fast and the Republic - more secure in these difficult times. Thank you very much. I'm making corrections to the Marshal's hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u9	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! War changes everything - these words best define the situation in which we are in. Our approach to armed expenditure must change, the organisation of the state's defence system must change, and the army itself must change. The government bill on the defence of the Homeland is an attempt to meet the challenges faced by the current international situation. The project submitted by the government was far from perfect. However, the Left took the view that government proposals should be worked on by making substantive amendments. We did what we had to do. What is important to emphasise is the legislative work in the Extraordinary Sub-Committee on the examination of the draft law was also of a substantive nature. Instead of adopting the bill by acclamation, we had tedious parliamentary work, which had concrete results. This is not a project that meets the expectations of the opposition, but it represents a step in the right direction towards the original government presentation. A number of amendments to the Left were adopted during the work of the subcommittee. I consider it particularly important to adopt an amendment that saved the jobs and services of around 3,000 people. staff and soldiers of voivodship command of additions and voivodship military staff. Thanks to this decision, thousands of people who have connected their lives with the Polish Army will have a peaceful sleep and will not have to worry about the future in these difficult times. The state's security situation is not a time when it is necessary to verify people associated with the military. On the contrary, this is the moment when the password should be valid: all hands on deck. The left, however, goes a step further. We consistently demand the resignation from the liquidation of the voivodship command of additions and voivodship military staffs. We make an appropriate amendment at the second reading stage. Defending your country is a task that will be useful for every pair of hands willing to work, to serve, but also to fight if necessary. For this to happen, it is necessary to modernise the Polish army. It seems difficult to finance it from debt issues today. However, the whole process must be under the maximum control of Parliament. During the work of the subcommittee, an amendment was adopted to subject the Fund for the Support of Armed Forces to the Parliamentary Control of the Defence Commission. The amendment adopted at the committee meeting is a very good step, but not enough. That is why we are making an amendment that goes much further in giving the Sejm control powers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We must learn lessons from the war in Ukraine. It is necessary to examine what types of weapons have proved to be crucial and what weapons have proved to be from the previous era. We need to answer the question of whether we need an army of 300,000. soldiers, or may 3% of our GDP spend on building an army of less numerous, but well trained and equipped, with satellite recognition and modern battlefield management systems. We will not answer this question today, but we must give it soon, together. A consensus must be reached between the main political forces as to what army Poland needs. One thing is clear at the moment - Poland needs a modern air defense system. The implementation of the programmesis and must be a top priority for the government. Two Patriot batteries, Minister, that's not enough. The defense of the country is a priority for everyone. We must create such an army, so that by the time of the final test it will never happen, that the Polish Army will force itself to scare away every potential aggressor. The message must be clear: we are creating such a strong and modern army that if anyone decides to bite Poland, then on our homeland, ladies and gentlemen, they will break their teeth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u11	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, the Coalition of Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It has not yet been in the history of free Poland that, at such an important time, the time of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we have passed such an important, extensive and necessary law for the defence of the Republic of Poland. Speaking today on behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, I would like to say that we appreciate the importance and seriousness of this law, but this bill was prepared by the rulers at a time when Russia had not yet invaded Ukraine. Now, of course, time is extraordinary. I also confirm that the work in the subcommittee was really in a compatible atmosphere, in an atmosphere of compromise and a certain understanding. We as Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, the club of the Polish Coalition, made two amendments. Two but very important amendments. Firstly, we agree that arms spending should increase to 3%. However, we believe that this should be introduced already this year, in 2022, and not in 2023, in view of what is going on behind our eastern border. This amendment has been rejected, I do not fully understand why, but this responsibility, Minister, is your responsibility. The second amendment concerned at least 50% expenditure on weapons left here, in Poland, in the Polish arms industry. I'm gonna get back to that because I'm gonna want to justify it. We also believe that we should immediately focus on the equipment that the Polish army needs now, looking through the prism of what is happening in Ukraine. Namely, anti-aircraft systems, anti-missile systems, anti-tank systems and drones, unmanned aircraft, which - let's see - play a very important and important role in what is happening in Ukraine. We're also talking about increasing the army's numbers to 300,000. Yeah, we agree on that. On the other hand, there are no such entries in the bill. I hope that this will be in the implementing acts and regulations. But we must also ask a very important question, very important from the strategic point of our partnership in NATO: Has this bill been agreed with our allies? Prime Minister, Minister, please reply to the High House, whether these changes, this draft act is known to NATO, the United States, the European Union, because the compatibility of command structures, compatibility of equipment, communication systems and all relations with allies, if not done, can be ruined. I would also like to appeal for you to... You have tabled amendments, I hope you have not tabled an amendment, so that at least 50% of the Polish arms plants will participate in the distribution or allocation of arms funds. Because, Minister, in one of the interviews, you yourself said - in 2020, in March, that you were a guest of the news - that at least 65% expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence is spent in the Polish arms industry. So I can't imagine, and that's why our amendment was so different. Because the Polish armament industry is Huta Stalowa Wola - artillery modules Rak, Regina, Kryl, Langusta, these are Siemianowice Silesian, where wheel-made armored transporters are produced Rosomak, that is Bumar-Łabędy in Gliwice - caterpillar chassis, Autosan in Sanok, where wheeled armored vehicles can be produced, WB Electronics in Mazowiecki Ożarów, where unmanned aircraft are produced, and there, in Radmora in Gdynia, Flytronic in Gliwice are also produced integrated systems of command, communication and fire control. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also Mesko in Skarżysko-Kamienna, where Polish Lightnings are produced, which are so effectively used at the moment in Ukraine. Let us verify, Minister, what products, what forces are needed at the moment, for the Polish army to be enriched with them, among others. in the Polish arms industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u13	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to make an amendment prepared by the Confederation to the Homeland Defense Act, an amendment that unlocks access to arms. We believe that such an amendment should be included in the Homeland Defense Act. Citizens should have the right to acquire weapons, undergo shooting training, raise their defence powers as future Polish Army reserveists and as civilians, who, as we see it in Ukraine at this moment, when the moment of trial comes, must face the opponent. And use a weapon that ultimately in a crisis situation is simply distributed to citizens. [[Applause]] Now a few notes to the bill. We do not have much time, but these comments could be formulated as a whole. I have proposed to the Minister of National Defence, I repeat this request, for a quick consultation with experts. It is almost obvious that if this act is voted out so quickly, it will need to be amended and updated immediately. First of all, it's a lack of realism in assumptions. At the moment, neither the regular types of Armed Forces nor the Territorial Defence Army are fully complete. A story about 300,000. soldiers without carrying out demographic analyses, without showing the schedule of expansion, without preparing resources such as barracks, uniforms, staff for training, the creation of new military universities, it is pure fantasy. The Act, as far as vacathio legis is concerned, is due to enter into force on 1 July and does not give time to properly prepare for its implementation. Unless the Minister himself does not view its assumptions as realistic, but simply as a point of political narrative. The third point is that wartime is not a good time for revolution and changing the fundamentals of the army's functioning. It is good that the provisions abolishing the current mobilisation system have been removed from the bill. Let us remind you that the Russian forces have mobilized to attack Ukraine since late spring 2021. The question is what cycle mobilisation we anticipate and implement. What are the reserves of the Polish Army, in which the average age seems to have exceeded 50 years of age? The big problem with this law - and here the charge, unfortunately, I am sorry directly to the Minister - is to consolidate the model of civil command, not civilian supervision, to transfer further powers from the staff to the minister. It is not the minister who should give orders to soldiers and not the minister who should be able to do so. The Minister should be able to change his command if he fails to carry out his duties properly. The lack of parliamentary control over the massive spending of money that will now be for the modernisation of the Armed Forces in BGK. What an idea for parliamentary control of these expenses You see, Minister, we didn't find that out. And one last thing, conflict with the constitution. Art. 11 states (The Bell) that the Armed Forces are the guardians of the sovereignty and independence of the State and its security and peace, while Article. 2 (2) 2...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u15	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u16	...is contrary to Article. 116 constitutions, because it is the Sejm who decides the state of war, not as the law points out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u17	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u18	We have these comments. much more, unfortunately, time is running out. I also appeal to your marshal that the time for such a serious debate should be a little longer, but it is not possible to conclude a law of 500 pages in three minutes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Homeland Defense Act is extremely important, for decades it will shape this area of functioning of the state. And it is also up to this law whether the army, industry and citizens will be ready to resist a possible attack by an aggressor. I would like to point out that, thanks to the work of the committee, this bill is much better today. I would like to thank both the President and all the members of the committee here for this good work. The Homeland Defense Act is also better today thanks to the adoption of many good amendments tabled by Poland 2050. We have prepared them in the sense of responsibility for the state and the fate of future generations. The government has recognised our key demands, thanks to which we have taken a big step forward in order to equip Poland with even better tools, and very well. However, there are still areas that can be improved to avoid chaos, known to us even from the Polish Deal. It's not obvious today. Firstly, we want the development programme of the Armed Forces to be approved at the level of the Council of Ministers. Today he's being prepared by the Minister of Defense. This stopped the modernisation in 2016. This change is necessary in order to achieve synergies and to prevent the Minister from changing and restricting the adopted programme on his own. This change is extremely important. The second package of amendments concerns the economic potential and the Polish arms industry. There is a high risk that the great potential of private companies will not be properly exploited, but it is in the interests of the state and is directly based on the security strategy approved by the President. The package for Polish companies 2050 gives a strong impetus to exploit the potential of private companies, so that we will also create a strong impetus for the economy. The third package is amendments for soldiers. The army cannot, without any justification, mirror private life and expel from service for unclear reasons. Soldiers deserve the highest respect. Our amendments will protect the dignity of the soldier, but on the other hand they will allow us to say goodbye to those who grossly violated the rules. We believe that the liquidation of voivodships and WKU can cause chaos, could cause the second Polish Load and we will support the departure from these changes. There is a lack of strong response to current challenges, a strong signal that e.g. Anti-aircraft and missile defense are priorities. We agreed in the subcommittee that there would be an amendment, and we will support this amendment. What is not in this law is a new approach to offset, to building the competences of the Polish industry and to technology transfer. We expect urgent action from the government on this matter. You can't treat offset like a free dinner. For offset, the technology must be paid and the Polish government must understand it. High Izbo! Poland 2050 will support this bill and at the same time we are looking forward to adopting the good amendments that we have prepared (The Bell) and which will make the bill even better serve Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u21	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u22	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Before I present our position on the Homeland Defense Act, I would like to pay tribute to those who, during this debate, defend their country against Russia Putin - the Ukrainian nation. Poland really helps our partners across the eastern border who share the same values as us: the right to self-determination of nations, freedom and civil rights and democracy. We have already accepted more than one million refugees, and in the international arena we are a lawyer as hard as possible against the beastly aggressors. As a parliament, we should all, both members of the government camp and representatives of the opposition, work in consensus on laws that guarantee the security of our citizens, because our sovereignty and security are not the subjects that should be the subject of the current political dispute. Here long-term reforms are needed for decades, not for this or the next term of office. A new comprehensive law regulating the defence of the State is necessary. For 30 years we have enjoyed relative peace, which unfortunately resulted in negligence in the area of modern legal and organisational solutions in the military sphere. The bill is certainly an attempt to catch up. The most important thing is to increase the funding of the army - this solution needs to be fully supported. However, Minister, it is important for any expenditure to be controlled by an external body. It is important for the Sejm to adopt a recommendation from the committee on the opposition proposal for parliamentary control and the Armed Forces Support Fund. This is a solution that will allow the question of strengthening our defence capabilities to be over-divisible. Minister! I would like to make another request, which is not governed by the law, but by the decision of the Minister for National Defence. Pursuant to Decision 1 September 2021, a Technical Modernisation Board was set up. In order to ensure long-term coordination, the involvement of representatives of all clubs and parliamentary circles in the work of the Council should also be considered. Another issue concerns the area of civil protection. The new law on civil defence has been frozen since 2019 in a government consultation. These issues were also raised at the committee meeting. Of course, this remains outside the competence of the Ministry of National Defence, but civil defense is just as important as the army. It is crucial that civil defence management is systematically established as a trace of solutions in other European countries in central government structures. The Parliamentary Circle of the Agreement will support the proposed amendments. At the same time, because this is not a statutory issue, we are counting on the good will of the Minister in this matter, we are calling for opposition representatives to be included in the bodies involved in planning the modernisation of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u23	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Democracy Direct position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on defence of the Homeland. [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] High Izbo! The work on the Homeland Defense Act is optimistic and it seems that we have learned from the history and warning of Józef Piłsudski that Poles want independence, but want this independence to cost 2 gr and two drops of blood. And independence is not only a precious good, but also a very expensive one. This law responds to current needs, significantly increases the financing of Poland's defence by allocating 3% to defence GDP. In addition, an extra-budget debt fund, the Armed Forces Support Fund, will be created. And I immediately call for the parliamentarians to consider this, from which budget departments we will take this money, because we have huge needs in terms of education, health, agriculture, infrastructure, but without a strong army, without independence there will be neither Polish education, nor efficient health services, nor infrastructure, nor modern agriculture. It is commendable to ensure transparency and control mechanisms for expenditure, i.e. subject to the supervision of the Sejm of expenditure and the direction of development of the Armed Forces. So there will be an annual report on the implementation of the Armed Forces Development Programme and the submission of the non-budget Fund for the Support of the Armed Forces of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! Without our own weapons industry, there is no safe state, as we experienced during the attack on Poland in 1920. The supply of Hungarian ammunition proved to be priceless for the victory, so we welcome the change in the project, that the expenditure on weapons will remain at least 50% in Polish weapons facilities. The proposed package of solutions will significantly strengthen the Armed Forces of Poland and allow for the jump modernization and strengthening of our army. I hope that soon the High House will lean on the development of territorial defence and the Arms and Ammunition Act, as these two solutions are necessary to effectively defend against aggression, as we see now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u25	Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a paper rhyme. [[We know.]] It's a paper rhyme... [[But it's written down.]] ...and we can't protect ourselves from a bullet fired from a 7.62 x-caliber aisle. 39. [[Genius.]] With several hundred meters ball 7.62 x 39 will pierce this paper rhyme. [[It's not a theater, sir.]] This rhyme of paper is the answer to your last 7 years of government - 7 years. The Polish army needs air defense, missile defense, anti-aircraft defense, helicopters, submarines, artillery... [[Don't read...]] ... drones, military satellites, finally needs Polish ammunition, cyber-defense from real events and the Polish defence industry - the Polish defence industry, which will be taken seriously and not as a storage tank with positions well paid for its friends. [[But Macierevich will destroy him.]] The paper market can't replace that. The Act also does not solve the blurry responsibility for the defence of Poland, blurry between the President, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. Of course, the constitution regulates it, but it would be worth talking about it sometime. Neither does the law regulate civil protection that we don't have. It would also be worth mentioning and remembering. The bill can finally cause, at such a difficult time when the war is at our gates, chaos. I really hope that there are a lot of regulations in the drawers of the Minister for National Defence, because this law, in order to act, requires many regulations, acts of lower rank. I hope they're prepared. This rhyme, ladies and gentlemen - I speak to the rulers - you will not hide us from the bullets of enemies and this rhyme of paper you will not cover 7 years lost for Polish defence. During these years we could solidly strengthen the Polish army, not weaken it. There was PLN 100 billion for this. In the face of a real threat, the PPS Parliamentary Circle will support this bill, but it must be made clear: the responsibility for defence is borne by the rulers, the responsibility for implementing this law falls on the rulers. If you can handle it, time will tell. I hope it's okay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u27	We are now approaching the questions. 31 Members have signed up. Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice is the first to ask a question. I'm setting a question time for one minute and closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The modern concept of national defence is the heart of our government's actions and it is a guarantee that Poland will be free and independent. But I still have a hot request for action to the Minister today - maybe next to this law, but also very important - which fits into the pedagogy of Polishness: may all Soviet plaques, all Soviet monuments (Applause), all Soviet streets disappear from the Polish public space. [[Street names.]] Because it fits into what Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński said, that Ukraine defends itself because it has high morale. But he has high morale because Ukrainian soldiers are patriots. There, patriotic pedagogy was used, and here we are. We also need Polish pedagogy so that we can be proud together that we are Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker said something about Russian monuments. I think the biggest Russian monument today is that you decide to sell 420 Lotus petrol stations (Applause) and hand them over to Russian, sorry, Hungarian MOL. This is a real Russian monument that we can tear down today. [[You guys were gonna sell Putin.]] Because this amendment is in the hands of the High House today, and with your permission, we can stop this sale. [[And you wanted to sell Poland.]] [[Let's stop Nord Stream 1.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what led you earlier when it comes to selling Lotus to Hungarians, but I know what should be driving you now, namely a deep sense of patriotism. Here's the situation. The reality has changed. Orbán refused to transport ammunition to Ukraine. Orbán disagrees with energy sanctions. According to Hungarian journalists, Orbán issued the so-called. a golden visa for the heads of Russian Special Forces. What more proof do you need for this man to be a friend of Putin's? What's that? Mr. Macierewicz, who? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u31	No despair, despair. Really, sir. It's so small and so stupid. [[But don't comment.]] It's really... Well, that's sad, isn't it? You're welcome, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of National Defence in the bill skipped system issues concerning the development of the Polish arms industry and preferences to purchase weapons of Polish companies. Therefore, I have questions for the Minister of National Defence, which the voters asked me to do. Namely: What is the state of progress announced by the Minister of National Defence in 2016 in the program of construction of reconnaissance and combat drones? Why haven't anyone seen these drones before? Why aren't any of these drones flying? These drones were to produce Military Aviation Plant No. 2 in Bydgoszcz. What is the current condition of these airlines? What tasks and benefits for Military Aviation Works No. 2 will result from the provisions of the Homeland Defense Act? Dear Minister, especially on the issue of the construction of drones since 2016, I ask you to respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u33	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, a very concrete and substantive question at the same time. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 51 of the bill assumes that the industrial defence potential companies, the Industrial Development Agency SA, the Polish Development Fund SA, executive agencies and other state legal entities may purchase military equipment for leasing to the Armed Forces, with instalments for leasing to be covered by the State budget or the Armed Forces Support Fund. And now the question is, if the ARP and the PFR are to sell weapons, do they have concessions for so-called weapons? Special turnover? How should the ARP and PFR learn what military equipment to buy? The Act does not talk about the principles of cooperation between them and the Armored Agency or the General Staff of the Polish Army. At the same time, the technical modernisation plan is classified and MON decisions do not apply to non-MON entities. Can the ARP and the PFR carry out the task of dealing arms (the bell) by their subsidiaries? Are ARP and PFR obliged to apply the offset law? How is this supposed to work in practice? And a number of other doubts about this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u35	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You had seven years to prepare the Polish army for an emergency situation. [[But we didn't have Korwin.]] For the last seven years, you've barely done that. Now that there's a crisis, when there's a war outside our eastern border, when Putin attacked Ukraine, it's suddenly remembered that an army needs to be modernised. The Confederation's been talking about this for years. [[Korwin didn't say.]] And we'll talk about it for years. Ladies and gentlemen! We will support this bill, as we have already said. However, remember that we are still lacking in what the training systems will look like, what the new procedures will look like. There's a lot of stuff to do here. Because you want to increase the army's numbers to 300,000. Soldiers, but the budget doesn't go for it. So what I'm wondering is how exactly you're gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u37	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a result of the article. Ten drafts of this bill? It appears that any military authority will be able to request any information, regardless of its actual usefulness for the performance of its statutory tasks. [[Oh, Jesus.]] In the Polish legal system there has never been such a wide open door for interference in privacy of each and every one of us. This provision excludes all existing privacy safeguards in the legal system. To what extent these records can be dangerous, even the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator draws attention. Ladies and gentlemen! War, hopefully, will pass, but this bill will stay with us for years. I believe that you will not remain deaf to the amendment we have tabled in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u39	Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to raise the issue mentioned in my speech, the issue of civil protection. The Civil Defense Act is now being consulted. Of course, the issue of civil protection remains outside the competence of the Ministry of National Defence, but it is a very important factor, crucial to the security of the state. At the moment, what happened automatically, the office of head of civil defense is subordinate to the Chief of State Fire Department. This has many limitations. The question is whether it is not necessary to modify this law so that it is connected to the command system in critical situations, also in the situation of security threat of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u41	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Defending your country is the duty of every citizen. And Poles want to defend their homeland. Currently, despite the absurd limitations in the Law on arms and ammunition, Poles have over 587 thousand. weapons. But these people need to be coordinated in territorial defence. When will the Ministry lean on the development of territorial defence? And the second question: When will the shooting galleries be built in each district, or maybe even in the municipality, so that Poles can practice and improve their skills in the use of weapons? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u43	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister, for working together for months on the Homeland Defense Act. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr Michal Jach, and all the members of the Committee, for their cooperation with the present law. It should be emphasized that the law will build the foundation for the development of the Polish army, so that it is more numerous and equipped with modern equipment, and financing mechanisms are put in place. These issues are important when it comes to building security. I'll repeat after the classic: you want peace, get ready for war. Together, ladies and gentlemen, let us work to strengthen our defences, and above all so that there is peace in Poland and around the world. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u45	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill increases national defense expenditures. Poles are willing to do so, they want to spend a lot of money on national defense, but they believe that this money will be used well. They believe that both us, the parliamentarians and the government, as a matter of urgency, with these measures, will increase the fighting potential of our armed forces, that we will increase our country's resilience to threats. That is why we want the Council of Ministers, within three months of the adoption of this law, to establish a package of strengthening the Armed Forces, covering the most important tasks in the area of weapons and military equipment with modern equipment, and also to show the Council of Ministers what military units, which battle stations will be increased. This will actually achieve what we all want: we will raise the level of security of our country. With regard to this agreement, there is only one thing that bothers me: you want to eliminate military reinforcement commands and voivodship military staffs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's irresponsible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u47	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this law is the result of what is happening beyond our borders, and it will probably not solve all problems relating to defence or the Polish army with one magical movement. On the other hand, I have a question about cooperation with local authorities in the implementation of this law. The truth is that additional expenditures on equipment, equipment, the increase in the size of the Polish army should also cover the entire facilities. Therefore, it is also very important that local communities in places where this is planned participate and support all of this. Another thing - in this way of thinking - I have a request to the Minister to take into account what is actually happening in these local governments at the moment - is, of course, a matter of the entire anti-aircraft and anti-missile protection system. Question: "When will the decision be made regarding the new aircraft that Poland has purchased and the fate of the base in Świdwin?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u49	Mr Marek Sawicki, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is pleased that for many years in this defence parliament it has been agreed that cooperation between the rulers and the opposition has been restored, because these are matters that will be carried out not for a month, not for a week, and for years to come. That is why I would like, however, that we should not forget, in this euphoria resulting from today's reconciliation, that weapons, equipment should be bought to a large extent - said Mr Bejda - Polish production, from Polish weapons plants. It's also about us planning shopping, for example. helicopters, aircraft, rockets also thought about how to involve Polish industry in cooperation, in cooperation with those plants from which we will buy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I have said to the public many times that our interest must be directed more towards European purchases, not necessarily only American ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u51	Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u52	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! During the committee's work, an amendment was made to the law in respect of the article. 40, saying that each year the share of the Polish arms industry is at least 50% all expenditure on the modernisation of the Armed Forces. Question: "Is this a good amendment at this moment, for the time when Poland was present today?" Do we not limit the possibility of quickly arming the Polish army? Today we often need equipment, which Polish industry is unfortunately not producing. Today, there is no time to wait for this equipment, and unfortunately, arming the army is becoming more and more urgent. My question to the Minister: Wouldn't it be better to improve our defence capabilities to make this amendment work, but to spread it to 50% for a few years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u53	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The High Chamber is proceding the draft Homeland Defense Act quickly and efficiently. This shows that we can reach an agreement on many matters. It would be good if we also reached an agreement when it comes to strengthening the Armed Forces package, because this is an opportunity to increase the security of Poland. We didn't break a copy during the bill's work on advances, although we're not changing our mind. 28 billion in advances, which today, in the coming months, are not equivalent in kind, is a serious problem with the budget of 58%. The law contains Article. 49, which limits the amount of the advance to 1/3 of the order value (the bell). But let's do it when it comes to the whole budget. 1/3 of the budget in advance, no more, it's important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u55	Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Homeland Defense Act is an extremely important law, especially when there is a war beyond our eastern border. Minister! Ministers of National Defence! You receive powerful weapons from all political parties in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We support this law, which is very important for the safety of Poland, for the safety of Poles and Poles. I call on the Ministry of Defence to have its head at the back when modernising the Polish army to take care of the Polish arms industry, to support Polish technical thought. I understand that this will not always be possible, as not all technologies are so far available in our country. I would remind you of the urgent need to purchase helicopters, submarines and military satellites. I also have a request for more frequent meetings of the Committee on National Defence in classified form, because we want to actively participate in the process of modernising the Polish army. Finally, I want to thank all the soldiers for their service in the country or on missions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u57	Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u58	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The old saying from the art of war: You want peace, get ready for war today is very real. Poland and Poles do not want war, but Poland and Poles must be prepared for war. Thank you, Minister, for this bill, for all these changes, because they show that the Government of Law and Justice cares for the safety of Poles. This bill did not appear today, the state has been working on this bill for a long time, at the head of this work was Jarosław Kaczyński. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we need to think about how to make more young people military. My question: Minister, this bill talks about increasing the size of the Polish army. I'd like you to tell me what it's going to look like, what will be the encouragement (the bell) for young people joining the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u59	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u60	To be safe to win a war, you have to have money, you have to have an army, and you have to take care of it. [[To make wise decisions.]] So what are the preparations for this Homeland Defense Act? Expenditure - 3% GDP. My colleagues said how this should be: security, purchase, missile defense and other solutions. But there should be an army counting, as you declare, 300,000. Minister! We need a plan, all the logistics, accommodation, exercises, shooters and training, and that's what this bill doesn't have, this whole infrastructure. And now, what it looks like... Money under parliamentary control. And one last thing. You say it's been safe for the last seven years. Declaration of 2016 on the purchase of 21 helicopters in Mielec. Minister Macierewicz remembers. How long before the bell was bought? Four. [[12.]] This is the real picture of how you cared about security and defending your homeland. Time to go to work, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u61	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice takes care of the military and the expense. It was already for the current government that the expenditure was increased to 2.5%. gross domestic product, now they're going to be up to 3%, but that's not the end of it, because there's going to be huge bonds. Hundreds of billions of zlotys will go to the army, really this bill is jumping. I have a question: Are there reasonable proposals that the opposition is proposing to give 50% expenditures in the Polish arms industry? Because I think it's quite frivolous and impossible to implement. But you want peace, get ready for war. This law should be supported by the High House as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You've been getting ready for seven years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u63	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Homeland Defense Act is a good foundation for building a strong army, an army necessary especially in such turbulent times, but even the best foundation is only the beginning of the construction. We must remember that it will take years. A package of strengthening of the Polish armed forces is needed. The strengthening of military aviation should be an important element. There is an urgent need to equip our soldiers with modern multi-tasking and impact helicopters. [[Applause]] It's also about moving away from Soviet construction equipment. Today, the Polish army uses nine types of helicopters. From the point of view of training and logistics, this is a nightmare that the military are paying attention to. They're calling for a unified fleet. Of course, we could already have 50 new multitasking helicopters, but unfortunately dear Dr. Berczyński, as he himself said, failed them. And no one has heard about Polish-Ukrainian choppers, no one has seen them. Minister! When will the government leave the homeopathic strengthening of the fleet of helicopters (The Bell) and take courageous decisions actually building up the capabilities of a Polish soldier? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[When Charek gets his gun permit.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, serious.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u65	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over the last years, Poland has increased its defence expenditure. E.g. in 2017 - PLN 37 billion, in 2020 - PLN 51.5 billion and in 2021 - more than PLN 58 billion. Current Act establishing 3% defence expenditure GDP is a radical growth. In 2020 global defence spending was 2.4% higher than in 2019 and Russia spent over $62 billion in 2020, which gave it fourth place in the world. Poorer economic Ukraine - only 10% this amount, so there's a difference in scale. My question to the Minister: How in 2020 do expenditures in relation to GDP (Dawn) in Poland and other countries of the European Union look like, especially in Germany, where they do not exceed 1.4% GDP? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u67	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In matters of state security, we should speak with one voice, and the government should act rationally, so it is no time to experiment and liquidate WKU or WSW. [[But there's no I.A., there's the Military Police.]] Just like it's no time to put some money on the military outside the state budget and create more funds. Just like no time, ladies and gentlemen, to sell Orlen to Hungarians. [[There's no I.A. What's an I.A.?]] Please don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the time to arm the Polish army. Question: When will AW139W combat helicopters be ordered from PZL-Świdnik, which have been promised? Until today, not a single helicopter has been ordered. Today is the time, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the security of the country, and especially the eastern part from which I come, our country, because moods are not the best, and the Polish state so far does not express a sense of security (the bell) of Polish citizens. [[Applause]] [[Something like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u69	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The importance of the Territorial Defence Army, the WOT, I think the war in Ukraine has shown the most. The need of these troops seems to be increasing every day of this war, increasing their role. Territorial Defence forces require supplies, systematic supplies of equipment. Minister, will these activities, which are, allow Polish plants to produce consumables for equipment that will be imported from abroad? Because this is a very important issue, especially with prolonged conflicts (the bell), and such conflicts can occur. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u71	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Without its own and strong defence industry, it is difficult to talk about effectively supplying the army with the necessary equipment and weapons. Based on this logic, the opposition offered to 50% money earmarked for military purchases was at the disposal of the Polish defence industry. [[Applause]] Therefore, Minister, we ask whether the government will support these good solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And what are the solutions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u73	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a saying: diplomacy without cannons is like music without instruments. As you can see, these words have not lost their news, which is best shown by the war in Ukraine. I would like to thank you very warmly from this point of view for the very prudent and wise decision to purchase 250 abrams. But I would also like to ask if, in light of what is happening across the eastern border today, there is a chance to speed up the supply of these tanks. Is there also a chance to speed up training for soldiers who will serve them? The point is that by the time the abrams are delivered, we will have trained, prepared soldiers to serve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u75	Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Putin's release, as the classic used to say, politics is a bloodless war, and war is a bloody politician, it's acts of terror marked by crimes on civilians. Therefore, it is necessary, bearing in mind the Polish state's right, to be part of building a strong security segment, to defend the North Atlantic Collective Pact on the eastern front of NATO, to adopt a law on the defence of the Homeland, which may not be perfect, and the records will be implemented after weeks, months or years. Changes are necessary. The question is whether the government gives the green light to the immediate implementation of the Armed Forces Reinforcement Package, which will enable the technical modernisation process to be stepped up and updated against the threats (the Bell) occurring in the eastern direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u77	Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was talk of what was needed to defend the country, that an army was needed, that money was needed. But one more thing is needed: they are needed by the power of patriots who want to defend this country. [[Applause]] As for the bill. I have a question for the Minister: How will this bill increase the defence of our country and our security? We know that we often have such patriots who, in their concern for Poland, present various interesting ideas, among others. That idea about 50%, too. And the real question is, Minister, isn't that just sticking a wheel in the spokes? And as for talking about it... [[A stick.]] A stick in the spokes, yeah. That's the idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As for your patriotism. I remind you of how you let the Russian security service into the European counterintelligence centre. Yes, you let her in, and today you are the first defenders of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u79	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The unanimous vote of this law in the Committee on National Defence shows and confirms that security that national defence is in good hands with President Andrzej Duda, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. This confirms that the actions taken since 2015 are extremely effective, these actions aimed at increasing the capabilities and support of the Polish Armed Forces. This is primarily the creation of the Territorial Defence Army. This is primarily the creation of 18. Mechanized Division - Iron Division. This is the latest decision made by the Minister, the establishment of the Cyberspace Defence Army. Extremely important and extremely necessary things that support Polish defence, the Polish Armed Forces. And this has been the case over the years, through the rule of law and justice. I would like the bill to be adopted unanimously, as it was adopted during the committee's deliberations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u81	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u82	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! The war in Ukraine has shown, and some have made it clear how important the Armed Forces are and how important it is to have weapons. Polish anti-aircraft kits Lightning test with their effectiveness in defending Ukraine, and the media report that Ukrainian soldiers are delighted with their effectiveness. Therefore, I have a question about how the procedated law on defence of the Homeland will affect the development of the Polish arms industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u83	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! How will the Homeland Defense Act affect the deployment of the Armed Forces on the territory of the Republic of Poland in relation to the state which is and which we found? I'm particularly interested in areas east of the Vistula. We know from the historical experience and activities of the Belarusian regime in recent months, as well as recent events that Poland is facing the greatest threat, the greatest burden and the greatest responsibility. And I would like to ask you again whether dislocation at all will change so much that we will be safer with regard to the situation that is at the moment. I would also like to ask the Minister what military units east of the Vistula were liquidated during the reign of the POs and PSLs, who are now sounding an alarm to immediately arm, arm that too little, too late, etc. [[Exactly.]] Tell me, or, for example, in Lublin they left the units, whether they were being liquidated. And what other places east of the Vistula? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u85	Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? There isn't. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It welcomes the fact that today, Members of the opposition appreciate the provisions of the Homeland Defense Act. It is good that the reflection finally came, because there was a time when they attacked and tried to ridicule those Poles who wanted and are ready to serve their homeland. The Minister of Defense of the Platform called the WOT soldiers weekenders in uniform. The territorial defence forces have been in existence for five years and are working perfectly in the service of their country, helping our local communities in crisis situations. Today, the first thing that should be said from this speaker is, "I'm sorry." The former Minister of Defence of the Platform should stand today on a parliamentary platform and apologize for both his words and the words of his clubmates. Our homeland, especially after years of collapsing the Polish army by the Platform, still needs to strengthen its defence potential and that is why this law has been prepared. And a word to the Platform politicians. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a good thing you're begging for a Polish weapons system, only we need to rebuild it first after you destroyed it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u87	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It fell here in one of the statements, perhaps a Member of the Left, that Poland needs a smaller but more professional army. Today, given what is happening in Ukraine, we see that it is exactly the opposite. We need a well-equipped army, number and professional. But apparently these people haven't learned anything. And one more reflection, ladies and gentlemen. One of the members of the Civic Coalition said something about transferring our shares, the Hungarian station to MOL and that this is some kind of symbol. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to do everything - I am addressing the Members of the Civic Platform - to try to get out of our consciousness, from our history, from the media coverage of these hideous pictures, videos showing how a man named Donald Tusk, making a failing sign of the cross in Smolensk after the catastrophe, drowned in the embrace of the monster from the Kremlin (The Bell), the one he called our man in Moscow. Then do it. [[Applause]] [[He was high fives.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm still making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u89	The Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank all the involved parliamentarians for their constructive and especially rapid and efficient work on this project. I call on us to maintain the speedy pace of legislative work also in the future, in the Senate, so that we can get to work on this important law as soon as possible. Thank you for your comments, for your questions. I think we can all be sure that if we don't take care of the safety of our homeland ourselves, no one will do it for us. In this respect, the military Polish must be more numerous, Polish Army must have modern weapons, because this is the only effective way to deter an aggressor. And we all see what's going on behind our eastern border, and we see that the challenges are serious. Therefore, we are developing the Polish Army. I would like to stress that these are good rules for the difficult times that have come. Law and Justice since 2015 has consistently developed the Polish Army, and so does President Andrzej Duda, commander of the Armed Forces. These are actions which result in the development of the Polish Army's numbers and which result in contracts signed and executed. The Polish Army will be equipped with Polish Patriots this year, next year - HIMARS and then - F35. This year, there will be Bayraktars, strike drones, which proved to be true during the war, enabling the Russian invasion of Ukraine to be resisted. So this is the weapon that is effective, so it should reach the equipment of the Polish Army as soon as possible. To be able to hit, there must be a strong financial foundation, hence at least 3% from next year and hence the Armed Forces Support Fund. This is the money that is an investment in the safety of our homeland. Allow me to comment on a few comments. The opposition repeated like a mantra: a reinforcement package. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing this reinforcement package by updating the detailed directions for the development of the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces Development Programme, the technical modernisation programme, whose implementation has been extended in a 15-year perspective. We accept your intentions, we assume they're positive, but that's not new what you're proposing. As a mantra you also repeat words about the alleged liquidation of WKU and WSW. That's not true. We've talked about this many times, but no, you're yours, because it's probably already in your minds that you've been encrypted so much that you have to repeat it... [[Minister...]] ...and repeat, repeat, repeat. We legally guarantee employment, we legally guarantee the maintenance of remuneration, we preserve the structure, we give new tasks to WKU, WSW. They will indeed change their name, but new tasks are necessary to make the Polish Army more numerous. That's what I'm talking about. I will no longer mention certain behavior, one might say, a bit provocative one of the celebrities who went to a certain WKU with his willingness to join the Polish Army and was sent away with a receipt. I do not wish to generalize this situation, but unfortunately we have also dealt with such phenomena. So the idea is that these new tasks, above all in terms of the development of the Armed Forces, should be done in the best way possible, so that the goal that we have actually set ourselves, i.e. the larger Polish Army, is the goal that has been fulfilled. I don't agree with the theory here that the military should be less numerous, and in return, well-armed. Well-armed - of course, yes, but a few armies cannot be strong, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's obvious, but we have to do it again: a few armies can't be strong. For the Polish Army to be strong, it must be numerous. It must be numerous. [[Applause]] As far as the Polish arms industry is concerned, we are really exploiting the potential of the Polish arms industry, we are making the most of it, but the Polish arms industry after many years, after decades when it was not developed, needs time to solidify. But we are presenting a program of rapid increase in arms procurement. It is so - it was from the mouth of Mr Hreniak, Mr Suski or Mr Andzel - that, in the situation in which we are in, it is simply impossible that 50% orders are sent to the Polish arms industry. [[Applause]] We will direct orders to the Polish arms industry when the Polish arms industry will be able to implement them. I assume that by increasing expenditures in the time horizon it will be so that the Polish arms industry will dominate when it comes to the execution of orders, but it is not possible today, it is simply not possible. Let's be realistic. We need to increase the expenditure on reinforcements rapidly and we can do so, first of all by buying equipment, buying weapons abroad, although, once again, there is a great weapon produced by the Polish arms industry, and of course we will benefit from these opportunities, as we have used so far. There was a question about our allies. Our allies, ladies and gentlemen, are enthusiastic about this project. I spoke to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg no further than yesterday. The day before yesterday, I spoke to the Secretary of Defense of the United States, Lloyd Austin. They're interested. Two days ago, I also spoke to the Secretary of Defense of the United Kingdom, Ben Wallace. Of course, yes. These are your... At each NAC meeting, the NATO Secretary-General, among the Ministers of National Defence, invites the member states of the Alliance to increase their defence spending. We've increased these expenses, we're spending more than 2%. GDP, but it's not enough. And especially in the situation in which our homeland is today, when we have war abroad, we increase expenditure. Yesterday I participated, I was a member of the delegation, in the meeting of President Andrzej Duda with the Vice President of the United States Kamala Harris, and on this subject too. Yeah, we did. This is noticed by our allies, this is appreciated. This effort guarantees the safety of Poland, but also guarantees the security of the entire eastern flank of the North Atlantic Alliance. Because we must remember, ma'am, that the Alliance is so constructed - it is above all our duty to defend our homeland. If we are fulfilling this obligation, we will receive support. On the other hand, if we think that someone else is going to protect us, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be delusional, no one will defend our homeland for us. I would also like to stress in response to Mrs Masłowska's question that, when it comes to the eastern part of our country - yes, indeed, it was a fact, I have said from this speaker many times, that until 2015, especially in 2011, because it was the worst year, when most of the units were wound up just east of the Vistula - we are rebuilding this potential east of the Vistula, we will locate our efforts just east of the Vistula, because this is the part of our country, which must first be equipped with the army, must be guaranteed security in the first place in this part of our homeland. And yet the issues that have emerged, which do not concern the matter of this law. As far as access to weapons is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the matter of this bill. As far as civil defense is concerned, it's not the matter of this bill either. Soon, I hope, a project by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which concerns civil protection, will be presented, and then the High House will discuss this project. Mr Kossakowski asked about incentives for young people. Yes, this is a whole range of incentives for young people to join the Polish Army. We start by taking over from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration the organization and carrying out military qualifications. This is the first stage when young people, young men, come into contact with the army - when the qualification takes place. We want to invite them to tie their future to the Polish Army by then. Then the entire catalogue of scholarships at civil universities, the Academic Legion is also a fundamental issue, i.e. voluntary, basic military service for those willing to pay, I think worthy, over 4,000. zł, which also gives the possibility to gain additional qualifications during the performance of this service, i.e. binding a young man with the Polish Army. If he does not take advantage of this proposal, if, after a year of service, he decides to pursue himself outside the army, then we are dealing with a man who has acquired the basic skills associated with defending his homeland. So this is how we build reserves, so that everyone is aware of how to behave if there is a threat. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your work so far and I ask you to adopt this project unanimously by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u91	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Marshal, still as rapporteur, I wanted to.]] I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 36 hours 20 min 53]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u92	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain that the Convention has just been held. The situation is a little different. However, the Senate is voting on the bill again. Just a moment ago we received information - literally just a moment ago - that the signed resolution will be with us in the morning, at 3 p.m. 8. Mr Szczepański said that if this were the case, he would be here at noon. 8.30 could do a committee meeting. Perhaps the committee will finish work within the hour and then we could start voting at no time. 16, but at 4 p.m. 10. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] As you can see, it's not up to us. If it turns out that it will not be passed on to us at hours. 8, despite the assurances, this will be a change, but at this moment there is a promise that we will have this resolution at hours. Eight, and then we'd finish this in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to a quorum. Please press any button. Today I will read faster, as well as messages will be shorter. 448 Members are taking part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency, print No 2082. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the National Defence Committee on the government bill on the defence of the Homeland. The additional committee report is in print No 2079-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u93	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen and Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft Homeland Defense Act, print No. 2052. Having considered the amendments at its meeting on 11 March 2022, the Committee on National Defence proposes to accept 13 amendments, reject 52 amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u94	Thank you very much. By the way, I would like to thank you, just like yesterday's committee of government, so today the Committee on National Defence and Mr Jach for his good work. Thank you. [[Applause]] The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2079. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favor of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 16 - for, against - 436, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. Who's in favor of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 176 - for, 274 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. Who's in favour of the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 378 - for, 2 - against, 74 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. Amendments 43, 48, 49., 53, 56, 61 to 65 are combined with it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 6, 7, 16 to 20, 42, 44 to 47, 50, 52, 57, 58 and 59. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 5, 43, 48, 49, 53, 56, 61 to 65? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 31. Amendments 7, 16 to 20, 42., 44 to 47, 50, 52, 57 and 59. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 58. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 6, 7, 16 to 20, 42, 44 to 47, 50, 52, 57 and 59. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 59 - for, 232 - against, 164 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I haven't finished the vote yet. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Then change your seat. Is it working, Member? [[Voice from the room: I changed...]] It's working. 456 Members voted. 220 for, 235 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 10th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 240 for, 216 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favor of the 12th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... [[Sorry, buddy...]] Whoever's crazy likes it. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] 457 Members voted. 220 for, 236 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 377 for, 1 against, 76 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 15th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favor of the 15th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 224 - for, 231 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 21st Amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Who's in favour of the 21st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 127 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. Amendments 23 to 25, 28 and 31 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 22nd to 25th, 28th and 31st, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 26th amendment to the article. 176 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 26th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 454 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 27th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 371 - for, no one was against, 84 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 29, with which Amendment 30 is linked. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the amendments 29th and 30th? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 375 - for, 42 - against, 39 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 602 applicants propose to amend part of the common calculation. Amendments 33, 34 and 36 to 40 and 54 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 32, 33, 34, 36 to 40 and 54, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 35. Who's in favor of the 35th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 419 - for, 3 - against, 32 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 41. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favor of the 41st Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 216 - for, 228 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 51. Who's in favour of the 51st Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 285 - for, 1 - against, 168 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 55. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favor of the 55th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 276 - for, 1 - against, 177 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 58th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 58th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 453 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 60th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 60th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 225 for, 5 against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2079, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 450 - for, no one was against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed the Homeland Defense Act. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency (Prints No 2081 and 2082). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency, print No 2081. On 11 March 2022, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The committees have examined this resolution today. One amendment has been tabled. For a period of 2 months, it offers great opportunities... [[What?]] ... imports into and exports from the territory of Ukraine of armored, protective equipment, constructions and their components, as well as purchase for import into Ukraine of bulletproof vests, military and police helmets. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We know, we know.]] The high committees therefore recommend that this amendment be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-11-sejm-50-3.u96	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. In its amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 2a-2d. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? But it's not over yet. I don't know what kind of... The lesson isn't over yet. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The vote was 451. Two for, against - 449, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 March this year. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 39]]
