ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u1	I open the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska as well as Senators Rafał Ambrozik and Viktor Durlak as secretary of the sitting. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska will lead as the first list of speakers. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a hybrid formula, as has been the case lately and is described in the article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches in discussions and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators participating in the meeting remotely that starting the survey in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." You should then double-click on the pass button after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, January 27th this year. 70th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz. In order to commemorate it, the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliaments, at the request of the President of the Austrian National Council, Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, proposed that the parliaments of the Member States join the campaign "#WeRemember This action aims to commemorate millions of victims of destruction, as well as to express public opposition to every manifestation of hatred, images and anti-Semitism, and to stand firm in favour of democracy and pluralism. There are cards in front of you with the logo of this action. I encourage you now to stand together for a moment in silence so that we can prove our remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust and our concern for the future of mankind. [[Everybody up.]] [[The senators keep the cards with the inscription "WeRemember" upstairs.]] Thank you very much. I kindly inform you that every lady and every senator can also be individually involved in the action. Twelve o'clock. On the second floor there will be a photographer waiting for you to take a photo of individual activity within the campaign. Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have just celebrated the memory of the Jewish community and it is a very good opportunity for Mr. Marshal to lay down the statute of kaliski, which was published by Prince Bolesław Pgodni in 1264 for the Jewish community. The reprint of this statute was burned on 11 November Ub. r. by anti-Semitic groups in Kalisz. On your hands, Mr. Marshal, I would like to convey this charter with dignity.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u3	Thank you very much... [[Applause]] Thank you very much. These documents will go to the senate library. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of objections to the minutes of the thirty-third meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-fourth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of you raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The Committee on Local Government and State Administration has not prepared a report on point 10: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Education and certain other laws. This item will therefore not be included on the agenda approved by the Senate. I would remind you that the draft law to be discussed on the third item of the agenda was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. I propose that points 1 and 2 and points 4 to 9 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of examination of the current point eight: the Act amending the Act on the processing of Passenger Name Record data and considering it as the first point; and the previous paragraph seventh: the Act on Passport Documents and consider it as point two. These changes result from requests from ministries. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Thank you. I don't see any calls. In the absence of votes against, I declare that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. I would like to inform you that the current sitting has been extended by 4 February this year by decision of the Senior Convention. Then, subject to the preparation of a report by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law amending the Law. Education Law and certain other laws, Senate printing No. 613, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on the review of the Act. The votes on the other laws will be held at the end of the first part of this Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Passenger Name Record Processing. The text of the Act is contained in print No 616 and the report of the Commission In print No 616 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 13 January 2022 amending the Act on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 14 January 2022. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 19 January 2022, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act of... on the amendment of the Act on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data. The Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 13 January 2022 amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act, rejects that law. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act is a governmental submission and amends the Act of 9 May 2018 on Passenger Name Record Processing which implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record Data to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crime. The purpose of the amendment set out in the explanatory memorandum is to introduce rules aimed at reducing the negative financial consequences for air carriers resulting from penalties in respect of infringements of the obligations relating to the transmission of passenger data by creating legal conditions allowing the possibility of imposing the penalties in question and reducing administrative obligations to be spread over a longer period of time. These changes are the granting of the power to impose penalties for infringements also to border guards commandants, to cover more than 1 infringement procedure and to introduce a five-year limitation period in place of the existing three-year limitation period. The discussion asked a lot of questions relevant to the subject matter of this law. It was asked about the scale of negligence both on the part of the Border Guard and on the part of carriers. The nature of these changes, which were already defined at the outset as changes to the fiscal objective, was asked. They also asked why these changes were suddenly made. In addition, the question was whether solutions could lead to suspension or withdrawal of penalties due to the difficult situation of carriers, especially today, at a time of pandemic. The Senate Legislative Office expressed doubts in its opinion as regards the achievement of the intended objective through the proposed amendments, as well as the concern that the Act in its current form could cause major additional losses to the aviation industry. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Bartosz Grodecki, present at the meeting of the two committees, assured the government of the good intentions for the proposed changes, informed that any decisions relating to the possibility of suspension or abolition of penalties would depend on the interpretation presented by the European Commission, which the Ministry requested. At the same time, the government has confirmed that Poland is currently the leader in the implementation of the PNR transfer procedure in Europe and the system is functioning flawlessly, and the problem concerns cases from the past, from 2018 to 2019. The Border Guard representatives present at the meeting provided relevant statistics showing the scale of the infringements. The Border Guard is currently analysing some 30,000 cases of infringements, of which 13,000 have been surrendered and 4,000 penalties imposed. And this is all due to the 110 000 infringements reported since 2018 for the total amount of PLN 4 billion 400 million. The Border Guard also confirmed that, after initial difficulties, the procedure for the transfer of passenger data is smooth and 244 carriers are connected to the system, which is 90% the market. In turn, representatives of the aviation industry, expressing their views on the proposed amendment, drew attention to the genesis and technical and organisational causes of the difficulties and infringements arising, particularly in the initial period, during the implementation phase of the information systems. It also pointed out concerns about the consequences and risks to the aviation industry in the event of the entry into force of the proposed changes in the current form, since the objective of the explanatory memorandum to the Act would be different from that of the intended internship, as the Continent would gain an additional 2 years for imposing and enforcing penalties, and the aviation industry would suffer massive losses and there would be massive initiation of cases and enforcement of penalties. The negative opinion for the proposed submission was presented in writing by the Association of Regional Airports and the Office of the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. In addition, with the request for assistance to airlines on many levels, including by suspending the imposition of fines, the International Air Carrier Association, IATA, requested the Government. After the discussion and after hearing the views of all stakeholders, in the absence of any clarification of the solutions satisfying both the government and the aviation industry, the committees adopted a motion to reject the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. At this point I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Convention, I have committed the marshals to follow the regime for 1 minute to ask questions, because lately there is a bad tradition, so to speak, making statements first and then asking questions, which usually lasts just over 2 minutes and prolongs the discussion. The Marshals will receive the voice and turn off the microphone. Do any of you have a question for the senator? Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u6	Ms Senator, did the airline representatives present at the committee's meeting point out that the way the directive was implemented in Poland poses a real risk that some Polish air carriers will redirect air traffic to airports adjacent to our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u7	Such concerns were expressed. All the more so in view of the fact that only 3 penalties, 2 in Bulgaria and 1 in Lithuania have been imposed throughout Europe. This is likely due to other regulations in the law which implements the EU Directive, where a slightly different solution is used than the imposition of financial penalties only.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u8	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? At this point, I would like to welcome the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Bartosz Grodecki. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Dear Mr Marshal! Thank you very much...]] Well, maybe I'll have a pep talker, if you don't mind... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Yes? Good. Thank you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u9	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! First of all, thank you very much for coming to our request and rescinding our point, considering it as the first point. In addition to the Senator's speech... As a matter of principle, with regard to the government's intention to make this amendment, the senator has made a very good point of reference. I would like to repeat what I said at the committee meeting: our intention is not to punish airlines. However, I would like to remind you that the implementation of the directive does not leave too much legislative margin in our legal system, i.e. the directive is being implemented or not, literally. The translation of the EU Directive is simply transferred to the ground of law in literal terms. Art. 14 directives left no doubt about the imposition of sanctions. Hence such conditions. As regards the reference to other Member States, the question is whether the Member States implemented this Directive properly or fully. But there is already a question to be examined by the European Commission. In addition, I would just like to say that we did indeed address the European Commission yesterday with the question of whether, given that sanctions have essentially fulfilled their role, i.e. 99% carriers are already connected to the system, it is possible to refrain from imposing those sanctions which have been imposed on carriers properly in the years 2018 to 20201, and whether this will not be a breach of the Directive. This is the opinion we are waiting for from the European Commission, we have addressed to the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, Commissioner Ylva Johansson, and after obtaining the opinion we will be able to address this and continue to process the project. This project we are proposing is, let's say, an intermediate project between the facts and what we can expect in terms of the position of the European Commission. I already know that two amendments have been tabled to the proposal, so, I understand, because of the procedure, the draft goes back to the committee and we will continue to lean on it in the committee of local government and home affairs. That's actually as much as it takes to complete the senator's speech. Once again, I would stress that, as I said, it is not our will to punish airlines, on the contrary, hence extending the term. The airlines would like to be sure that these penalties will not actually be imposed, hence their demands for the suspension of these penalties until they have received this opinion from the European Commission. We will work to get it released as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Senator Czerwiński...]] Mr. Senator... Who's first? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The short question is, what would happen if this motion for rejection, the motion put forward by the committee, had the Senate voted, and the Sejm had not rejected it? Then we wouldn't have made that recipe. What would this do for Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u12	You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Mrs. Marshal, may I please?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u13	Thank you very much. This would mean that the Chief Border Guard would have no other choice but to impose those penalties, as this three-year period was almost over and the non-imposition of penalties would have resulted in the consequences of the criminal code. So the commandant as an organ would have no choice but to make decisions about these penalties. That is why, in this initial project, we proposed that this time should be postponed by 2 years until, as I said, the European Commission's opinion on the imposition of these penalties for the period during which the carriers were connected to the system. If, as I said, the European Commission will issue those penalties for the previous period of the opinion, according to which this will not be a breach of the directive, we will, at a later stage, proceed on this. Thank you very much. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u14	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm gonna ask because without this...]] Mr. Senator, but let me... [[Yes?]] ...to let you speak again. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u15	So, in short, this law improves the situation of carriers, they may not pay those penalties. And if it's not accepted, then you're gonna have to enforce it. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u16	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u17	Yes, Mr. Senator. In our view, these solutions will result in these penalties not being imposed now. Well, like I said, this period is passing. We have two years for this, so far the chief of staff will not impose these penalties. We have time for the European Commission to take the floor to take a position on this. That was the intention of preparing this initial project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Isn't it that the European Commission has nothing to say about punishing or enforcing penalties? Isn't it that she's only interested in whether the directive is being implemented and not how many penalties have been imposed by individual Member States? That's the first question. Two. As you have already improved this bill so well, please make it clear, precisely, who is the bad one, since you are now repairing it, in which year it was and which Minister presented its draft at the time. And the third question. If we're moving the directive... Since you are saying today that we have asked the European Commission how it is implemented, whether it can be carried out differently or 26 other European countries correctly introduced it This is a question for the European Commission Tell me what you were following. All the other countries of the European Union have introduced this directive in such a way that today there are no penalties imposed and proceedings... [[Timer signal]] ...implemented in Poland includes 4 billion zlotys of penalties, which may be imposed on carriers. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] In conclusion, what were you doing if you understood the directive differently from all the other 26 countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u21	Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, The Act was prepared in 2018 and the Directive is of 2016. The law was therefore adopted 2 years after the adoption of the Directive within the time limit laid down by the law. The directive has been implemented by us in an appropriate and complete manner. The bill is very good, as I said at the outset, because it fulfilled its function. Yeah, 99%. The carriers are connected. Like Senator Matecka said, we're here right now. In addition to France and the UK, which introduced these systems much earlier, the leader in this matter. However, at this point in time, i.e. in a pandemic situation, it took more time for carriers to connect to the system, so we felt it was worthwhile to improve this law in order to extend this time and so that the European Commission could take a stand against its own directive and Article. 14 Defining directly sanctioning and defining how these sanctions would be applied. The penalties would be proportionate but also dissuasive, which is literally written in the Directive. As I said, during the implementation of the directives we do not have too much margin on our own interpretation of their provisions. I am unable to say now, a country after country, why one country has implemented this directive and the other not, because, as the senator rightly pointed out, this is a subject for the European Commission. The European Commission will examine whether the Directive has been fully implemented in an appropriate manner, and it is the European Commission that is taking appropriate action towards the Member State. We understand the intentions of the European Commission and, as I said, the sanctions that have been enshrined in the Act have fulfilled their role, but now, in order to ease the airlines, we have proposed such a solution, not another, so as not to punish them within this time limit and to develop a position and to obtain the opinion of the European Commission as to whether the possible abolition of penalties already imposed would result in a breach of the directive. I hope that we will receive such a position as soon as possible and we will return to this project in order to resolve this matter comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Eve Matecka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, please tell me whether the change that the government is now proposing to the bill has been well consulted with the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u24	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u25	Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, The law itself was consulted with the aviation industry, but the interest of the industry at the time of the drafting of this law was not very great. Due to the fact that, as I said, we are in contact with industry representatives, which gives the result in the form, I understand, to make today 2 amendments to this bill... I understand that this law is coming back to the committee and we are leaning on it again in such a way that we can solve this problem in a complementary manner today and return to it later, after having obtained the relevant opinion of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Joanna Sekuła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u27	I have a quick question. I would like to know when you sent a letter to the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, a letter to the European Commission was signed and sent yesterday, but earlier we consulted with the Minister for European Affairs, who pointed out in his opinion that the abolition could constitute a breach of the directive in question. As this doubt was raised by the Minister responsible for European affairs, we spoke to the Commission itself and did so yesterday. Yesterday the letter was sent to the Permanent Representation and to the Justice and Home Affairs Commission itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u31	Dear Minister, I would like to ask, because you are referring here to a request and a letter from an international organisation of carriers, which is the scale of penalties imposed on Polish carriers in relation to penalties imposed on carriers from other European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u32	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: As far as numbers are concerned, I will allow myself to cast my vote to the representative of the Border Guard.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u33	Colonel Arkadiusz Matyjasik, I am Deputy Director of the Operations and Investigation Board at the Main Command of the Border Guard. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Polish carriers, the penalties were imposed only on LOT, which, in fact, connected within the time limit laid down in the Act, i.e. during the adjustment period, i.e. within the first 6 months of the Act's validity, but only connected in the field of cruise flights, and did not connect in the field of charter flights. In view of these infringements, the first decisions to impose a penalty have been issued. The amounts that have been imposed are about PLN 2 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u35	I'd like to ask. I asked about penalties imposed on Polish carriers, but I am also talking about the relationship between Polish carriers to carriers from other countries, say, to French, German and Italian carriers. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] Is it common... Is the request for correction widely accepted, or is it a question of the Polish carrier?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u36	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mariusz Cichomski, Director of the Public Order Department, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The extent of the potential sanctions against carriers is overwhelmingly higher for foreign carriers, compared to the estimated total of about 4 billion or more in the case of Polish carriers, in the case of them it is about 60.70 million. Therefore, the difference here is very large, so that this applies primarily to foreign carriers. However, as previously indicated, in the case of Polish carriers we have this charter situation. However, from the point of view of the whole potential scale of the threat of sanctions, Polish guides are in a definite minority. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u39	I would also like to ask the Minister whether similar legislative procedures are taking place in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u40	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u41	Mr. Senator, I can only answer the question of penalties imposed. As the Senator rapporteur said, they are 3. But whether this is the result of the legal system in force in the Member State concerned or the issue of the implementation of a directive which will be of interest to the European Commission, I am not able to answer. Since we are talking about sanctions that we had to implement directly and put directly from the directive into the law, I would like to inform you that as far as the Code of Administrative Procedure is concerned, we did not have a very large range of options, that is, we could not issue an instruction, because according to the Polish Code of Administrative Procedure, instruction is not a sanction. So we had to limit these sanctions to administrative penalties. For a good cause, we had a choice of two sanctions that would fit the whole process, and this is a zero-one process, that is, there is no big investigation or evidence, because the air carrier either sends letters or does not pass them. We didn't even have the possibility of entering a record that the chief may waive sanctioning, because he would have to accept some objective indication as to whether or not a particular airline would punish or not, at a time when the airline simply or simply transmits data or not. So we had two sanctions, i.e. the withdrawal of the licence, in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure, or the imposition of financial penalties. I will also immediately mention that the financial penalties provided for by Polish legislation are not the largest in the European Union. Our punishment is $20,000 for not giving 1 list. A usually consists of 2 lists, i.e. a booking list and a check-in list. Let me just give you an example that Ireland has provided sanctions of EUR 250 000, Germany EUR 50 000, Luxembourg EUR 50 000, Italy EUR 5 to 100 000, Czech Republic EUR 20 000. The fact that these countries do not yet impose these penalties or have deviated from the imposition, probably, as I said, results either from their legal system, according to which written instruction to the airline may constitute a sanction or from the failure to implement the full directive. And our intention, as I said at the outset, is just to ease the airline by introducing solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u42	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question? Thank you. No further questions. I have a huge request to all your senators to silence their cell phones, and if there is a need to talk, please leave, because we hear all of these conversations here and it is very disturbing. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To begin with, I would like to thank the representatives of the Association of Regional Airports very warmly for the fact that they stood up to the task, unlike the government that implemented the directive so that today we have a huge problem. As regards the legal context, I also thank the authorities of the Łódź Airport at this point. Władysław Reymont, who prepared a detailed and comprehensive position in this area. As for the way in which the directive is implemented, we need to look at it from the legal side of the European Union, and the European Commission does not want to impose penalties. The European Commission was committed to implementing the European Union Directive as an act of secondary law of the European Union. The task of national legislators, i.e. Member States, is to transpose EU legislation into national law. You, as the government, are responsible for how you transposed. You did it in a terrible way, you did it in such a way that today we actually have a huge problem. I'm against rejecting this bill because it wouldn't solve the problem. Here's where I thank you, Senator, for working with me. We're gonna make adjustments saving the situation because the government hasn't stood up to the task. If it weren't for your inability to implement the directive, we wouldn't have a problem today. You have to be very clear about that. The European Union leaves the Member States free to choose the means and methods to achieve these objectives. If the Minister understands its literal translation as the only way to implement the directive, I propose to change the legal service of the Ministry because we are facing further problems. Now I'm moving on to substantive issues. Poland's implementation of the Directive, as opposed to how it was implemented in other European countries In a very restrictive and rigid manner, air carriers shall determine the terms and conditions for the transmission and processing of Passenger Name Record Data. You tied your own hands. And don't shed tears today, you don't say that punishments are higher in Germany or Ireland. Somehow it turns out that they are not imposed there, and with us procedures are initiated. This causes in practice to impose penalties on all airlines operating in Poland, these serious players. These penalties are, of course, for an earlier period when implementation was only in progress. And of course we can be glad today that the law has fulfilled its role, that we are a leader in the sense of achieving the objectives set out in the law, but you yourself have noticed that there are countries such as France that have achieved the same goal without such draconian methods. The provisions of the Polish law do not give in practice any effective tools to withdraw from the imposition of a penalty. You're the ones who made the recipes. They didn't write them, dwarf. Practice shows however It could have been predicted. In the transfer of data, there were, especially in the first period, minor, unintentional errors for which you are imposing millions of penalties on carriers today. You are now proposing amendments to a law so defectively implementing the directive. But there are no amendments that are supposed to loosen the directive, because you say yourself that you are unable to understand it... that you do not understand it except through the provisions that you have already made. Today's amendments are designed, in fact, not to loosen the way in which penalties are imposed, but to extend the period during which penalties may be imposed from the current three to five years. We, of course, propose better solutions in our amendments. The senator will be discussing them in a moment. The current administrative procedures, as we have already learned... The estimated penalties imposed are about PLN 4 billion. The entry into force of an amendment extending the possibility of punishment will, in my opinion, have one only consequence The contraction of the aviation market in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, in this room there are senators from all places in the country, those who use, just as residents of the voivodship data, from airports in Szczecin, Wrocław, Poznań, Rzeszów and Łódź. I've only mentioned these cities for example. What are you doing? You've made such a mess in the regional aviation market that we really need to look for solutions now. And if you had people who know this market and not just literally prescribe directives, we wouldn't have such problems today. Ladies and gentlemen, the aviation market in Europe is a complicated mechanism. And it is not that the best professionals from the aviation market in Poland are e.g. The Border Guard. Many passengers will get on a train or a car and go to such disliked airports in Berlin. I say publicly: this way of implementing the directive was lobbying the interests of airports from countries that are neighbouring us. Because on the one hand, you say you want to build a CPK, develop air traffic here. But airports don't fly. If I say so, you're gonna kill the carriers that use them, even if you build this CPK, we're gonna be able to just watch it, not fly it. I would also like to remind you that the reduction of air traffic over the Polish airspace will also result in a drastic decrease in revenues of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, whose activities I think you've forgotten that. It is financed mainly by charges from all carriers operating in the Polish sky. I ignore that even on LOT, on your own company of the State Treasury you imposed these penalties on LOT, which, like other carriers, hardly rises after a dramatic decline. And it hasn't been rebuilt yet. A dramatic decrease in the number of passengers using the airline, which is a consequence of a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not even know that the risk of limiting this passenger traffic is also a risk of reducing cargo traffic, because you seem to forget that the vast majority of air cargo traffic is carried out on board passenger ships. If you don't know that, I'll let you know. Limiting this traffic will cause disruptions in the supply chain and their shift to neighbouring countries, to airports in close proximity to Poland. Quite recently Prime Minister Morawiecki said: pandemic will make it necessary to shorten the supply chain and there is a chance that some of it will move to Poland. Today, your actions have led to the fact that everyone, even semi-conscious, big producer or big company, will wonder whether regulations that apply in Poland do not pile up difficulties, do not limit, do not just hinder the delivery of supplies in this supply chain through the use of air cargo traffic. Think coolly, without emotion. What's it like... You say you have implemented the directive well, but all the other countries have implemented it in such a way that they do not have this problem today. If someone goes, looks around and thinks there is sun, but the first, the second, the third person or, as in the case of the European Union, 25 countries outside Poland say: "Sir, it is raining, so why don't you spread this umbrella, apologize to those who have made a mess, and let's look together for a way out of the situation." I dedicate to you the fairy tale of Ignacy Krasicki, who is many years old: among my dear friends the hare dogs ate. One thing I ask of you is that you no longer follow the airline's interests, because you care so much about them that in a moment there will be no air traffic over Poland if we leave it in your hands. We're about to propose amendments. I expect one thing, that the government will see to it that these amendments are accepted not only by the Senate, but also by the Sejm, and that we will stop with the embarrassment you have led to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. Please address Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As if to continue with the Senator's speech, I would say that there was indeed a motion for rejection at the committee's meeting, but this was mainly because we could not find an amendment that would be acceptable both by the Senate, by carriers and by the Sejm. I am about to hand over to your marshal on behalf of Senator Matecka, Senator Sekuła and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, and I will make such corrections. I also know that Senator Komorowski has tabled amendments with similar content. I hope that at the committee meeting to be held, we will do our utmost to ensure that the carriers who could actually be harmed here are satisfied with these solutions. May I just say that the proposed amendments will allow a suspension for a period of 2 years which has been initiated so far for carriers to impose penalties. But we must remember that this applies both to these proceedings from the years 2018 to 2020 but also to possible new proceedings. It's positive. What do we know from the Minister and the Border Guard? That there are no more such negligence. It's comforting. We hope that we will all continue to be able to use our airports and airlines and to travel safely and that carriers will not have any additional obstacle to rebuilding their companies after difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Janusz Gromek, Mariusz Gromko have made their speeches... [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: More...]] ...in the debate for the protocol. Please? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: I Senator Janusz Pęcherz.]] And Senator Janusz Bladder. I'm sorry, but it wasn't added. These senators have made their speeches in the debate on the protocol. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted in writing by the senators Marek Komorowski, Halina Bieda, Ewa Matecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Joanna Sekuła. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Dear Mrs Marshal, Ladies and Gentlemen, regarding the substantive layer, no, because I think everything has already been said here. And as far as political issues are concerned, it's not really my role, so I'm leaving it the way it is. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the second agenda: the Passport Documents Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 615 and the report of the committee In print No 615 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is my pleasure to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on Passport Documents - Senate Printing No 615. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the above-mentioned committee on 14 January. The committee held its meeting on 19 January 2022. [[Talking in the O.R.]] After considering the bill, the Commission requests that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please do not disturb the senator.]] ...the high senate approved the attached draft resolution. The subject of this bill... In fact, it is a completely new legislation on passport documents. The existing Act of 13 July 2006 on passport documents, the Journal of the Laws of 2020 and 2021, was adopted due to the need to introduce biometric data into Polish passports, i.e. the face and fingerprints of fingerprints. This act has been amended on several occasions, but despite the changes made in the broader scope of the facilitations for citizens under the existing rules, it has not been possible to meet all social expectations arising from changing socio-legal conditions. Over the last several years, the process of migration of citizens has changed significantly, which is not only about changing the permanent residence, but is largely due to tourist needs and the fulfilment of professional duties of Polish citizens. Finally, an important change has been made in the relationship between administration and the citizen, which is currently focusing on the aim of maximum simplification of administrative procedures and their computerisation. Citizens, as consumers of public services, expect efficient, modern and fast service, maximum simplification of administrative procedures, as well as taking into account the individual needs of each of them. In view of these circumstances, including the need to meet social expectations regarding the availability of passport documents and the need to strengthen the security of passport documents issued, the government considered it necessary to make major changes to the passport issuing system, which would improve and simplify the process of applying for the document and increase its security, and proposed a number of solutions. I will list here the most important solutions worth paying attention to. The first is the construction of a new Register of Passport Documents, i.e. the EDP, and the liquidation of the Central Register of issued and cancelled Passport Documents. The new central register will allow faster circulation of information, provide reference data and access to active data for all passport authorities. Above all, the authorities will gain access to the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil State and the PESEL register. Further: entering data in the register directly by means of an appropriate application and not, as has been the case so far, through local databases, which will reduce the duplication of personal data collected in several registers. The amendment of the method of submitting the application for a document will make it possible to waive the paper version of the application for a passport document for an electronic application. Next: to facilitate the confirmation of identity and citizenship. Here are some very important solutions. The following electronic services, such as verification of the validity of the passport, are envisaged. Once the specific passport document is entered, it will be possible to obtain information as to whether the document is valid or not. Checking your personal data will have access to your personal data in the GDP and to information about passport documents issued to you. The cancellation of the passport of the holder who lost the passport will be able to report the loss of the passport and such notification will result in the automatic cancellation of the passport. In addition, it will be possible to notify the citizen of changes in the status of the passport document via the contact data register, sending notifications to citizens, e.g. the impending expiry date, the cancellation or the possibility of receipt of documents. An application for a passport for a child, mother and father, carers, will be given the opportunity to apply for a passport for a child who is under 12 years of age. The consent of the parent to the passport for the child Further: details of the provisions of the Act on the construction of passport booklets and the scope of data in passport documents, harmonisation of the age limit of 12 years related to the validity of the passport and the need for signature, systematization of passport fees and at the same time the identification of the catalogue of persons entitled to a reduced passport fee on the part of the citizen. Another solution: simplifying the procedure for applying for a second passport. There is a complete transfer of the task of issuing second passports to voivodships and consuls, as well as extending the validity of second passports to 3 years. Another solution is the issue of temporary passports by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration due to the important interests of the State. Temporary passports of office in the country This matter will be dealt with by a voivode or the Minister for the Interior. Next: the possibility of issuing a temporary passport to a person who already has a valid passport, a passport document. This change concerns the situation of persons residing abroad who have crossed the border on the basis of an ID card and have lost it while travelling and at the same time have issued a valid passport, but do not have it on their journey. The extension of the catalogue of entities authorised to hold a temporary passport concerns the issue of a passport to minors who, in connection with the continuation of their studies, the development of individual skills or the need to provide them with care must urgently go abroad. This will allow the issue of a temporary passport to minors in the event of departure, e.g. for competition, competition, etc. Further: clarification of the provisions on judicial decisions on the authorisation of the passport document to minors, new forms of declaration of loss of passport document and the single instance of proceedings for refusal and annulment of the passport document at the request of the competent authorities. In such cases, the party will have the right to bring an action directly before the administrative court. There is also a mandate for public officials to arrest invalid passport documents and a mandate for border guards to physically cancel passport documents marked as invalid. That's most of the records. There are a few more of them, but I have chosen, in my opinion, the most important issues that have been settled in this law. The Sejm passed a law at its forty-sixth meeting on 13 January 2022. The draft law was a government submission, a Parliamentary printing no. 1833. The draft proposed by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs supported 396 Members, against 25 Members and 20 abstentions. During the committee's work, following the presentation of the main principles of the Act by Deputy Minister Chief Executive, the chairman of the committee asked the chief legislator Renata Bronowska to present the Bureau's comments on the bill. Practically most of the amendments tabled here by the Bureau, a total of 7 amendments out of 9, accepted government representatives and were also adopted by the committee in a vote. After these explanations there were practically no senators willing to discuss, except Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who asked about the possibility of electronic transmission of documents, asked if it would work for sure. High Izbo, on behalf of the committee, please adopt this law together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u49	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you have spoken such a technical and administrative language, and I would like to know what will make it easier for an ordinary citizen to implement this law. I understand that in general the point is that remotely he will be able to deal with a number of issues related to the issue, the certification of the passport document. If you were to mention in three points what this bill would give to an ordinary citizen...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u50	Mr. Senator, yes, I will. Of course, I used the language that is in the bill, and that is certainly the way it needs to be done. And in general, I think the ministry will speak, too, if I said too much, the minister wouldn't have anything to say. That an ordinary citizen would actually be able to file passport documents remotely while sitting at home and having a laptop or computer. That's the most important thing. It will also be able to submit by electronic means all the annexes necessary for its issue. At some point, however, he will have to appear at the passport office. Thus, in general, it would also be a matter of making more of these offices, the places where passports are issued. Today they are in voivodship cities and delegations. But, as far as I know, and at the committee meeting, and at the Sejm meeting, attention was paid to bringing it closer. As far as I know, the government's entire operation is going in this direction to make these places more, but not all at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u52	But according to what criteria? Was there any mention at the committee's meeting of how this extension would go? I understand that where there are delegation offices in the voivodship. But is it going to reach the level of the counties, or is it unlikely?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u53	No, it wasn't at the committee meeting, Senator. But as far as I can tell from the Seym and from the government's statements, I think the government will confirm it. It appears that it will be going in such a way that at least in the powiats these matters can be handled.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u54	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to speak? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the Minister of Superintendent. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I think the Senator rapporteur has discussed issues relating to the new passport law very widely. I would like to add to this statement, so as not to duplicate some of the things that have been said here, that as far as this law is concerned, it actually creates new technical solutions. And in detail, I can say that when it comes to the verification of the validity of the passport, the declaration of loss resulting in the cancellation of the passport, it will be possible to do so electronically, it will be possible to report the loss of the passport document resulting in the automatic cancellation of the document. It will also be possible, as part of an e-service, to give an electronic consent by one of the parents to issue a passport to the child in the presence of the other parent. This is extremely important. It is very common for parents to stay in two different places. I think it's also important that you no longer need to fill out a paper application, which due to the specific dimensions and weight of paper is available today only in the passport body, there is no possibility download it online. Right now, it's just that you have to go to the office and fill out the application. A citizen who, after the entry into force of this law, applies to the office for the purpose of drawing up a passport document will receive on the device all his data already completed and will only have to sign. This will also shorten the application process for a passport for citizens. Given that European rules provide that, as part of the security of trade, personal documents and passports may be produced in a situation where, when applying, a citizen must leave fingerprints and later on issue, he must also leave fingerprints to check whether it is the same person who lodges the application and receives the document, there is no possibility of electronic submission of an application via the Internet. Looking to the future and answering your senators' potential further questions, I will also answer Senator Jackowski's questions, which were asked in the earlier round. Ladies and gentlemen, today this is 16 different passport records. Thanks to these technical solutions, 1 system of passport registers will be available. This is the first step towards a future level of self-government when it comes to issuing passports. So far it's been like this. Only in the voivodship offices were fingerprint devices. Now they're also in the municipal offices because of the fact that the identity cards are taken in a similar way. So we already have the right equipment at the municipal offices. We will have 1 register in a moment, which is the first step in making it possible for all citizens to make it easier to apply for a passport document, so that this can be done not only in the voivodship offices or delegations, but also in the local authorities. Today, in many powiats this can be done because by agreement of the regional office and district government, the powiats make available the appropriate place in the county office. By agreement, the powiats transfer the posts and the office of the voivodship transfers the equipment. This can be done in many places today, but indeed many locals, who are not on the rights of the county, are not allowed to submit it to the municipal office. We want this to be done as close as possible to the citizen in the future, so we meet the expectations here. I think that the solutions we adopt in the bill are such a first step in achieving that it is as close as possible to the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u57	Thank you very much. Minister, a brief first question. How will it be in time... What does the government think? When will it be? It would be fantastic if any citizen could pick up a passport document in their community. How is this to be understood? Is this a process with some kind of schedule, or is that such an ideal goal, an assumption that we're going to be heading towards? That's the first question. Two. Would the Minister like to elaborate on parents who have different residences as a result of different circumstances of their lives and who would like to produce a passport document for their child? I'd like to understand that well. Does one need to appear in person and the other one can submit it online? What's it going to be like for parents like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u58	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u59	The Act provides for the possibility of an electronic consent by one of the parents. Indeed, one parent will be able to give such consent electronically, without unnecessary paperwork and without unnecessary movement. He will not have to be physically present or physically fill out documents. It will be an e-service that can be realized. This will undoubtedly make it easier in a globalised world, when very often one parent, even for job-related reasons, must be out of residence. This will undoubtedly be an easy one. One parent may be present during passport-making activities. That's the first line. Second line. There's no specific schedule for this moment. We assume that the entry into force of the passport register, which provides for the bill, will be the first step here. Then we will examine how it all looks from the technical point of view, as this register will become operational. We're gonna judge that. It is certainly not an issue that can be realised within a few months, but ultimately, because it will not generate additional costs associated with the purchase of fingerprint readers... It's a subject that you can't really... I mean, it was unrealistic because of the systems, because of the fingerprint readers. Today we open up the possibility of analysis when we have 1 register of passport systems.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u61	Minister, at the committee meeting, I received an answer to my question as to whether the documents could be delivered electronically. The proposal itself will be in electronic form, but I mean other documents. Is there a document that you know will have to be delivered in a traditional form? The application is submitted in electronic form. Fingerprint download It is known that it is necessary to be personally in order to do so. But will the citizen have to deliver a document in person, or will all documents in principle be delivered in electronic form?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u62	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u63	As a rule, Senator, the bill goes in such a way that it can be done in electronic form. However, due to the number of cases connected with, for example, the loss of a passport abroad or the various situations that appear today in a globalised world, I would be unwise if I told you that there would be no such situation. Because if that happens somewhere, you could say I misled you. In principle, the direction is that many documents can be submitted electronically.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I was interested in the issue of the place of birth, because this is one of the leading data that is placed in the passport. The same is true of personal evidence. How is it with birthplaces of people who still live among us, born in areas that do not currently enter the area of the Polish state? What's the procedure? Because in the case of localities in Poland it is used the current name. How about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u66	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u67	This law does not change anything about this. It's the same as in other papers. And this law, in these cases, kind of sustains the existing solutions. As for the specific names... 'Cause he's probably walking around. about the citizens who were born in today's Ukraine, right? Or in others... I'll try to answer you in writing, in detail. Since this is not a new solution, I would like to answer you in detail in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u68	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal, let me ask you a question. I'll tell you what that question is about. One day, there was a summer person on my shift who had a piece of evidence on her. And then there was this little piece of paper evidence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm I mean. the name of the locality and the ZSR. And she was outraged. She said she wasn't born in the Soviet Union. She was right, by the way. Question: Is this procedure still in use? What's it like right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u70	Of course not. This is about a town, a place of birth in the sense of the village. But, as I said to Senator Tyszkiewicz earlier, let's say, there are many different cases, which are very often also from the position of the Central Office are unpredictable. It is impossible to predict how officials at another level will behave. And I would like to answer that question on the basis of the experience of our department with regard to such comments. We will therefore examine this subject and answer you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u72	Minister, will we ultimately have an unlimited passport system, or will it only be valid for a limited period of time?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u73	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u74	In the end, the law duplicates the solutions that have been so far. Thus, in connection with, for example, the updating of personal data, as well as the updating of biometric data resulting from the photo, it is a requirement that these are temporary documents. This is not only our solution, but it is also the result of European legislation on personal evidence. We also had a question of issuing personal evidence to people over the age of 70. Because, of course, we would like them to be spent for more than 10 years or indefinitely. But since these are documents that entitle the movement between national borders, between countries, they are also subject to requirements for international documents that allow them to move in such a way. And they set certain standards. Therefore, this law is also adapted to these requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u75	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. This law provides for a great deal of solutions that benefit citizens from bureaucratic requirements. In this respect, it is more modern than the recent amendments, which, if I recall correctly, have been in force since October or November last year. And for this reason, the law absolutely deserves our common vote for yes. However, there is one thing that you are going away from that will be different from what you have done so far, which has raised a lot of controversy, although not in the whole of society, but in a group for which we should have special consideration, because it is a minority. Since this is such controversy and the previous records of such controversy have not aroused, it is to return to them. Besides, the Minister, speaking here today, did not once use the wording of the new submission. You always spoke the language of the previous statements: one parent, one parent, parent, parent. You never said mother or father. Therefore, taking these matters into account, I have tabled on behalf of myself, but also Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka and Senator Wojciech Necessary, the appropriate amendments which I am asking for. I also ask that we consider the bill with this amendment at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I, of course, am very positive about this bill, because it implements these demands, including those of the local government, who submitted their comments and asked for as many activities as possible, if this can be done in electronic form. Thus, the law is moving in the right direction and is aiming to ensure that all matters, in this case the application for a passport, are handled in full in electronic form. There won't be any need... The more electronic documents there are... There will be no need to issue them, which will reduce costs when data or documents are sucked out of the system. It's also about storage. Electronic storage is much cheaper than paper storage, so the direction is as appropriate as possible. I would like to remind you that we worked in the Senate in December 2020 on a very, very similar bill, which concerned amendments to the Law on Civil Status. I have information that the Ministry is working on our project, which is in the Sejm, which I am very happy about. I hope that we will jointly introduce these changes, the very positive changes that we voted on in the Senate, as I said, in December 2020. At the time, I do not hide, in our discussions the government was not very keen to address our proposals for change. Maybe this was also due to the need to convert systems, time issues, because the changes that are taking place are quite significant. One would like to say: better late than never. So that I am very happy that we will work together on this bill in the Seym. I hope she gets pushed through. The more changes of this type, the better for the citizen. If, in the case of passports, the citizen who lives abroad can handle the matter electronically, the better if he can submit documents electronically, the better. And it would be good for a citizen, for example. living in London and wanting a short copy of the birth certificate, he didn't have to fly from London to Warsaw to get in line and... This isn't about money anymore, because it costs about 20 zlotys, if I'm not mistaken, to extract such a document. So if we go in this direction together, that many of these activities can be done electronically, the better. This will relieve not only the citizen who will not have to stand in queues and waste time, but also the officials, our civil office officials in local governments, who will be able to take care of something else. So the direction is as appropriate as possible. I do not hide that I was prepared to make the amendment that I have, but after discussions with government representatives I decided that I would not make this amendment. This amendment is intended to cover the possibility for the consul to issue a complete copy and a summary copy of the civil status certificates and a certificate of civil status from the civil status records, because the consul will have this information. They will be in the database, there will be no need to extract these certificates, say, from our offices and pass them to the consul. But I understand that it takes time, for example, to make changes in information systems. Today we are unable to determine whether this will last for three months or four, and I am therefore withdrawing from this amendment. I hope that by working together on the bill that is in the Seym, which I mentioned earlier, we voted here in the Senate in 2020, we will do exactly the opposite. Here we are working on the Passport Act and there are amendments to the Civil Status Act, we would have to make these changes here, and when we are working on the Civil Status Act, we will make changes to the Passport Act so that the consul can issue such certificates. Thank you very much. So I congratulate you again on this bill. We're on the same team. It doesn't happen often, but in this case, we're on the same team. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I also inform you that the senators Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Benjamin Godyla, Halina Bieda presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Wojciech Kończny and Magdalena Kochan. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... I'm sorry. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! High Izbo! I think it is worth commenting on this amendment, on the proposal that Senator Kochan presented. I would like to say that the contested provision in the law, which boils down to the fact that, every time it comes to parents, they are included in the act of mother and father, this is a provision proposed by the Government's Legislative Centre, which leads to the harmonisation of concepts within the entire Polish legislation, where according to the family code and caring parents are the mother and father. At the same time, I would like to reassure you about some of the doubts that the senator also expressed. A Polish national, no matter what family he or she is born in, has the right to receive his/her identity card and passport. And this is the duty of the State, regardless of what anyone has entered in a foreign birth certificate, because this applies primarily to foreign birth certificates, regardless of what parents are entered in a foreign birth certificate. The Polish State is the interpretation of administrative courts, this is also the interpretation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which is transmitted to all issuing offices of passports and personal evidence Everyone in our country will be given their ID card and passport. And this regulation, which harmonises the concept of parents as a mother and a father, in no way will affect any citizen of ours, regardless of what family he was born in and what he has in his birth certificate, to be discriminated against in any way by this law. That is what I would like to say in this discussion today, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of the Consumers of Gas Fuels in view of the situation on the gas market. The text of the Act is contained in print No 617 and the report of the committee In print No 617 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Just one more second, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I would like to present a report to the Committee on the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuels in view of the situation on the gas market. The Commission was discussing this law the day before yesterday. On behalf of the government, the bill was presented to the senators by Minister Maciej Wąsik... excuse me, Maciej Małecki Excuse me, Mr. Minister, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. After reading the Act and after discussion, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation adopted the Act together with 22 amendments. These amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau and received the approval of the government party. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation therefore recommends that the High House adopt the law together with the amendments. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the purpose of the bill is to protect households, residents of multi-site buildings and certain vulnerable customers from rapidly rising gas prices. The Act provides for the freezing of gas prices for tariff customers in 2022. The prices of gaseous fuels will be frozen at the level of the ex officio sales tariff fixed for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 by the Energy Regulatory Office. This law also provides that, according to these rates to individual customers... these rates should also apply to residents of housing cooperatives, housing communities, residents of multi-location buildings, including those who have not concluded individual contracts for the purchase of natural gas with energy companies. Tariff protection will be guaranteed to all residents of cooperatives and housing communities, even if the cooperative or community has not so far applied for such protection. By the end of 2023, tariff protection, in addition to cooperatives and housing communities, will also be covered by the so-called vulnerable customers if gas-fuel vendors make a declaration of compliance with the conditions allowing them to be regarded as vulnerable customers. These are among others. hospitals, health centres financed by public funds, welfare homes, children's homes, accommodation houses, schools, kindergartens, nursery clubs, children's clubs, entities forming a system of higher education and science, Churches, religious unions, cultural institutions, NGOs, voluntary fire services, facilities providing 24/7 care to disabled people, chronicly ill seniors, social integration centres, social integration clubs, occupational therapy workshops, NGOs, social cooperatives in the field of The Act provides for solutions that exclude the possibility of increasing gas fuel prices and tariffs in 2022 in gas sales, which... Sorry, the Act excludes the possibility of increasing gas fuel prices and rates in 2022. Gas vendors who do not comply with the obligation to use... [[Mrs. Marshal, would you like some water?]] Please, yes. I don't know what's happening to my throat, but it bothers me, and I'm sure it bothers you. [[Something disturbing, indeed.]] Thank you. Gas vendors who do not comply with the obligation to apply the freezing of prices and rates shall consist of a fine of not less than PLN 1 million and not more than 15% income of the company being punished. The Act also provides for a system of compensation of PLN 10 billion for gas sellers who sell to tariff customers. This will translate into lower accounts for recipients, a reduction by the equivalent of this amount. Compensation will cover the differences between the purchase price of the fuel and the price of the sale by tariff. The State Treasury will guarantee the obligation to sell gas fuels for bonds or loans taken on the domestic or foreign market until 1 January 2026. Compensation will be paid by the Price Difference Payment Fund, to which 40% will be paid. funds from the sale of CO2 allowances in 2022 and funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. In addition, the State Treasury guarantees will be covered 100% borrowings and bonds issued by ex officio sellers and stock exchange companies for the purpose of gas trading. Guarantees are to apply until 1 January 2026 up to PLN 30 billion. As regards the law itself, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very extensive law, very detailed compensation system is described here, which will be granted to gas sellers at tariff rates. There have been questions to the Minister for State Aid and the Minister has resolved these doubts by saying that these compensations will amount to the difference between the purchase price of the gas by the company and the price of the sale on the tariff, so they will only compensate for this difference and therefore this compensation cannot be regarded as State aid. Of course, there were also voices that there should be more actors among the beneficiaries of this law, i.e. vulnerable consumers. In this case, too, it was the Minister's remark that we must be very careful by expanding the catalogue of these recipients, because we can actually only include those entities that do not carry out business activities, or that we can only finance these entities in an area in which they do not carry out business activities, business activities. There have also been various requests and requests to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to expand this catalogue of beneficiaries of the Act, but we, too, after the discussion, considered that this could be a threat to this law, because it will, of course, be assessed by the European Commission in terms of public aid and there is a concern that if we extended the catalogue of beneficiaries, this law could simply be denied by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this law responds to the very high gas prices that occurred last year on the world market, especially on the European market. Of course, there are various reasons why the gas used several hundred percent on European exchanges, and there was even a moment that it used up 1000%. Of course, we know that there are actually several reasons. The main thing is that the demand for gas fuel has increased considerably, which is due to the fact that the global economy, the European economy, the economies of individual European countries are coming out of the crisis caused by the Koravirus caused by the lockdown and are returning to the path of rapid development. Hence the demand for gas fuels, for energy in general, has increased greatly. I do not know what it looks like in the case of gas, but in the case of electricity in Poland, demand in 2021 increased by 14% compared to demand in 2019. And that also applies to energy raw materials. So demand is very high, and there are huge barriers to supply. We know that these supply barriers are the result of such, not another policy pursued by Russia, by Gazprom. We know that we are dealing with a certain blackmail that Gazprom is applying to Europe, especially to Western Europe. We also know at the committee meeting that the high demand for supply is far from sufficient because Gazprom does not deliver the amount of gas that it has undertaken to deliver, and gas warehouses in the European Union are often filled with not even 50%. Besides, as we know, Russia has also stopped gas transmission through some traditional transmission lines, such as the Jamaican pipeline. All of this makes this crisis on the gas market get worse. Therefore, the response to this crisis vis-à-vis customers of individual gas, vis-à-vis households, vis-à-vis housing cooperatives, to people who live in premises managed by housing cooperatives, housing communities, and vulnerable consumers is the act which will make gas prices frozen for all these customers this year, and this particular protection for vulnerable parties will be covered by the end of 2023. There is, of course, hope that by then the gas crisis will be resolved, and if it lasts longer, these specific tools will probably have to be longer to apply. This is, ladies and gentlemen, one of the solutions proposed by the government. We also know about the others. This is a reduction to zero VAT on gas, which is also a reduction of 1/4 of the gas price for small and medium-sized enterprises. These are the tools that the government is proposing when it comes to reacting to high gas prices. There was also, ladies and gentlemen, the question of how these gas prices on the domestic market are related to European prices, the suggestion that we can have a greater impact on how these gas prices look. But it was also said that we are, however, part of the common European market and what is happening on European exchanges is very correlated with what is happening on the stock market in Poland, so we are very sensitive to all the increases that are taking place in Europe. So that, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I would like to recommend that you adopt this law together with 22 amendments, which, as I said, have been proposed by the Legislative Office and have gained full acceptance of the government party, the Ministry of State Assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u83	Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Mr Senator Jan Maria Jackowski One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, was there a discussion at the committee meeting about what would happen to those gas price calculations that the communities have already received at higher rates? How will this case be resolved? Are these resources gonna be... Will it be reinvoked, or will it just have to be paid, and then, when the bill comes in, these prices will be lower? What's the story? Community representatives are asking me about it, so I just want to know if there was a committee meeting on it. Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u85	Yes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u86	Mr. Senator, I don't recall, I don't think that's what we asked the Minister, so I would very much ask you to direct this question to the Minister. Indeed, these gas prices are to apply from 1 January to the end of December, so it seems that this should already be reflected in those accounts that reached the recipients. But I think the Minister will answer this question in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski will ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u88	Thank you very much. Second line. Namely, if in a community that does not have commercial premises, e.g. shop, pharmacy downstairs, some workshop, these kind of premises that are rented commercially, or community is only residential, but there are people in it who conduct business... And there could be two aspects here. One economic activity can take place in a given residential establishment, but it can also be such that someone, for example. he owns a construction company or a taxi driver, and he's only got his business reported there because he has to show it somewhere at some address. Will this be considered an economic activity or not? What's it gonna look like? Was there a speech about that? I'm not asking you right now, Senator, I'm not expecting an answer to that question, I'm just asking if it was considered at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u89	That wasn't the exact question, Senator. I think that they are of course the most legitimate and probably citizens have such questions, so I think they should be redirected to the Minister. Indeed, a private address may at the same time be the address at which the economic activity is registered. The question is, what's going on in that case? I don't want to confabulate here. You can ask the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u90	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u91	Senator, I have a question. I live in an area where there really is a monopoly, there is only PGNiG and, when it comes to gas distribution, we are dependent on one supplier. I have a question as to whether this was considered at the committee meeting. I do not know if you know how much gas is produced in Poland when it comes to gas demand. I'm the one who's gonna answer 'cause you might not know that... [[20%? 22%?]] 22% That's 4 billion m3 of gas. In my territory, we're basically addicted to this high nitrogened gas, right? So this is a much worse quality gas. Unfortunately, infrastructure has not been built in terms of gas supply, let's say, high-calorie. I mean, maybe at the committee meeting it was discussed why the Polish gas used 800% ? I have signals here, of course, from companies, but also from those who supply this gas... [[Timer signal]] ...even though it's housing communities or other entities operating in my territory. Why Polish gas used 800% ? Was there any mention of...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u92	Excuse me. I would ask you to turn off the microphone after the signal that it was a minute, because otherwise we will not be able to enforce time discipline from the senators. I'm asking you to. That's what the marshal said today. At the moment when the minute signal appears, please turn off the microphone. I understand that I can't do this position. I'm asking the senator to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u93	Yes, indeed, Mr. Senator, the president of PGNiG, Mr. Henryk Mucha, spoke briefly on this subject. Indeed, some part of the gas we're extracting in the country. That's 20, 22 or 25%. , different data are given here. But there's no distinction that this is domestic gas. In general demand for gas is simply the domestic part and is exported part, but the whole is subject to those prices which are on the commodity exchange. There's no separation here, where this gas is from, what's its source. [[Voice from the room: Because it is much worse quality.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u94	Thank you very much. [[Yeah, maybe. I'm sure the Minister will answer that question in detail.]] Thank you very much, Senator. You will ask Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u95	Very quickly, in a minute I'll ask two questions. Will those regulations be covered by sports entities within the meaning of the Sports Act of 25 June? These are sports entities in local buildings or with the participation of local authorities. Second quick question. It is about public property, in which local government units carry out basic public services and provide services to citizens and which are, for example, rented from other entities. Will they be covered by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u96	As for the second question, I can't answer it. It is very detailed and I would ask you to ask the Minister. As for the first one, the Minister assured us that the law could also be used by sports organisations which conduct statutory sports activities, but not economic activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I see there are no further questions. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Maciej Małecki, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u98	Dear Marshal, High Senate! A few sentences of introduction, although the rapporteur, Marshal Maria Koc, presented a number of issues that we discussed at the committee meeting very precisely. It's basic. The emergence of a gas crisis, which results in the highest prices of gas for the European Union's customers in history, has no impact on the Polish state, have no influence on Polish companies and have no influence on the Polish economy. This gas crisis that hits the European Union has a face. That's the face. Vladimir Putin. On the one hand, we are seeing a halt to gas supply to Europe, on the other hand, the reduction of gas in European warehouses, a significant part of which is in Russia's hands, and the start-up of the post-pandemic economy. These are the reasons for these record high prices. I'll give you some numbers for comparison. In January last year the gas price for 1 MWh was between 18 and 20 euros. In December last year, at the price summit, there was 187 euros per MWh. That was a thousand times the height. Currently, in January we have prices about 5 times higher than last year. I checked today's prices before entering the speakerium from 74 to 76 euros per MWh. The Kremlin wants to use gas blackmail to settle or force two cases. On the one hand, The agreement to favour the Nord Stream II pipeline, this harmful project, which will violate the free gas market throughout the European Union, which will be a direct threat to our part of Europe, and a powerful threat to Ukraine's security. Why? Because Nord Stream II will allow the gas pipelines that have so far flowed Russian gas to Western Europe, a gas pipeline that passes through Ukraine and a gas pipeline that passes through Belarus; both of these pipelines pass through Polish territory. And then gas will be able to reach the countries of Western Europe without obstacles by gas pipelines. Nord Stream I and Nord Stream II and their land branches OPAL and Eugal, while the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will depend on Gazprom's goodwill. The second issue, which appears quite often in the statements of Russian politicians, representatives of Gazprom, is a recipe for this problem in the form of further long-term contracts with Gazprom, i.e. the next long-term link between the Polish economy and other European economies and supplies from Russia. When we see an increase in international tensions and prices on the gas market, we have no doubt that Russia is again using energy resources to put pressure on its neighbours, on other countries and to deal with its political interests at the expense of gas consumers throughout the European Union. Although the key to solving the European Union's gas problems is not in Poland and the reason is not in Poland, we have prepared a law on specific solutions to protect gas customers due to the situation on the gas market. The draft law prepared by the government comprehensively responds to the effects and risks of the current crisis I am referring specifically to EU legislation. The bill has a few key points. The first point is that we include a wide umbrella for gas customers who consume gas for residential purposes, regardless of what housing resources they occupy. On the other hand, we introduce the so-called protective umbrella. vulnerable customers. This catalogue of sensitive recipients is included in the Act, and this was also mentioned by the Senator rapporteur, but I will remind you that these are schools, kindergartens, welfare homes, hospices, voluntary firefighters, and also sports clubs that run sports activities, but not business ones, because in many places there is a need to make such a distinction. We remember that there is such a thing as public aid. And for such customers, the tariff is stopped at the level of 200 PLN 17 gr. This is the rate which the President of the Energy Regulatory Office approved for 2022 for the largest shareholder in the sale of gas on the Polish market, i.e. PGNiG Retail Trading Company. In addition to the PGNiG IP, 52 other retailers are subject to the tariff of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Thus, this tariff cannot be higher than PLN 200 17 gr. But if sellers had to buy gas to deliver it to houses, communities, cooperatives, to various real estate, housing and sensitive customers even at this present price of 75 euros per MWh and sell it for 200 PLN, then they would have gone bankrupt. And then we would destroy the gas market in Poland and simply disrupt the energy security of our country. Therefore, the Act also contains compensation for gas sellers, which will be as much as their loss at the price for which they buy gas and for which they will sell it to residents and so-called. vulnerable customers. This law confirms the tariff coverage of consumers in multi-site buildings run by cooperatives or housing communities. That's gonna be a statement. Communities, cooperatives, as if from a vending machine, enter into this law. And now I answer the question asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski about how the division of business from the apartment will be conducted. Community managers, cooperative managers, GN managers must indicate what part of the gas will be consumed for business purposes and what part will be used for housing purposes. So it's impossible to deliver gas to a community or cooperative for business purposes. This applies not only to the first floors, where there are shops, where there are different service establishments and banking facilities, but also to situations where this activity is carried out in other premises. It has to be separated. Well, 45 days have property managers to submit such a tariff application. In the case of real estate establishments and a number of other entities whose names would be difficult to include in the Act, the rule is that if such a request is made within 45 days, the tariff shall apply from 1 January and if the Management Board fails to comply with the 45-day deadline, it shall count from the date of submission. We do not know how long this crisis will take, we do not know how long the Kremlin will deepen it, so in the act we have prepared solutions that will safeguard our country, our gas customers, even in case of blacker scenarios than this one. We are preventive, and we want to be prepared for a more adverse development. We are aware that Poland is not a lonely island in this situation, so the government is analysing the course and consequences of crises in other European countries. In recent months, there has been a significant reduction in industrial production in Europe, especially where gas is consumed to a very large extent. This applies to e.g. fertilising companies Yara or BASF. The German company RWE announced that due to the price of natural gas it could significantly reduce the production of electricity from gas. The Dutch Government has announced that it does not guarantee the supply of natural gas to business customers in the current season. The European gas giant, Juniper, funded around $11 billion in January to deal with the effects of the gas crisis. This funding helped to ensure inter alia. the German State through the State Development Bank of KFW. We are observing a wave of bankruptcy of gas companies from the UK, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. Even the largest gas companies stop offering gas to new customers, unable to cope with both the unprecedented surge in gas prices and the fluctuations in these prices. In this situation, we have prepared this bill to act today, on the one hand, to prepare solutions for now, to protect those customers we can cover with a tariff... I would add, by the way, that the tariff of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office can protect gas consumers, in general the gas market, by the end of 2023. It's still elongated. This extension was negotiated by Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski. If it weren't for these conversations, this cab wouldn't be working today. Our actions are partly modelled on solutions from other countries. France has frozen gas prices for the most vulnerable customers and has provided compensation for gas sellers. I would like to remind you that in addition to these activities related to the protection of gas customers and as much as possible to reduce the effects of this gas blackmail, we also carry out a large project of diversification of gas supplies to Poland. On the one hand, there is the expansion of the gas terminal named after President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście, and on the other hand this is the work on the Baltic Pipe pipeline, which recently, because this week I talked to Minister Piotr Naimski about it, is to end in order to start this pipeline from 1 October. At the same time, the construction of connections between Poland and Poland is ongoing. Lithuania and Poland Slovakia are planning to build a floating LNG terminal in the Gulf of Gdansk. Before this bill comes into force... As a government, we have taken a number of measures to protect gas customers in Poland. . and whether they are sensitive recipients of housing or business recipients. We reduced the VAT rate to natural gas from 23% to 8%. Now there will be a further reduction in the VAT rate for natural gas to zero. The VAT rate for electricity has been reduced from 23% to 5%. System heat, radiator heating, abolition of excise duties on electricity... And we want to be one of the shareholders as well, as far as we can... We expect from the main gas seller But we also encourage other gas vendors to do so. In the context of these fluctuations in gas prices in the markets, it will react, so to say, to the benefit of its customers. PGNiG Retail Trading reduced the offer by 25% for small and medium-sized businesses. This is a reaction to the latest trend, which is the trend of a slight descent from the price of gas. However, I continue to say: we are at almost five times higher gas prices than last year. I will also explain the question to the Senator of the rapporteur why there is no... why is he... Maybe so: and in the Seym, and now in the Senate there were questions about gas mined in the country. We extract a gas of 3.7 billion m3 but there is no legal way to sell this gas at a different price than the market price. It was introduced in 2013 a stock exchange obligation for the gas market that most of the gas must be bought and sold by the stock exchange. PGNiG sells gas through the stock exchange to its customers. And now what you said to the senator, which means the gas extracted in the country has different parameters. Yeah, 'cause it's a nitrogened gas that has to be recovered. And among others. Therefore, I do not remember at the moment whether it was in 2013 or in 2014 Janusz Piechociński's Deputy Prime Minister in the regulation settled the matter so that there is no settlement in the gas capacity unit, but there is settlement in megawatt hours. Therefore, this is still the gas that if he hadn't gone online as a nitrogenated one, PGNiG would have just sold it after the stock exchange had recovered. And these are the basic things. Thank you for letting us quickly talk about this law After last week's meeting of the Sejm and its adoption in the Sejm, talk. And I kindly ask the Upper House to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u100	Minister, in the case of this project, of course, the PGNiG group will have a particular role in the sense of its subsequent implementation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] He's practically a monopoly on the Polish market because... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. And stop counting your time. I would very much ask you not to disturb Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski in asking questions. And I'd like to ask you to keep your conversations down. You're welcome, Senator, to continue the question.]] Minister, the share of the PGNiG Group in the sale of gas to final customers in Poland is about 85% the market. I would like to ask what the real situation of this company is today. What's her loss for last year? I think we've had our losses in the third quarter. I'm curious about the losses in the fourth quarter. By what title were they created and in what amount? What were the consequences of this in the framework of the supervision of State Treasury companies? What are these proposals that are now? Do I support, legitimate, deliberate? will affect the company's financial performance? If Minister Sasin... [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. It's been a minute. [[... he tweeted about the analysis, so I'd ask for it.]] I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u102	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! PGNiG is a stock exchange company, so we can have the information that is published in the communications. There's no announcement for the whole year. I would like to say that when I was talking about the instruments that we wrote in this law, which will allow us to act also in the case of more black scenarios, it was also about situations such as to maintain the liquidity of PGNiG, which regardless of how much gas will cost, will have to be for Poland... On the one hand, we are talking about PGNiG SA, which must import gas to Poland, regardless of which side. Well, the lion's part of the gas is imported from Russia, but the gas, which is indexed to the stock exchange, also reaches such prices, because we are just in the European Union and the Polish gas price relative to the EU is 95%. convergence. This law contains mechanisms that will compensate gas sellers, including on the front for sensitive and domestic customers, differences in buying gas and selling to houses, but also includes State Treasury guarantees for PGNIG SA, i.e. 10 billion, and for PGNiG Retail turnover, i.e. if there were any other seller, in the amount of PLN 20 billion, it also includes an instrument in the form of liquidity loans. It's hard to say right now. We're gonna... Of course, as I say, these are the communications that the stock exchange company publishes and the Minister of State Assets, even though he is the largest shareholder, because of the general rules on access to information, may have the kind of information that the company announces in the stock exchange communications.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Janina Sagatowska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a very specific question, led by housing cooperatives. Where a housing cooperative buys heat energy for domestic heating and water heating from an external heat supplier, not alone, for example. the owner of the boiler room, this law also applies to such a cooperative? Will the cooperative then be able to submit a proposal in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister for Climate and Environment on the model of statements made by gas-fuel customers in order to benefit from these specific solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u106	Fares do not include heat from heating. The VAT rate has been reduced for this network heat.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u108	Minister, I'll go back to my questions, because the details are important here. Well, what happens when the housing community has already received this increased gas bill? What will happen when this bill comes into force? What's the procedure? Will this invoice be reinvoked, will it be changed, or will it be deducted? What's it gonna be like in the light of the bill? And my second question is that the Minister expressed himself precisely when it comes to identifying this economic activity. And in the apartments... Useful locations are clear, simple, there is a utility premises, which is used for some business activity, anyway. Unless he's running some kind of social activity there, for example. organization, something like that. But let's get back to the apartment. Now it's just that there are people who do business personally... [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u109	Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[Okay, but second question...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, there's a minute for every question. If you don't ask a question for 30 seconds, just give a variety of your reflections, then don't be surprised that this time is missing. That's how I'm gonna treat it. 'Cause that's what we said at the Bureau meeting. Every senator. Forgive me, but either you... [[Good.]] ...you'll change the rules and let me ask you all the questions you want... As long as there's a minute in the Rules of Procedure, I'm gonna be answering my voice as soon as the minute has passed. I ask the Minister to answer the question. [[It's that second question I'm signing up with, the other one...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u110	Let me repeat again, and Senator Maria Koc spoke about it: the rates have been in force since 1 January this year, i.e. if someone has received a higher bill, this overpayment is counted against the costs in the future. If someone changes the gas supplier because they have the right to change the gas supplier to another, then they get refunded the costs they paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u112	Minister, in view of the PGNiG situation and this decision that I support, Prime Minister Sasin's reduction, I will ask for an answer to the question of why this 25% reduction you had in this regard before Prime Minister Sasin announced this decision, and I will ask for these analyses in writing. And three more questions. In view of these worrying situations concerning PGNiG's communications, please answer the following questions. Will the company implement new connections to the gas network? To what extent? Will they not also be limited in a territorial context, i.e. that it will look better in one place, in another worse? What about the municipal gasification program? Of course, I will also ask, when this is already acceptable due to the stock regulations, for information on the scope of ownership supervision... [[Timer signal]] ...as all these operations have affected the financial situation of the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[... part in writing.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Dear Senator, part in writing, part now...]] But of course the Minister can decide that he will answer all questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u114	Dear Marshal, as far as possible, this is also a credible answer. This fall in prices is a level that... this is primarily the decision of the company's board of directors. It is known that the owner has no right to issue binding orders to the board, and we do so, but there is a tendency, and here it is important that companies react to what is happening on the market. If there was a downward trend... The price of gas is very unstable, rising, falling, but over the last few days there has been a certain downward trend, the price has not returned to those hundred and dozens of euros, therefore there has been a reaction of PGNiG Retail turnover, which has come down from the price by 25% on the basis of what was happening. We're not sure if the gas price will go up to 150 euros next week for a megawatt hour, but now it's about making small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as easy as possible, because here's the traffic... The Management Board has assessed that it can go down to this level without damaging liquidity.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. We note that you have committed yourself to a written answer to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask if the Minister could say... Under this law, the PGNiG as, you might say, the beneficiary in terms of obtaining public funds, e.g. with compensation, etc... What measures are provided for in this Act in a holistic way, and for what period and what sources of funding will be available to PGNiG? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Dear Mr. Marshal, may I begin by answering the senator's question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u117	You're welcome, yes, Minister. I'm sorry, sir, but there's been some sort of, I think, a completely random misunderstanding here, Mr. Senator was asking you a question, and it wasn't written down, and we want to settle it so that the senator is satisfied. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u118	I would start by saying that we can't use the word "beneficiary," because no one gains, companies don't get compensation. This compensation In my speech, I talked about it. It's not just about PGNiG. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office issues a tariff for 53 sellers on the gas market. One of them, the largest is PGNiG Retail Trading. But those compensations that we made in the bill are meant for all gas vendors so that they're not lost, so that companies don't go bankrupt. with these price cutters: buy gas 'Cause that's the way it is. Seventy-seven, eighty-six, 100 euros, and they sell for 200 zlotys, or forty-seven euros. Otherwise, in a moment we would have a wave of bankruptcy of gas vendors like in the UK or in the Czech Republic. It's just compensation for losses. I would still, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, return to the question, one of Senator Kwiatkowski's questions. Mr. Senator spoke about PGNiG, and I, and Mr. Senator, of course we know that it is the Polish Gas Company, which announced that it cannot connect other gas customers. This is the aftermath of this situation that is. PGNiG saved liquidity, and one of the first moves is, unfortunately, cutting investment, because today the main issue is buying gas and delivering it to customers with whom contracts are signed. Let me put it this way: we hope that this bill will also allow us to return to the investments that PGNiG will be running. Well, the other thing is... This is a matter that will probably concern not only the Polish economy, but the various EU economies. How much interest in connection with gas energy will remain. Because if this trend continues, it may not be the fuel of the first choice. But right now, we want this bill to have a positive effect on the return of gas consumers. I might add that much of the money recovered from Gazprom was invested in new gas networks, in connection with further gas customers in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u119	Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, I'd still like to...]] ...Mr. Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's question. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshall, I didn't get an answer...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u120	Thank you very much. Before I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal, I'll tell you that Senator Zając just asked me to inform him that he's already asked for... [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Mr Senator should have the floor in a moment.]] Yeah, he did. I'm gonna move on to my question right now. Minister, there's a question about the Mountain Voluntary Emergency Service and the Water Volunteer Emergency Service. Senator Mroza, on whose behalf I also ask a question, has been asked by representatives of GOPR, asking whether these organisations are subject to tariff protection under this Act. Some concern is that voluntary firefighters are listed directly, and GOPR and WOPR are not listed in this law. Would the Minister like to answer the question whether these organisations are covered by tariff protection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! There is a point in the Act that talks about the inclusion of non-governmental organisations' tariffs within the meaning of Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 Act of 24 April 2003 on public benefit and voluntary activities and entities referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 of this law, to the extent that they consume gaseous fuel for public benefit activities. There's been a consultation between the ministry and those organizations that the senator wanted to mention. From these talks, it was as if there was a confirmation that these organizations were in this law. It is difficult to mention all enumeratively, we were more concerned not to narrow down a certain pot than to mention specific associations, specific foundations by name.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask me to ask you a question. remotely Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I would like to point out that an extensive system of administrative supervision of gas distribution is not conducive to the situation. And speaking of which, I'd like to ask the Minister if and since they're possibly being conducted... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...with the possibility of using gas resources, which was confirmed still in the 1970s in the Tyszowce region of Komarów in the Zamość voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u126	To answer the senator's question in detail, one thing is the discovery of the gas deposit and the other is the cost-effectiveness of its extraction. Is that... A number of parameters are involved here. PGNiG is looking for deposits not only in Poland, but also e.g. on the Norwegian shelf, the money from Gazprom was purchased quite promising deposit, from which gas to Poland will be able to flow through the Baltic Pipe pipeline, which is also where Poland is active. I'll let you know, by the way... Because it's hard to answer a specific question about a particular deposit. I'd rather say... The policy of PGNiG is to use these deposits, which are profitable and of which gas can be introduced into the Polish economy. Such a target, ideal model for the Baltic Pipe pipeline would be that with a capacity of 10 billion m3 gas 4 billion would come from deposits for which concessions would be in Polish hands. Of course, domestic mining where it can be supplemented is also there. And, by the way, I'll add... During one of the debates, we were asked why mining could not be stepped up in the country and whether this level of 3.7 billion should not be increased to 5, 6, 7 billion at such a time of crisis. Without damage to the deposit, without the risk of being unreliable, that is simply the risk of losing the deposit of such movements cannot be taken. Here I share the knowledge I gained from specialists in conversation when such questions were raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask me a question remotely from Senator Jack Bogucki. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator? Because the senator isn't checking in. I understand there are some technical problems. Please ask the question of Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. One minute. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I've only just been able to connect...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. Okay. You're welcome, Senator Bogucki. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your understanding of technical problems, but this is on the Senate's side. I wasn't allowed to speak. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think that's an important question. The Minister said that the Act does not apply to heat supplies. In my town, the county, there's a boiler room that's 100% the property of the city, the gas boiler room, it produces heat for most public buildings, but above all for residential buildings in the city, owned by a housing cooperative, the economy company... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...or for the hospital. Will this boiler room, this company, be able to use this bill? So far, she's been buying gas wholesale on the stock market. In that case, will she be able to avail herself of this bill? [[Timer signal]] The Minister's statement made it clear that this was not about the sale of heat, but... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...is in this law art. 1... [[It's been a minute, Mr. Senator.]] ...in which we talk about local heat production. [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute, so...]] Does such boiler room meet this condition if it delivers through...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u129	It's been a minute. I'm gonna take your vote. [[Thank you.]] I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u130	Dear Senator, this is where we enter an area where heat production is an economic activity. So the heat that produces heat, sells heat, makes money. And this kind of aid to those who produce heat, sell heat to others, cannot be introduced because we would violate the market. In addition to the heat produced from gas, there are also many other types of heat, from other sources. We've got heat pump vendors on the market, we've got carbon heat, biomass heat. Thus, this solution would favour one heat source and subsidise it, in this case it would be State subsidy. Thus, the proposal that could have been made in this regard was a radical reduction in VAT for this network heat.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u132	Thank you very much. I'll go back to what you said about the fact that we need to define ourselves, through the community, whether there's economic activity or not. Will it be distinguished that it is an economic activity carried out at a given premises? E.g. Someone's doing tailor's adjustments, where they live, doing these jobs, and somebody else has a construction company that does construction work, and only has a registered address. And how will such a dwelling be treated in the light of this statement? This is an important question, because this, well, can give rise to various kinds of conflicts and interpretation disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u134	Here the community provides information about what part of the heat is purchased by the community for residential use and what part for business purposes. They're so, well, very important... Well, big details, or someone like that. The heat meter he has at home... whether he settles it as part of the cost of business or not. Those are questions. But here it is not expected that the cooperative, the community will give about 1 kWh, how much heat went into the business and how much heat went into the apartment. Because it would just be impossible. However, there are many factors that allow this to be calculated, such as historical data, area, intensity of a given activity. Because other consumption will be in the case of a store that is open 24 hours a day 7 days a week, and others will be for some service point that operates next to this store, on a similar area, but in a smaller area. So there's quite a... Well, there are supposed to be flexible tools to give those estimates on which the gas seller can distinguish between what part of the gas is for the apartment and what part for the business. Well, in the case of tailoring at home, one might say: if someone, operating a tailor shop in an apartment, would have gas delivered on a housing tariff, i.e. 200 PLN for 1 MWh, and someone who would run such a factory in a freestanding building or at a shopping mall, would have gas on a business tariff, then the other would have been injured and his offer would have been, well, less competitive, perhaps he would have had to withdraw his business because someone else's Polish state would have paid extra money in a way that was not allowed on the European market. It's already... I'm going into the details we discussed. And it's about the moves we'd like to protect the entire bill from, so that it doesn't stay... Well, not to put economic inequality at risk on the one hand, but on the other hand to undermine this law, its functioning, on the European market.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, High Izbo, I would like to know how much we are really talking about this bill. How many billion zlotys and within how long is it supposed to be transferred to PGNiG? Senator Szejnfeld has asked this question before, but he has not received a precise answer. I would like to know how many communities will receive each year under this law. Because according to my calculations, it's a few hundred million zlotys. I can't count it in detail, but I assume that the Minister, coming with the bill, can say whether it's a few hundred million or a billion a year to cover the losses resulting from the adoption of this law. Revenues of the PGNiG Group in 2021... [[Timer signal]] ...they were 39...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u137	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but your time is up. Just like everyone else, you had a minute. [[I'm gonna go back to the questions.]] I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u138	Dear Senator, I think that no one in this room or anyone in the Polish government could answer this question today, because the answer to this question will depend on the gas prices that will remain in 2022. I repeat: we are talking about compensating the difference between the tariff price of PLN 200 17 per MWh and the price at which the seller must buy gas. Today it is EUR 74.76, last week it was EUR 80.90, and before Christmas it was EUR 187. And that's the problem. Let me repeat once again: we in this act have prepared tools that will allow Polish customers to provide gas even if this crisis is aggravated, because there is a pot in the form of these compensation measures. And let's not just talk about PGNiG here, because besides PGNiG there are 52 other gas vendors. He who consumes gas in the community, in the cooperative, in the apartment, has the right to decide who he buys it from. If it's PGNiG, it's okay, if it's other companies, then it's from them that gas buys it. If the company suffers a loss because it buys gas more expensive and sells it cheaper because we have introduced statutory protection of customers in sensitive homes and customers, then we cover this difference with this compensation. We would like the vast majority of the instruments recorded in this Act to be on paper so that we do not have to use them so that gas prices in the coming months will fall to levels a few months ago, but we are preparing for blacker scenarios, including the fact that the money saved for compensation would not be enough. Writing in December or early January, preparing this... Today we do not know whether in 2 weeks gas will cost 70 Euros, 40 Euros or 200 Euros, because today it is independent of us. It is our duty to prepare such a solution and such instruments that will secure gas customers in homes, in communities, in general the Polish market, because at the same time we also secure... That's what I'm pointing out, 'cause perhaps your senator is at the moment. It wasn't in the gym. I was talking about the fact that we also ensure the security of gas imports to Poland, it is the financial security of gas imports to Poland. This is our role. I hope so. I'm gonna say it myself. The majority of the instruments will not have to be used, but we will know at the end of 2022 whether this hope will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u140	Minister, I'm gonna ask you a question to fit in a minute, and then I'm gonna sort of justify it. I'm still referring to the questions I asked you earlier, Senator. Let me remind you: 22% gas is extracted from domestic sources. You referred to the regulations which are from 2015 and which were introduced by Minister Piechociński. Are you planning any changes to these regulations? Because once again, on my territory, the gas used 109 zlotys for 1 MWh to 771 zlotys, which is 7 times. Right now, PGNiG... And this is high nitrogened gas, and the high calorific gas at the moment costs 300.400 at stock prices. Entrepreneurs and the people of my region do not fully understand how it is possible that the gas extracted from our sources would travel so drastically. You said Putin was taking advantage of the monopoly position. Isn't PGNiG taking advantage of the monopoly position? [[Timer signal]] Are you planning to change the rules to make it real? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u142	Could I ask your senator if this is about the sale of gas to final customers by PGNiG or another gas seller who buys gas from PGNiG on the wholesale market and is only just selling to customers? [[I don't know. Therefore, I will address these questions in writing, if I may.]] I would also like to see what has been said in the High House at probably two committee meetings, certainly on one. The German company G.EN Gaz Energia, whose local authorities sold the networks from about 20 years ago There was a charge that PGNiG gas is selling so expensive. At the meeting of the committee it was clarified that any gas seller who buys gas from PGNiG as an importer or from another importer buys gas on the same terms. And this company asked for an offer, it seems from February and gas prices were much lower a year ago, but did not take advantage of this offer, hoping that prices would be even lower. It seems that in June there was again a question about the offer. It is known that for anyone who would then submit to PGNiG, a certain volume, a certain amount of gas, already some small deliveries depending on... It is already such didaskalia. The point is that during a given period you can buy gas at a given price. As we say today, gas now costs 74 euros, and last week it cost between 80 and 90 euros. This company simply missed the moment when it should contract gas for its customers, and contracted gas when its prices went up. And that's what they were charged with. Also through the Upper House was the bill, which we tried to solve at the end of last year, when these prices had not yet reached this peak of nearly EUR 190 per MWh, when it seemed that this was still the momentary leap. The current President of the Energy Regulatory Office could say more in detail on this subject, but I will draw up this situation. Companies selling gas in relation to tariff customers must have an approved tariff by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. If the company's management bought gas for EUR 100 and sold it for EUR 40, it would be detrimental to the company and would therefore have to show a higher price of gas in the tariff application to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. And in the bill that was adopted by the Sejm, the Senate, there is a record that this loss does not have to be immediately passed on to the customer, but can only be received under future tariffs within 36 months. So if prices fall, the loss of today's difference between buying wholesale gas and selling into apartments can be written as a reasonable cost on the future tariff, so as to ease this first leap. Turns out it's not enough. I'll be right back. And as far as I know, this company didn't want to take advantage of it. At least at the committee meeting, the representatives of this German company said that they were not interested in spreading increases over time. Why did I say, "I'm putting up a star and I'm going back to that?" Well, the tariff of 200 PLN 17 gr, which we are talking about, is the effect that PGNiG Retail Trading has benefited from this possibility, which we introduced by law, and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office has approved the tariff at this level thanks to our law. If not for this, we would be talking about this several hundred percent increase for all, because simply gas would be bought for 150 euros or 120 euros, and it would be sold at a lower price. Any board that would lead to loss would later have major legal problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. First, concrete, on the text of the bill. Art. 22: The law shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. Shouldn't it be added for the purposes of this law with effect from 1 January 2022? And second question, more general. You said that the cause of price increases is primarily intentional, intentional, external, unfavorable activities, so to speak. Do you not think that the Minister should therefore increase the protection of the network, which is the main critical network in Poland, as well as what serves to receive gas from the outside, e.g. A gasport in Świnoujście?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u146	Dear Senator, The Act enters into force at the moment of the announcement, on the date of adoption, but the rules that allow to apply a tariff of PLN 200 17 are, I would say, deducted from January 1. It's just from the board of individual communities, the cooperative... I mean, communities, cooperatives maybe not. ... Business and real estate facilities depend on whether they use it to protect their customers backwards from 1 January. This bill gives you opportunities. As for the protection of critical infrastructure, I am a little bit in the area of not our ministry, because due to EU rules in one hand, there can be no management of gas extraction and sale and transmission in one ministry. This area is under the authority of the government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Minister Piotr Naimski. The assurances are always such that we know of Minister Piotr Naimski, that there is a very high level of safety standards. Abstracting from the minister who oversees this, I will say that there are very precise rules here that require the protection of critical infrastructure. Regardless of this, after the Senate meeting, I will give this suggestion to Minister Piotr Naimski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u148	I don't have a new question. I'd like to say that I didn't get an answer to the question I asked earlier. I asked what amount is provided for in the Compensation Act and all costs resulting from the PGNiG Act or It's not like that. For all the actors, as the Minister said. Let's continue. What's the amount? In what part will it be for PGNiG, and in what part for other entities? In what time period? What year? I ask you to take into account what the Minister has said, which is that these are the maximum costs, potential costs, depending on prices, depending on the situation. The Act provides for certain amounts, not alleged amounts. What's the amount? By the way, while I'm at the vote, I would like to ask the Minister to tell us what the penalties are for those who are to make these statements. I'm asking about financial penalties and penalties, so to speak, professional.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u150	Dear Senator, I was talking about the amount of PLN 10 billion, but no one can tell us today how this amount will spread between sellers. Let me remind you that there are 53 players on the market. Depending on who will deliver the amount of gas to their customers, this will be compensated. That's what it looks like. We accepted a certain respect for 2022, with a certain margin for the transition to the next year on account. That was the first question. Two... [[Voice from the room: Responsibility.]] Oh, responsibility. We're gonna have a... wait a minute, Director Grzegorz Dlast would clarify the issue of penalties, which are, of course, written down in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u151	In the bill we have a recipe which says that not submitting a statement is punishable by fine from PLN 500 to PLN 50,000. This is a misdemeanor, and we apply the code of conduct in cases of misdemeanor. Of course, making a false statement is a statement that is false to the criminal code.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u152	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about the issue of... Did you coordinate this work with the Ministry of Finance working on the VAT Act, the tax on sensitive products, from various sources of heat and food products? Because my impression is that the state consistently And in that, and in that second law, you're skipping a large group of customers, e.g. all those who use liquid gas as a source of heat in households and businesses. Is this the intended action? Is it just to rule out a lot of people, or is it just an accident at work? That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u155	Well, the draft law was filed by the government. She was prepared by the Minister of State Assets acting in close cooperation, as closely as possible, with the Minister of Climate, Anna Moscow. Finances, of course, were also taken into account at the stage of the work on this law. On the other hand, as to the gas prices you exchanged... [[- Co-ordination.]] ...then these solutions are largely consistent, they go like one track. Mr. Senator, I'm going to say that the price of the gas you exchanged has increased less than the increase, even with our fare. So that's what it looks like. [[Maybe it's the other way around.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. I would just like to remind you that in just a few minutes we will lose the opportunity to take these commemorative photos. There's a photo crew on the second floor, and any senator who still wants to do that can do it. I ask you to ask the senator, Marshal Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you a question about protected workplaces, because many environments and associations of people with disabilities are asking for an amendment here. I know 'cause we talked about this a little bit at the board meeting. It's problematic because sheltered workers are engaged in commercial, economic activities, but I'd like to ask if, after all... Well, I'd like that answer to sound here, too. Could it be that the sheltered work facilities referred to in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities could be among the vulnerable and obtain this gas tariff rate to the extent that they use gas fuels for primary activities? [[Timer signal]] Is it possible, or are we already entering the issue of state aid here?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u158	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u159	We can't cover this area. The law won't allow it. Each company can, of course, after fulfilling a number of requirements, obtain the status of a protected work establishment, but let us remember that this is a business activity which is directed towards profit and dividend payment for shareholders. So let's take the situation... I'm gonna say it so graphically. We're dealing with a hall where someone who bought machines, took loans and hired people, runs a commercial production of masks. And next door, in the next hall, someone's doing the same thing. And praise him for that. As a sheltered work facility. But whoever would do this as a sheltered work would buy gas cheaper, and that would be very discriminatory against those who do not enjoy such privileges. As for people with disabilities, this law includes the protection of occupational therapy workshops and social inclusion centres. Those places where the economic activity is not carried out and which serve the support of the disabled are covered by that law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u160	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a remote question from Senator Robert Dowhan. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, that's about the last question you asked the marshal. Isn't it better to make a cab or a relief for everyone? Entrepreneurs are divided again, and they're going to have to prove whether they're leading or not at home again. How are people supposed to relate to this, for example. They hire disabled people and they have to warm up the hall? Yeah, we live in some kind of absurdity. Well, you did Polish Load, you have to make some explanations, PIT, compensation... Yeah, it's a mess all the time. You can't make one relief for everyone, not later prove that, for example. conducts business or does not operate? Isn't that another ridiculous thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u163	I'm telling you again. But it has already happened many times, also from various groups of companies, that we cannot cover this business protection, because it would be illegal public aid, which would also affect entrepreneurs, who, for example. they use other energy raw materials. Poland operates on the European market, we operate on the EU market, 27 countries of the Community. And it would be like, for example, aid. for airlines that were higher... At the beginning of the pandemic, the European Commission established a certain level of support for airlines which did not require remedial measures. That's the doorway where LOT fit in. Above, despite the pandemic, despite the closure of the sky, he would have had to introduce remedies, e.g. handing over parts of slots at the airport im. Fryderyk Chopin in Warsaw. So that we do not have space, we must not, so to speak, enter into support for the recipients who conduct business activities. I will go back to the fact that there is a 0% reduction in VAT in this area. Of 23% VAT went down to 0%. And the gas salesman in the PGNiG group, right after the prices went down, not for one day, just for a few days, started to develop a certain trend... It's five times more expensive than last year, but it's not 150, 180... prices from your business price list. We are moving within the framework of those provisions which allow us to regulate the EU.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u165	Thank you very much again. Income of the PGNiG Capital Group in 2020 'Cause I couldn't find the data for 2021. This is 39 billion PLN. You said, in answer to one of the previous questions, that this year you assume that assistance can be provided at the level of PLN 10 billion. And at the same time, as I said, my calculations show... And I assumed that the domestic extraction is about 100 PLN per MWh, LNG, and this is about 20%. the total demand - 120 zł. And about 100 euros, as you have said, with those prices that are on the market today, is now 70... This aid will not exceed several hundred million, let's say 1 billion PLN. Then where do you get those 10 billion zlotys? I can't understand at all who, how, and on what basis did the calculations here. It's all kind of from the ceiling. I'd like to understand this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u166	Dear Senator, I would very much like this thesis presented by your senator to be reflected in reality and that only a few hundred million zlotys should be used from this amount of secured PLN 10 billion. Because that would mean that the gas prices would go lower than the blacker scenario we took. Once again, I repeat: the law prepares the Polish economy for darker scenarios than today. The price of gas today is EUR 74.76 per MWh. The gas price at the end of December was 187 euros. We don't know, we still don't know if the gas will be 200 euros per megawatt hour or 30 euros each. We would like no instruments recorded in this law to be used. But they're here to protect the most vulnerable people, protect the housing holdings, because that's what we can do by law. And ensure PGNiG's liquidity and thus ensure safe import and production of gas for the entire Polish economy. This is a question of the energy security of our country. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u167	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Here we go again. [[No, no, no, no.]] Senator Janusz Gromek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u168	Minister, I have a question for you. There is talk of natural gas and gas, which is imported by vessels for farms and for entrepreneurs. And there are 3 million gas users who drive cars. Do you think about considering that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u169	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u170	It's outside the scope of the bill. We're talking about another gas, a completely different way to produce it. Here the number omen increases were lower than the increase for gas customers in homes, even after this tariff which we keep at the level of 200 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u171	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. There you go, Mr. Senator. Are you Senator Szejnfeld? There isn't. Then please take the floor of the senator... [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Are you a senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! We are talking about an extremely important law, which is important for practically all people in Poland. Who in one way or another does not use gas as a source of energy as a source of heat? Not many people, not many institutions. Almost everyone's enjoying it. Today, we will discuss not only this law, but also the next one, which will refer to reducing the tax burden in terms of VAT, on many products and services. They both have the same goal. Unfortunately, both have a common denominator, not only in a positive but also in a negative dimension. Namely, they resemble, and especially the one we are talking about now, a thrush. On the one hand, they have many gaps, on the other hand they do not take into account many needs, and on the other hand the solutions they contain are complicated and will be subject to different interpretations, so they are dangerous. I asked the Minister about the penalties provided for in the bill. They come, as far as their potential is concerned, to PLN 50,000. There are also bans on work, on taking specific positions. Undoubtedly, every hundred thousand times will think, even with the full conviction that his decision has an absolutely pro-social, pro-Citizen, pro-human character, whether he is to sign it. In my opinion, the bill is badly written in this regard. We're gonna have to fix it. We're gonna try. If she were as good as the Minister presented... I don't know why we got such a huge number of protests, conclusions, demands, even requests. Many of the emails I receive start with the following words: please politely, please politely, we beg, etc. People read this bill and don't see help for themselves. One of those... If I were to present people relating to this law in a group, they would be mainly self-government. The largest number of comments, proposals, requests and requests came to me from the local government. I could give you a million examples here. For example, the Vulsztyn governor, who not only wrote but also sent me the invoices he received. Compared to the previous trading period, the gas price in October and November jumped 261%. And it's just a shock. And next month, December, 549%. I ignore that the price of electricity went up by 74%, etc. It is hard to imagine how these entities would function. But here we are trying to help public entities and households. What are the companies supposed to do? And what will the co-operatives of these companies be able to do? And what will the clients of these companies do? Well, he's getting ready in Poland... And this law does not provide for practically any solutions outside the illusory ones recently presented by Prime Minister Sasin. She doesn't solve the problem at all. The drama is coming up in Poland. And it is not like the Minister said that the only people responsible for this drama are the European Union and Putin or Russia and the European Union. Nothing, nothing, no guilt on the part of the Polish government, on the side of Law and Justice, on the side of the National Bank of Poland. Zero, nothing at all. Putin and the European Union, Putin and the European Union, Putin and the European Union... And TV will add: Donald Tusk. I'll talk about it. I think it's different. And speaking of criticism... They are not only locals, but also representatives of social, non-governmental organisations, housing cooperatives, housing communities, even though they are included here because they are badly taken into account... Since I want to make amendments, I will present very briefly who, at least according to the beneficiaries, has not been taken into account. Certainly sports and recreational facilities, sports clubs, botanical gardens, zoos, but also city guards, not fully police, sobering rooms, sheltered work facilities They were mentioned here just before I spoke. Voluntary firefighters Yeah, but there's a problem with the State Fire Department. More animal shelters, nature conservation entities, science and technology parks. In the field of self-government still urban communications facilities. The sheltered labor facilities, I mentioned, the family gardens... Many entities and institutions undoubtedly public, undoubtedly providing public services, are not included or are not taken into account as they should be taken into account. There's ambiguities. The wording is unclear, in a complicated way, giving any interpretation. This was pointed out above all by those self-government entities and others which operate in the field of heat generation, i.e. heating. There wasn't a single positive voice or a single positive opinion here at all. They were all negative and all with a request to correct at least the content of the record. The point is that the content of the record, if its intention is right, cannot be interpreted freely and cannot lead to the management of those entities refusing to make a statement so that, by chance, they do not receive 50,000 penalties and a ban on office for 2 years. Well, that can't be right. The law must be clear and transparent, so transparent that it doesn't cause... Especially this law, which is to help, cannot cause fear of exercising that right. Like I said: if not all companies, then the most sensitive ones Micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, salt of the Polish economy. If we lead here to avalanches of collapses, bankruptcys, closure of companies, companies, and you can already see it, you can see empty sites on the streets, information and statistics showing that people are registering business activity This, of course, will lead to tragedy. Like I said, we heard today who's guilty. Putin and the European Union. Tusk's name didn't come up, but I wouldn't be surprised if it fell. There is nothing here, as I understand it, neither economic policy, economic policy of the government nor misguided monetary policy of the Monetary Policy Council and the National Bank of Poland, which result in huge inflation on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a huge decrease in the value of gold. And yet it is known that settlements in this kind of energy medium, such as oil or gas, are in foreign currencies, so if the gold goes to the neck... I will remind you that two years ago the value of the zloty against the euro was about 4.25, and now it is around 4.55 and more, almost under 5 zlotys it approaches. Well, all this clearly translates into the price of an energy carrier like gas. And this is to a large extent... [[Timer signal]] ...the result of the wrong policy of the government and the National Bank of Poland. [[Thank you, Senator...]] Thank you very much. I'm very sorry that I couldn't explain these shortcomings of activity and government and PGNiG more, but perhaps on another occasion it would be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u173	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In Poland we actually have the highest gas prices. I mean, we have the highest gas prices, and the government is looking for the guilty and looking for them in the East, not admitting the mistakes he's made. I will remind you that the basis for the gas trade is not only the stock market, but also trade agreements. And now I'm going to show you the history of the gas contracts. Mr Jasiński signs an agreement with Russia for the supply of gas in 2005 and we have very high gas prices. In 2008, you sign the agreement with Prime Minister Pawlak, negotiate, disperse and go to the stock exchange, and some of it goes to the contracts, of course. PGNiG President, Mrs Piotrowska-Oliwa later negotiated a discharge of around 10% all over the contract. The year 2021 comes, the agreement with Russia is coming to an end for the supply of gas, and the question is whether we are extending or not. And it was this year that we had to decide whether or not we were going to diversify, whether or not some part of the gas was going to be taken into contracts, or whether things would go through the stock market. We've decided everything's going through the stock market, so we have the gas price we have. I think, dear people, that if the government were to buy gas for their money, it would do diversification, because everyone is diversifying, and here gambling with Poles was practiced, and as a result we have very high gas prices. Experts have suggested that it is necessary to diversify at least in twenty percent. Poles suffer from all this, Polish companies suffer. Of course, our economy will not be competitive. This is a government failure. It is these prices that are affected by Poland's policy on the economy, and this Rusophobia is affecting everything. Nor was the resilience of the Polish economy increased after the pandemic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, admit your mistakes as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u175	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski... No, I'm sorry, Senator Jackowski... [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] Oh, he's not here, is he? Is it? There isn't. This is Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not without reason I have asked for these amounts, because I will make an amendment that will allow actually producers of heat energy from gas supplying heat to homes, hospitals, etc. They could have used that help. I know they're entrepreneurs, but a producer in communities sometimes also acts as an entrepreneur. So if we really want to help everyone, then we cannot divide them and distinguish them from those who got heat from the boiler installed in the building, and those who got heat from the boiler, which is outside the building and from it it was delivered with a pipe, because that means that we treat Poles differently. That's an amendment I'm about to make to the marshal. But before I do, I'm going to continue this thread that concerns responsibility for the situation that we're dealing with today. After all, this government has changed the clearing system and the contract system. Previously, these accounts were based on medium and long-term prices, long-term average rates. This allowed us to make things more flexible, and it allowed the stock market not to really have such a big impact on the price. You changed that. You've made us completely dependent on the stock market today. Mr. Minister, by the way, today on the stock market costs 70, a few days ago it cost 100, etc., he's right. But you changed those contracts. That's one thing. Secondly, Gazprom fully implements long-term contracts. If you had signed long-term agreements, if you hadn't attacked Prime Minister Pawlak and the previous government so hard, we would have been very stable in terms of gas supply today. You didn't take care of long-term contracts. More, I would like to know which contracts for the supply of natural gas will be concluded by PGNiG after 2022 with the exception of those which are for supply through LNG port to cover national demand, which is about 19 billion m3 of high-octane natural gas. I would like to know, Minister, why you are not taking any action with regard to EuRoPol Gas. The only thing that happens is that high prizes and bonuses are paid to those who are employed there. Several billion dollars are in accounts, while the contract that was signed with EuRoPol Gaz expired. The agreement concluded on October 29th, 2010, which you are so much avenge by saying that Poland lost eight hundred and a few dozen million dollars, says that EuRoPol Gaz, or actually Gazprom, is obliged to transport gas through EuRoPol Gas to Western Europe by 2045 and to Poland by 2039. There's no transmission tonight, and you're not doing anything. The least you can do is get back the money that was paid or left to Gazprom in this part of the signing of a long-term, profitable today for Poland. It's the reality that shows The 2010 agreements Finally, you say this: we do not know what the prices will be in the following days, weeks. Well, Minister, we know. They won't be higher, we know that. We already know how winter is; we know how much is in the warehouses; we know all that; we know that it will not go any further. The middle class gas guy already knows that. It's the end of January. This worst winter season... Even if the temperature drops to minus 5, it's not going to be minus 20, minus 30, so there won't be much gas demand. We know that the prices on the stock exchanges, with those bad contracts you signed, aren't gonna go up, they're not gonna jump for two or three days, just like you said... They for 2 or 3 days were at the level of one hundred and dozens of euros per MWh, now it is at the level of 70 euros and will rather fall. But I also want to make it clear that we all understand that domestic extraction is 20%, LNG is about 30%, or 50%. He's off the stock market. And you say you can't predict anything. To be honest, a government that can't predict anything... Then what's the government for? Why are you guys even here? You've written a bill and you're planning $10 billion, and I'm calculating, from my estimates, you're going to spend no more than a billion. You say you want so much, but you don't know... In this area, everything is pretty clear, you know when, what and how to sell. Heaters know it, gas workers know it, people who take care of it professionally. I assume, Minister, that you have such people in your surroundings, I take that assumption. But since you've said it twice or three times: we don't know, we don't know, we don't know... Then what do you even know? What do you know? You're discrediting yourselves. I'm actually surprised at your answer. The Lord really should say that the government estimates such and such amounts, etc., approximately, and you say that you have reserved 10 billion in this budget, but maybe you will not spend 10 billion. According to my calculations, it's not gonna be more than 1 billion. I show you the amounts and the stakes, I show you the sources, and so on, and you never once said anything about it, not once. It is surprising that you can come to the High House and take an extremely important case quite lightly, because this concerns many entrepreneurs. I don't want to prolong, Mr. Marshal. I am making amendments that will allow those who benefit The Senators of PiS also said that. The heat produced from gas outside the building was also covered by this support scheme. There's no differentiation here. I will say more: because of something that is extremely important to me, i.e. due to the care of air quality, the fight against climate change, this is absolutely necessary and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u177	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! I listened to this debate and I'm going to say that there are, like, a few layers here. First line. A law that I thought was hard to criticize, because it is a law that, in this difficult situation of crazy gas prices, introduces maximum aid for all so-called. vulnerable recipients, i.e. hospitals, schools, religious associations, TSOs, as well as very widely understood public benefit organisations, including a catalogue of very many entities... The Minister also explained this from this speaker today. And here comes Mr. Szejnfeld, Senator of the Civic Platform, former MEP, and he says this: we would have to help these micro-entrepreneurs. Indeed, if this were in line with the European Union's rules, we would sign off on this with both hands. However, who knows that there are some restrictions that do not allow us to do so, but the Senator, who was a MEP, knows that there are some restrictions. And hence those we can help with, i.e. all these organizations, non-profit companies, we try to put in this law very broadly, very widely, by interpreting everything in favour of all these entities. But, unfortunately, we cannot provide assistance on the basis of European Union rules, because we are talking about the refund by the state of the difference between the market price and the regulated price. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And it is someone who deals with the economy, someone who was a Deputy Minister of Economy, someone who was a MEP, who should know. But we, Mr Senator, have not left these entrepreneurs alone, because in this corset that the European Union is imposing on us, we are doing what we can. We're even doing this... I'm sorry, it's gonna be a youth term, maybe it's not right here in the Senate to say that. Well, we're driving around the gang, reducing VAT to zero, while the European Union, so to speak, is frowning and saying that we can't necessarily do that. That's all we can do, reducing the price of gas for everyone, and for individuals, and for entrepreneurs, that's what we do. If the European Parliament, today's Senator, has any other solutions, please present them, but they must comply with European Union rules. Perhaps you'd like to knock on your friend Donald Tusk's EPP, who is technically still the boss? His colleague Ursula von der Leyen, head of the European Commission, is from the same political group. Well, perhaps it is necessary at European Commission level to introduce such solutions, which Mr Mateusz Morawiecki called for at the European Union Summit, and yet to deal with the crazy prices of energy and gas. Because it's not like that, ladies and gentlemen, that we're the only ones who have a problem. The whole of Europe has a problem in general. I quote: "The wholesale prices of electricity and gas have increased. More and more industrial companies and consumers are affected by this. We're talking about Germany. And further: German medium-sized enterprises are alarming due to the sharp rise in energy and gas prices; the director of the German Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Association Markus Jerger talks about the threat to employment growth and prosperity. This shows that it is not so that only in Poland there are high energy prices. Germany High energy prices, record prices are in Italy, Spain, Portugal. In the southern countries they have an even bigger problem than we do, because there is not only a high price of gas for heating. They've already destroyed coal power plants, and they don't have enough energy from the atom. Some countries do not, some have little. And they're still producing electricity from gas, so they're kind of hit twice. And here there is no mistake of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government. If it were cheap in Germany, it was cheap in Spain, it was cheap in Italy, it would actually seem that the Polish government made some mistake. However, just as a result of these machinations, which unfortunately does Putin Mr. Senator, all it takes is a little bit of this cock. The European Union's climate policy is driven by these prices. And the government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, does not say that he is not interested in the fact that there will be gasoline at the fuel stations, but on the one hand introduced a cover supplement for individuals, i.e. for Polish families, and on the other hand did something that no government has ever done in history since VAT was introduced, and where there was a possibility, we lowered this tax to zero, and where it was not possible for various legal reasons related to the European Union, we introduced a maximum reduction to 5 or 8%. Will anyone say that in the history of Polish VAT operation ever VAT on food was 0% ? And today it is, yes, today it is. We've introduced other things too, for example. for fertilisers. Unfortunately, we are in some geostrategic conditions and we do not buy gas in a bag or bucket, we have to buy it on the stock market. We also buy... We have launched a number of other sources, alternative ones, so we buy not only Russian gas, but everywhere gas is more expensive and Gazprom sells expensive gas everywhere today. Because we are already looking at prices on the gas market globally today, even by this huge demand, which also triggers the Chinese or Indian economy, where some of the deposits are redirected. But to be honest, like some politicians of the Civic Platform, luckily the Platform, and not the PSL, they're starting to talk historically about the contracts we signed there... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the politicians of the PiS, it is the Supreme Chamber of Control who spoke about this contract, which was signed by the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Waldemar Pawlak, but this Deputy Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak was in the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk. And that's when the NIK report put a lot of different irregularities and doubts in signing this kind of... Well, it's all described there, these strange negotiating instructions that have changed. It is worth getting acquainted with this report NIK. And no one accused any politician of law and justice of making any mistakes in the negotiations with Gazprom or with the Russian side. In the meantime, it is worth reading the NIK report about that time. Today, you are so fond of referring to NIK. Then please read this report to NIK. As far as I know, he's already been declassified, because he's partially, to some extent, secret, part secret. But today it's already public, it's all been revealed. And when you ask how the negotiations were conducted with the Russian party, please read this report by NIK. Then you can discuss who and how you negotiated with the Russian side. It is difficult for me to refer to those amendments which are tabled because, in my opinion, they are not somehow discussed by the senators. If there are amendments, there is another group that can be added, expanded, I think we are open because we want to help maximum everyone who can help in accordance with Union rules, and make sure that... [[Timer signal]] ...there were no high gas prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u179	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I think that from this debate, what is most interested in citizens, and such signals I get, is the issue of individual bills that have come or have been issued to users of apartments. And I think here we can skip all these macro-economic aspects, this discussion, who has an impact on gas prices and where it comes from. This dispute here is actually secondary to the feelings of millions of Poles, who at the moment have to face a very serious problem. High Izbo, for some time now I have been putting the thesis that inflation and what is happening in the energy markets raises the cost of living the property you live in in in a special way. Whether it's a rental or you own a place or it's cooperative law, this is where the biggest jumps are. The citizens come to me and show me the fees for a small apartment. It was 440 zlotys, jumped to 690 zlotys. Someone paid 500 zlotys, now pays 780 zlotys. I'm talking about the pre-financing system, the down payment for the heating of the premises and the provision of hot water. And please note that this isn't an 8.6% jump. or 10% , at the level of official inflation, only much higher. Please note that for households with the lowest or low income, the cost of housing is a fixed cost, which already consumes a very large part of this modest income. And that's the real problem we're gonna face because everyone needs an apartment. Well, even the municipal stock bill says it's a basic good. How housing policy is implemented is a separate topic, and I don't want to go into it right now. But I think the problem is very serious. If we count the increased costs of heating or hot water, whether it is powered by an internal gas boiler in a given building or so. urban heat, i.e. from the power plant, whether it is the heat obtained from propane-butane gas because there are also such types of power supplies Is it done in any other way... And even if someone's powering it with coal, in a traditional way, some kind of pea oven, coal or anything else, there's still a very significant increase in real estate maintenance costs. In addition, we have to add the increasing costs of supplying apartments with water, sewage charges, garbage charges, which we had the opportunity to discuss here for a long time, and so-called charges. light, as people say, means electricity, which has also increased significantly. The cost of maintaining some of the common properties has also increased. It's about illuminated stairwells, access hatches, lights before entering the stairwell, etc., etc. That's all, High Izbo, generates costs. This area is, in my opinion, a fundamental area. And that is why, at the last Senate meeting, I made a statement to the Prime Minister, which is our counterpart of the interpellation, asking whether the government is considering any modification of these allowances, housing allowances. These costs will increase, and I believe that not all citizens are fully aware of this. Well, these bills are going down right now, citizens just get these new tariffs. In this respect, I believe that systemic support from the public administration, that is, from the government, will be needed. How will this be solved? I don't want to discuss it right now, I'm just paying attention to a very serious problem. There's a couple of unfavorable factors here. Energy price increases and inflation. And that's what gave this critical mass. High Izbo, of course this bill that we are now pursuing will in many cases be soothing or limiting... 'Cause it's gonna be an increase. Question: How much? Will the heating charges increase by several hundred percent or not? I know the housing community, in which there is no economic activity, it is a 12-mansion building, there tolls during the winter period for gas, i.e. heating and for hot water, were within 4 thousand PLN per month, it crashed into these 12 premises, of course in proportion to the consumption, because these apartments are measured and can be calculated consumption and at the moment future bills for 12 or 13 thousand PLN. And in this example you can see that if we average the cost per apartment, 1 thousand PLN for the gas itself, because I'm not talking about other costs of living. And these are small properties, these are singles. or two-room apartments, these aren't big apartments, big format. High Izbo, in my opinion, is one of the very serious aspects of the current economic situation in Poland, inflation and this cost, as citizens say, of this increase in energy prices. And in my opinion, the government, in addition to actions such as those relating to this bill we are now proceding, let's call it: gas It should already consider how to address this problem, which will be a very serious social problem, I repeat, a very serious social problem. Because to the movies, High Izbo, you can not go, you can not buy a book I'm sorry about that. Even if someone has such a need, but so-called. Chambers must pay, they must be paid especially by pensioners, especially the weakest, because not paying such a fee results in a debt recovery procedure, and then the debt loop increases and at some point the situation becomes, you can say, hopeless. Of course, it is a good thing that there is this gas law, of course we can discuss various aspects, what entities should be covered by it, and we should also remember what Minister Maciej Małecki said about it, i.e. that it cannot be that one economic operator who does the same as the other, but is in that, so to speak, another legal formula or another establishment carries out this activity, has different gas costs, while in the case of doing the same in other regimes there is a commercial price. But on the other hand, Minister, there are such typical cases: e.g. there is a taxi driver who has a reported business activity, lives in the community, but his job is to drive customers around the city, not run this business in the premises where he lives. And there's so-called in that case. the obligation, he must indicate this address in the declaration of economic activity. I, High Izbo, also worked as the President of the City Council of Warsaw, because there were cases that the councillors were active in the so-called. municipal property. And that's a classic example. There was a question of whether such a councilman was losing his mandate at that time, and there were legal interpretations saying that what else is to operate in this premises or on this property directly, and what else is to give this address to business records. The same is true for a doctor who visits patients, who does not do business at home, does not have an office, but has a registered business activity. And these examples could be multiplied. I pay attention to this because there may be confusion in this context. And since we know that this is not the situation of a very narrow group of citizens, this is just hundreds of thousands of people who are doing business, this is, in my opinion, an element that would be worth clarifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u181	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. It's remote. Senator Dowhan? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] Thank you. Then Mr. Senator... [[You can hear me now, can't you?]] Oh, there's Senator Dowhan. Yes, I am, but this... Good. You're welcome. I can hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I briefly, because the situation is serious and, you know, this bill on the one hand is very good, but, as my previous speakers also said, even at the end of Senator Jackowski, will lead to various disparities... Today again we share entrepreneurs who have the address of running a company in their building or have employed e.g. Disabled... This sharing of these people again leads to their competitiveness changing, and simply those entrepreneurs who pay their entire lives, pay high VAT, pay taxes, pay business fees, face these high prices again. This is my previous speaker from PiS, Mr. Frost, who as usual praised everything that was, and said that entrepreneurs and everyone should be happy, and the government of Law and Justice went off the rails. In fact, he went out of his way, I agree, because such a mess has not been in Polish law for a long time. What's happening right now with the so-called. Polish Ład, what the government has given us I'm talking about entrepreneurs, I'm talking about people who get paid, about pensioners, about teachers, about uniform services... Yeah, you guys actually went off the rails. These slogans related to health protection, where health care is subject to increased taxes, such as sugar tax or so-called. Monkeys... These are the things you say nicely, but in practice we know it's about money. And now that we're talking about money... Well, what good is it that today the government or the PGNiG company, which is a company of the Treasury, or a company, can say, well, all citizens, instead of earning, as Senator Gawłowski said, 30 billion, will earn a little less? After all, it's money, you can say, all of us. Of course, companies are called to make money, but did PGNiG implement some kind of austerity program to help us all who are receiving gas, for example by reducing sponsorships that he does a lot, by reducing costs, I don't know, management or employees, or others? Well, she didn't. I didn't hear her do it. Of course, all those who are to make money earn money, and at the end of the day, the costs are paid by ordinary customers. What's the big deal that today's VAT has been reduced to some or all food? Yeah, it's down. And so VAT pays us as consumers, we pay it and we pay it in a moment. And so it goes on to the common treasury fund. There are times, not different times. There's a fuel crisis. You should have thought of that a few years ago. You should have thought about building wind farms, getting relief from photovoltaics, and you're going in the other direction. Well, today you don't know how to plan, because tomorrow you're gonna introduce a prosolidarity tax, you're gonna put in some health fees, maybe you're gonna take climate taxes. A man doesn't know what to expect. I mean, it's really been a long time since there's been such a mess. You don't want to work, you don't want to wait for the paybar... Because there's a lot to say for all those who have never done their own business, and most of all, they're smart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u183	Thank you, Senator. [[I'm sorry, I'd like to correct.]] Senator Frost in the form of correction. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u184	Well, I'll do it quicker. Mr. Senator Dowhan, either you're extremely malicious or you don't understand certain things. If I said the government of law and justice was on the run... Yeah, he's going crazy because we've reduced VAT to zero, and the European Commission is trying to undermine and express its dissatisfaction. And in this situation, don't talk about the Polish Lade here, because it has nothing to do with... In Germany there is no Polish Cargo, in Italy there is no order, and also there are high energy prices. And if you can help, tell your colleague Donald Tusk to call Ursula von der Leyen so that she doesn't cause any problems for us because we're lowering VAT to zero for Polish consumers and Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u185	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. There you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I've been called here by one of the senators, but I'm not going to mention his name so he doesn't have any excuse to correct it again. I'm not even going to talk about it because I don't think it's worth it. I would like to remind you that recently, on 8 January, part of the debate was devoted to this bad European Union, which led to an increase in gas prices, etc. A probe was carried out, which shows that 40% Poles believe that the Polish government is responsible for the increase in prices in Poland, including gas prices. Well, 15% believes that this is the result of the European Union's policy and 11% believes that this is the result of Russia's policy. I think people have, so to speak, noses, even those who do not know economic matters, especially in the difficult energy market, in the oil and gas trade. It is worth recalling that in 2020 PGNiG signed a new agreement with Gazprom, and this new agreement is based on a new formula for converting prices into stock prices, spot prices. We remember how, after signing this agreement, and especially after winning arbitration... Because it is necessary to remind that the Polish government and PGNiG felt that fixing the price of gas on the basis of, as it was said, a complex system of average gas prices for several months was detrimental to the Polish side. This was brought before the arbitration tribunal of Gazprom, of course, and then the Polish side was terribly pleased about it, former press conferences, etc. At that time there was not yet a model which is in force in PiS now, when party billboards about the successes of the Polish government hang around Poland for public money. In any case, thanks to this arbitration, 6 billion PLN was obtained from Gazprom. I want to tell you that only in 2020, only from the middle of this year until the end of this year, PGNiG paid more than PLN 16 billion than it could pay before arbitration. Well, the price of gas was based on stock prices, not linked to oil prices. So it was crazy to get 6 billion from Gazprom and then to pay 16 billion, and only in this one year, in 2020. Then it was 2021, now it's 2022. But, of course, the Law and Justice Government and its Treasury companies are not to blame for what we are seeing today for these hundreds of percent increase. The inhibition of wind energy, the complete cessation of the development of biogas plants, now the suppression of energy from light, photovoltaics, non-investment in electricity transmission, de facto continuous carbon retention, the fight against windmills in terms of gas prices, and blame on others This is your strategy, this is the law and justice policy. Everyone's guilty, the whole world's guilty, not the Law and Justice. So I would like to say that, unfortunately, we will still have these problems if prices fall on the stock exchanges, because during these few years the rule of law and justice has created a dozen-year delay in the development of energy in Poland, mainly due to the inhibition of the development of RES. And we'll remember all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak either, but actually from this speaker. And it's the senators on this side. They pray: Donald come back, Tusk come back. For as I hear such voices: turn to Tusk, let Tusk deal with Ursula, etc... I want to make it clear that this means that the PiS government has abdicated that this government is no longer in place and that the only person in Poland who can deal with these problems is Donald Tusk. I agree with these Senators of the PiS. The sooner the PiS goes, the better for the Polish economy, the better for Poland. And actually, Donald Tusk can handle these things. You guys obviously aren't doing well. You guys obviously aren't doing well. These examples have been shown by various laws, and I will only refer to the story that I have raised. So to the contract signed with Gazprom for the supply of gas to Poland, which was so criticised, among others. by NIK. The only problem is that this contract ends at the end of 2022. There is no information on what deliveries will be made, what directions and with whom PGNiG negotiates. And this isn't a sandbox game, this is serious stuff. We should know as citizens as Poles I no longer say: as parliamentarians Who will supply gas after 2022 and from what directions this gas will be delivered. Because if I hear in a moment that we've built Baltic Pipe and we have signed a contract with the Danish concern Orsted for a supply of 1.1 billion m3, then I'll say it's a drop in the sea of needs. Besides, Baltic Pipe is not a pipeline that is directly from Norwegian deposits, but it is connected to a large European pipeline. There's a switchboard, and today this big European gas pipeline is working at full speed, and it's not gonna be crowded again, so we're not gonna get it from this direction. More gas. We just don't get it. And I assume the Minister and the people in the PiS government know that this is what it looks like. Therefore, once again I ask the question: how does the government plan to secure the supply of gas to the Republic of Poland, starting from the beginning of 2023? In particular, from what directions is it planned to obtain gas from? What will be the current and forward-looking gas balance in Poland in the coming years, especially during the 2023-2025 period? Maybe you know that. Does the government have any knowledge of how Gazprom Export intends to fulfil its capacity utilisation by the Jamaican pipeline, as agreed on 29 October 2010? That's what you should know. You should be doing this. Why aren't you running them? Does the government intend to take action to pursue claims by EuRoPol Gazprom Export against gas transmission charges for the period 2006 to 2009 in relation to the non-extension of the existing gas transit contract? You know the consequences. They made a commitment to use this pipeline until 2049. There's nothing going on right now. If the government intends to take action in this respect, please indicate what actions are planned, what and what time you will be doing so. Because right now we have this really sad picture: Donald, come back because the PIS government isn't doing well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u190	Yeah, remotely. Five minutes, Mr. Marshal. I'll try less. I just want to address this whole discussion. When at the beginning of the pandemic oil on the world markets was cheap and even at some point it was below zero, I asked our Orlenu why at our stations the price of fuel is practically not decreasing, and as it decreases, it is minimally, when the barrel is already costing cents. I got an answer that Orlen had such a stock of fuel bought at a very high price that he couldn't balance that price right now. It was kind of weird for me, 'cause there's some things you can predict. I understand that there are strategic reserves for the army or for the government, but it was strange behavior, because at all stations around, whether in the Czech Republic or Slovakia or even in Germany, fuel was much cheaper than ours. To conclude, I just want to talk about how PGNiG works on the example of the Green Mountain. There used to be a daughter company called Diamond. It was transformed, of course, into new people, new branches, financial flows, etc. And today's name is Exalo. And, of course, within a few years, from the moment the good change came, practically the entire staff was fired. The company was making good money, I think it even maintained the entire company's daughter in Poland. Most of the people who were in charge there, who knew about it, were paid off. Today, according to my knowledge, according to the people who worked there, everything goes down. Somebody was hired who didn't want to insult because I didn't know about things that were totally unrelated to mining, drilling, construction of anything, the person who comes from Warsaw for 2 days, practically nobody knows it, doesn't make any decisions. This is how PGNiG works. And then we, as residents, as people, as Poles, are to pay for incapacity, for bad prices on the stock exchange, which someone negotiates, for high costs of operation of the entire PGNiG. Well, it can't really be, it can't be. If it was a private company, it would look very different. But that's the company where someone's working today, they're not gonna work tomorrow, they're gonna take a briefing, they're gonna take a delegation, that's what it looks like, and we're gonna end up dropping all of this, paying taxes, paying 10 different transmission charges related to energy, gas, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u191	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the Senators of Bladder, Swede, Hibner, Mamątow, Gromko and Tyszkiewicz have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senators Szejnfeld and Gawłowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Once again, I stress that the aim of the law we have prepared is to protect gas consumers, as widely as we can act within the framework of the laws in force in Poland, Poland and the European Union. That is why I think that at least some of the senators who have called for the funding of gas consumers to be extended to business operators are aware that we cannot take this step. The key to protecting entrepreneurs from speculation Gazprom is not in Warsaw It is located in Brussels. Also in the international arena, the Polish government is very active, and Senator Frost spoke about it exhaustively. I think, regardless of political views, we are aware of this. It just didn't sound like it in every speech. That the highest gas price in history was the result of Vladimir Putin's speculation. Only in the fourth quarter of last year, Gazprom reduced gas supply to Europe by more than 10 billion m3. This puts pressure on price increases. We would like the European Commission, so active in many matters, such as Polish ones, in which we have a completely different opinion, to engage with such power in the fight against Wladimir Putin's gas blackmail. The Government of Law and Justice has considered the diversification of gas supply as one of the pillars of energy security in Poland since the first days. This is reflected in the expansion of the gas terminal named after President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście initiated by the holy memory of President Lech Kaczyński after another gas blackmail of Russia. It is also a return to the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, the third approach to connecting the Polish coast with Norwegian deposits. If the previous initiatives of the Law and Justice environment, broadly understood, because here I reach many years earlier than the initial two thousand years, were not destroyed by subsequent governments, today we would be talking about a safe, stable connection with deposits other than Russians. I would like to be able to predict what gas prices will be in the coming weeks, months. Mr. Senator was kind to say he knew the gas price wouldn't go up. Well, I envy such insight, because I don't know what Vladimir Putin will do. We do not know whether Vladimir Putin will attack Ukraine, attack Ukraine, or stop the supply of gas to Western Europe completely. But because to be prepared for different scenarios, we have secured funds in this bill. There was such an ironic tone of the statements of some countries that they would not be used. Yeah, I wish they weren't used. As a representative of the Polish government, I will say from this place: I would like to see that the funds secured by this law do not have to be used to compensate gas sellers. Because that would mean one more thing: this would mean that gas prices are falling in Europe and that will benefit all Poles, all entrepreneurs and all citizens of the European Union. But I emphasize: I don't know what Vladimir Putin will do, and I don't know if anyone in this room, despite all the speeches, knows. Signals that PGNiG is a state-owned company and should operate according to other rules... Well, ladies and gentlemen, we can't agree on that. PGNiG is a listed company on the Stock Exchange. Well, with great respect, but it's your environment that's been saying for over 30 years: the invisible hand of the market will do its job, the invisible hand of the market will sort out the entire market, there can be no intervention, and capital has no nationality. It turns out that in crisis situations and capital has nationality, and it is important that the key areas of the Polish state are in Polish hands. Wind farms and photovoltaics were saying that this is a way to develop. It's in the days of the Law and Justice government that we have record-breaking photovoltaics, but still... e.g. As far as wind farms are concerned, although we have much more power installed in 2021 than before, production from this power was less. This has also driven pressure on other raw materials for energy production. It's just that renewable energy sources are capricious. It's either energy, with favourable weather conditions, or it's not energy. As to the allegations that it was the Government of Law and Justice that indexed the contract with Gazprom to the Dutch TTF exchange instead of to oil prices, as it was concluded in 2010, I would allow myself to recall the statements of Senator Kazimierz Kleina from an interview in Polish Radio on 1 July 2020, that it was during the reign of the Platform and PSL in 2014 that a request was made to the arbitration tribunal on the return of this overpaid money. Also the former Minister of the Treasury, Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, with whom I worked in the Energy Commission, on the same day on Twitter, posted an entry that Gazprom had given Poland 1.5 billion dollars overpayments for gas delivered since November 2014, and added: the return ordered Stockholm arbitration, and I would remind you that the government of the Civic Platform had submitted an address to the tribunal with justification and documentation. etc., etc. But I don't want to attack here that this motion was made because it was a good decision. The International Energy Agency has calculated that if someone had been in Europe since 2010 on oil indexing, they would have lost about $70 billion, €70 billion, if I remember correctly. Maintaining this indexing in the opening of the European gas market would mean that for many years gas in Poland would still be more expensive, and gas from other countries could be sold to Poland, this cheap... simply other companies would have access to cheaper gas. Now, EuRoPol Gaz. ♪ It was coming ♪ in a few contexts. Ladies and gentlemen, this contract, this government agreement of 2010, wrapped up in some other secrets... This contract was crushed by a report from the Supreme Control Board. I would like to remind you that in addition to the unfavourable provisions on supplies to Poland, in terms of increasing the dependence of gas on the volume imported from Russia, when there was already a gas terminal in Świnoujście... These were some of the unfavorable elements of these negotiations for Poland. But there was also the situation that EuRoPol Gaz was suing Gazprom Export for gas sent by Polish territory, because EuRoPol Gaz believed that it should charge Gazprom with a tariff established by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, because we are in Poland and Gazprom wanted to pay much less. And EuRoPol Gaz began to win money for subsequent periods before the courts of the Russian Federation in the first and second instance. After the talks in Moscow it turned out that the presidents of EuRoPol Gazu began to alarm the government that they were under pressure from owners, PGNiG, Gazprom to waive these claims, even winnings. They alerted the government and then it turned out that they were canceled, and the new board of directors gave up that money. We are talking about the amount of about PLN 1 billion, which was already there, but we are also talking about higher rates which Poland could gain for the future. Why does Gazprom pay billions of dollars for the transport of gas through Ukraine and for the transport of pennies through Poland? That's the difference. And as for what's going on... the people who made this decision in 2019, at the turn of 2019 and 2020, heard prosecutorial charges. And once again, it's not the government of law and justice that has Rusophobia, because it's not the government of law and justice... A realistic view of Moscow's behaviour is a matter of Polish state law and requires convincing our partners in the international arena. I dare say that if the European Commission, if partners in European capitals such as Berlin, Brussels and others, listened to Poland's voice that Gazprom does not operate in a free market, that Nord Stream 2 is not a business project, but a strictly political project through which Russia will gain additional tools to exert political pressure on its neighbours... If these people, these institutions listened to the voice of Poland, today, I dare say, we would not have this problem. Because in fact, this gas blackmail has two main goals. Firstly, in addition to EU regulations, the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is allowed to be used so that the Russian and German gas pipeline can be privileged without the Union's energy solidarity, disregarding the principles of the free gas market in Europe. It's going to be a Putin project. Berlin is based on exceptional privileges. This creates the risk of disrupting the gas market throughout the Union, putting pressure on the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, threatening the security of life, functioning of Ukraine. These are the things we've been talking about for years. And the fact that this gas pipeline is still empty is due to the Polish diplomacy and the determination with which we conducted our partners in the international arena, because compared to this gas pipeline Nord Stream 2 Vladimir Putin built himself like butter. The second point is to force long-term Russian gas contracts on European customers. And as far as these contracts are concerned, we have seen many times ourselves. If there's something wrong with Russia in the international arena in political relations, there could always be some kind of tap, some tap, some valve, and gas that stops flowing. This is now painfully experienced by Moldova. It is not in Poland's interest to chain itself to the gas chain of Gazprom for the next several decades, but to free ourselves from Russian domination. We want to have a business relationship with all our neighbors. We want to have good political relations with all our neighbours, but on equal partner rights. That's the point. If the European Union listened to Warsaw's voice, we would be talking about a significant increase in gas supply to Europe and the possibility of bringing gas to Europe from non-Russian sources, as Poland does. Then Gazprom would not have a dominant position to exert such pressure and hit such crazy prices in order to run Nord Stream 2 and force further long-term contracts. Therefore, I would ask that we discuss this in the Sejm with this law, put aside the current policy. Let's take a look at these gas prices, this Vladimir Putin blackmail, but also helplessness. European Commission That's what I'm gonna say. They touch our citizens regardless of their political beliefs. We want to protect those we can cover with this bill. I would not like to get any impression, even for a moment, that Vladimir Putin's gas blackmail can be used by anyone to attack the government, regardless of who is in charge in Poland at any given time. Therefore, I kindly ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u193	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the sitting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 610 and the committee report In print No 610 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! Minister! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Energy Law adopted by the Sejm on 13 January 2022. The Commission was discussing this law yesterday. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. The 10 senators voted in favour of this law without amendments, no one opposed it, no one abstained. The Act introduces changes in the area of the right to refuse the supply of gas fuel distribution services by energy undertakings which are part of a vertically integrated undertaking engaged in an economic activity in the distribution of gas fuels using a gas network supplied exclusively from local sources and not connected to other gas networks. In the current state of law, an undertaking enjoying the right granted by the Act "Energy Law" could refuse to provide services and only later request the President of the URE to issue a decision in this regard. In the event of a negative outcome, the company could appeal to the competition court and consumers and then, in the event of a repeated adverse judgment, appeal. Until a final decision was taken, the company had no obligation to provide distribution services. In practice, this law was abused by excessive lengthening of proceedings by both the URE and the review procedure before the courts. The length of the proceedings before and before the courts was measured in years, which prevented effective implementation of the objectives of the directive, which the provisions were intended to implement. This has intensified the distortions in the competition market and raised social unrest, which culminated in the protests in November 2021 related to a few hundred percent increase in gas prices for consumers connected to the gas network of companies using existing rules to consolidate their monopoly position. Following the adoption of this Act, an undertaking which intends to refuse to provide services for the distribution of gaseous fuels will have to obtain an URE decision exempting from the obligation to provide before such refusal. This will make him interested in obtaining a final decision as soon as possible. This will have a positive impact on the market and will ensure the protection of consumers' rights. The Act will have a positive impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, the introduction of uniform rules on access to gas distribution networks will increase legal certainty, including for smaller gas operators. At the same time, it should be assumed that, as a consequence of the exclusion of this law, the possibility of denying access to the local gas network, without waiting for the decision of the President of the URE in this respect, for alternative suppliers, such small and medium-sized enterprises will gain access to the customers connected to those networks to a greater extent. The Act will enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u195	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Did the committee's meeting even mention how this law deals with an issue that has recently been present in public space? I'm thinking about investors here, for example. build new buildings, new housing estates and have problems with obtaining gas connections, which makes it difficult to receive and allow the necessary premises for use. What effect will this bill have? Was this issue raised at the meeting? It's very emotional. Well, someone's invested and they're just taking real losses. He has invested in the investment, but it is not possible to use it within the expected time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u197	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u198	Senator, this is a question you should ask the Polish Gas Company. It wasn't about the committee meeting. That wasn't the question. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u199	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There's no envoy. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There are two ministers, Mr. Piotr Dziadzio and Mr. Rafał Gawin, associated institutions... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: The bill was clearly presented by the Senator and does not require any additional addition from us.]] Good. Who did I have the pleasure with? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Piotr Dziadzio.]] Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... At present, of course, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to government representatives. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u200	Minister! I'll repeat the question. I would ask you to tell me a little more than the Senator rapporteur, who said that this was not the case at the committee meeting. Is this problem being monitored? How does he fit into the draft bill? I'm talking about the fact that there's information that investors can't connect their properties built on the basis of a legal building permit, after all arrangements, to a gas network. This practically prevents the operation of buildings and for this reason investors are suffering losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u201	Thank you. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office, as well as the chief geologist and representative of the government for the raw materials policy of the state, may be responsible here. It seems to me that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office is more competent here. There you go. President Rafał Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u202	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, To answer your question, I'll say it seems... That is, in our view, this has no impact because the costs you mentioned are distribution costs and distribution activities are regulated activities. They shall be carried over in the tariff of each operator or distribution undertaking, in this case gas. However, I understand that any costs that may arise are costs that could not be transferred or recovered as a result of a change in the seller. They could be the costs resulting from the trade agreement. But when you make a trade agreement... This is always the risk of any entrepreneur who operates in the electricity market. It's about the risk that the recipient can change the seller. In the connection part... This is the part concerning distribution, in this case gas, and there are always costs carried over in the tariff activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u203	Minister, it seems the senator was asking why he wasn't... [[Maybe I can explain my question because...]] It's about buildings that aren't connected, not costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u204	Yes, sir. I mean, this is the situation. There is a new building, there is a building permit, the investor is applying for a gas connection and because of prices or for other reasons this service is denied it. This is set aside for a period of 2 and 3 years, which in the case of investments... I've heard about these cases in the media. It just puts the investor on the shoulder, I speak colloquial. Is this the situation you've heard or not heard of? Does the Energy Regulatory Office have any knowledge in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u205	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u206	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, we have knowledge of the refusals of connection, but this law does not apply at all. She's referring to a change in the seller, which is a business that doesn't involve gas distribution at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u207	Thank you. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u208	I would like to ask you about... because we are dealing with changes in the energy law that relate to the article. 4h etc. I would like to ask when the rules governing the situation that we now want to change have been adopted. [[Mr. Senator, who is this question to? Because there are two ministers.]] To the most competent... [[The Energy Regulatory Office or the main geologist of the country?]] To the representative of the Council of Ministers. Well, I don't know who's here... Gentlemen will determine who will answer that question. I would like to address the government side: when, in what year have these laws been implemented, which we are now repealing, are we amending?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u209	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u210	So I answer the senator's question. The Act entered into force on 3 July 2021, which is the Act of 20 May. She's been cleaning up all the issues that haven't been dealt with so far, and so... And some of the issues that have arisen in today's situation, which is linked to the rise in gas prices, have been highlighted very clearly. It therefore requires a modification at the moment. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u212	Thank you very much. I'm addressing the president. The point is, if that's the case... Well, that bill doesn't apply, as you mentioned. But what should an investor do in such a situation? Well, what's he supposed to do to run his legally built investment and just hand it over to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I, of course, answer from the regulatory side. I represent the office, which is the central administration, and of course I only move to the extent that the law defines it. In the event of a refusal to join, it is possible to request the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to settle the dispute. Since the connection is a public obligation, it is governed by Article. 8 the Energy Law. In this respect, the sectoral regulator is, of course, entitled to assess whether there are economic and technical conditions for connection. If these exist, of course, we can, in the context of an administrative decision, say in simplification, order such a connection. Well, then we settle the dispute and determine whether there is a public obligation or whether the technical conditions for connection are met, of course, subject to the fact that no administrative decision is a final decision. She can be challenged in a two-instant mode, so here we are already dealing with the power of the court, which in these two instances can indeed verify such an administrative decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. As I can see, there are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written reply to... Excuse me. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of 2021, Polish energy collided with the concrete wall. If we do not act immediately, the Polish state will forever lose the credibility of the guarantee of energy security. The energy transformation presented by the Polish government, based on the 2 pillars of gas and nuclear, is a bad solution for Poland. You have to act differently and right away. At present, it is very risky to shift all costs of incompetence and bad strategic choices to energy end-users. This means growing even faster than today's energy costs, and the Polish economy living largely from exports may not be able to bear it. We are looking forward to a time of enormous investment effort, for which we may not find financing. The situation of the energy sector could be aggravated. Different types of interstate agreements can lead to colonization of the entire energy sector to the detriment of the economy of Poland and its citizens. In the energy transition process, decisions need to be made and from concept, from plans to implementation. We need to use the resources we have in Poland as well as use the energy from the wind and the sun. We can't just create ideas, be afraid of making decisions. There is currently no time for other actions if we want to further support the energy transformation of other countries, so-called. fair transformation, and pay for energy imports of 1 thousand PLN per MWh. Poland has a very well developed agri-food sector. We have more than 1.5 million hectares of agricultural land than Germany, and we have only 128 biogas plants. At that time, Germany built 9 thousand such installations with a total capacity of 6 GW. As we know, biogas plants can work up to 8,000 hours a year. And it's very important in the whole energy mix. Our western neighbours have also recently built 120 GW photovoltaic installations and 80 GW wind farms. This is very important. That's why we see this direction of German... And even in these analyses, it should be taken into account that renewable energy has a 6-fold higher efficiency than the one that comes from the combustion of oil, gases, etc. That's why, Minister, if we don't get to work, we don't take a step, we lose everything, we lose our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm just going to say a few sentences, because it's hard not to notice that we're dealing with another case of the Law and Justice government causing chaos, and then putting out this fire with the opposition as well. In fact, in recent times it is difficult to identify a law that goes to the Sejm and then to the Senate and which does not have that character. The Last Chaos In fact, drama and tragedy, because this chaos affects most citizens in Poland. This is, of course, everything that brings Poland's Load. So the topic we are talking about here is such a proverbial squeak in the chaos caused by the Polish Load. But I just asked when the laws that we're now amending came into force. Because that's what these laws are about. I'll put it in a nutshell. That an entity which does not agree to enter into its transmission system an energy carrier from another undertaking may not agree to this and ask the President of the URE for a decision. If she gets a negative decision, she can, of course, sue the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and even make an appeal. And in fact, this process is getting longer. Except it was passed a year ago. And again, life had to verify what we said before, but in this case they also performed for example. inhabitants and self-governments of Tarnow Podgórny from my Wielkopolska. What I mean by that is that, first of all, we, as the opposition, will of course support this bill, because this change is necessary and necessary, but, secondly, And that's more important in this case. We appeal to you in government, reminding you of the years past or pointing out other democratic states of Europe and the world, where laws are not adopted from one minute to the next, from one hour to the next. There are no laws adopted at night, at four or five in the morning, in such a way that Members do not even have the time to read the proposed rules, and let us refer them to experts, to public consultations, to reflect on them. In other countries where there is respect for the law and respect for citizens, parliamentary work lasts for months, because it is the law, as long as it is at the stage of the project, it consults with citizens, asks for the opinion of experts, analyzes the potential effects, and positives, and negatives, and only then raises the hand. And we're here at this Senate meeting today, but the last one was, we've been looking at and we're going to look at the laws that my colleagues in the Sejm are telling me that their designs were given the day before. There were also such draft laws that they received in the morning, and already during the day they had to work on them, develop their positions and make decisions. Well, that's just absurd! There is no other country in the world where law is created in this way. And the result is not only that it is fatal, not only that it must always be modified, modified, improved, but also that instead of serving citizens, it harms them, harms citizens, harms society, harms the state. We appeal: change this rule or leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I also inform you that Senators Alexander Szwed, Władysław Komarnicki, Mariusz Gromko and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the sitting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 618, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 618 A and 618 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Minister! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services adopted by the Sejm on 13 January 2022. After examining this law and after the committee debate, the committee requests that this law be adopted without amendment. 11 senators voted in favour, no one abstained and no one opposed. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] The draft law provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services, hereinafter referred to as the VAT Act, whose main purpose is to implement measures in the field of taxation aimed at countering the effects of inflation. The project provides for a temporary reduction of VAT between 1 February 2022 and 31 July 2022, i.e. for 6 months. And so for the food currently covered by the VAT rate 5% For the 0% rate ; for fuel, diesel, biocomponents constituting self-fuel, motor gasoline, LPG LPG at a rate of 23% up to 8% ; for fertilisers, plant protection products, gardening land and other agricultural products at 8% rate up to 0% ; natural gas For the 0% rate ; for electricity and heat It's up to a rate of 5%. The amendments proposed in the Act are a continuation of the anti-inflationary measures developed in 2021, including the continuation of the VAT reductions introduced for this purpose from 1 January 2022. The reduction in VAT rates between 1 February and 31 July will result in a reduction in the revenue of the State budget for the tax on goods and services of about PLN 11.6 billion. For food and drinks covered by the VAT rate from 5% to 0% That's about PLN 2.92 billion. As far as motor fuels and other fuels are concerned, a reduction of 23% up to 8% It is these losses in the revenue of the state budget that will be at the level of PLN 3.11 billion. In the case of fertilisers, plant protection products, gardening land, 8% reduction up to 0% Approximately PLN 0.52 billion. Natural gas reduction up to 0% about PLN 2.09 billion; for electricity up to a VAT rate of 5% It is about PLN 2.3 billion; for heat energy up to a rate of 5% it is about PLN 0.67 billion. The VAT rate for the period from 1 February, as I said, will be 0% for foodstuffs. All these proposals have already been put forward by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that my previous speaker presented all the general principles of this law, I will only allow myself to focus on the debate that we held during the committee meeting. I must draw attention to the fact that, in fact, in humble words in his statement, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, presented the principles of this law to us, so we have allowed ourselves to develop certain elements. First of all, we focused on whether the amendment of this law is compatible with EU law. We know perfectly well, also the Legislative Office has said this and it has said that there are 3 indications that actually confirm that there are no EU law in these three locations. We are referring here to the issue that we can reduce the rate for goods that are in a specific annex, but for example. in this case, the motor fuels are not in it. That's one thing. The second issue related to EU law, where we are talking about the fact that reductions are envisaged for foodstuffs... No reduction is foreseen for food goods to the VAT rate of 0%. That's two. And the third point: to this day, there has not really been a mandatory consultation on this matter. We asked the government representative whether the relevant speeches to the European Commission were sent. We have been informed that yes, but there is no answer as to the issues raised in these speeches. This is the first part of what we discussed at the committee meeting. The second point that we have really been raising in committee meetings for months, but also in the proceedings of the High House, is a matter of preserving the period of vacathio legis. Here, of course, we also say this with regret, this principle has not been preserved. There is a shortage of this law, in the case of these solutions, of discussions on this matter, of any public debate. Of course, the Minister has provided information that this is a temporary act in some sense, i.e. a set of assumptions for a certain period of time, as the previous speaker, the rapporteur from the economic committee said, but this element has also been highlighted on our part. The third issue we have been leaning on during the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is that, for example, goods, food products, which, as you know, are subject on the one hand to VAT of 5% or less. , or 23% , or 8% ... Only those charged with 5% VAT will be released or imposed on them so-called. VAT zero rate. To our question, why was such a basket used or used such a type of choice of goods, we received a dissatisfying answer that this is the consequence of previously adopted solutions in the anti-crisis shield 1.0. We raised our doubts and made it clear that there was nothing to prevent the law we are amending from extending the new range of goods subject to higher tax, in this case or 23%. , or 8%. With some surprise, of course, we accepted the information... I don't know if you know that mineral water is charged with 23% tax. , i.e. de facto for this product, which we have used several times today during the Senate meeting, this tax will not be abolished to a level of 0%. Of course, it's my digression, kind of with a smile on my face. I'll get back to the committee meeting. We have also asked, it seems, a key question, at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we must ask such questions, which will be the cost for the state budget; I am talking about these exemptions or tax changes. We didn't get an answer here either. Of course, ahead of your question, I can say that the knowledge we have shows that it will be ok. 11 billion PLN, i.e. this is the cost of changes to this VAT law. And perhaps the most important thing, which was also raised several times today at the meeting of the High House, for example in the gas debate. We asked a very important question, why in these solutions, where we say there is a release, as my previous speaker said, for the natural gas carrier, so the name is omitted at the end of the customer of liquid gas, i.e., the simplest way to say LPG. I don't know if you know that I'm talking about different constructions, including these famous 11-kilogram cylinders, but we have almost 4 million customers in the country about LPG tanks. Therefore, the question is: why were these recipients or this type of heat left out, for example, in these VAT exemptions in this law? We didn't get an answer to that question or the answer was: such records were in the act, in the shield 1.0, so these are also records in the case of the shield 2.0. We clearly and clearly said that it is not possible to leave out much of the county Poland, because we know very well that it is the social group that uses this connection or the connection to this type of fuel. We know perfectly well the debate held today a few hours ago also showed this. The Polish Gas Company has and will have huge problems in 2022 when it comes to building new connections or new gas grids in our country, in every voivodship. I repeat: in every voivodship. Therefore, we ask why those who use LPG today are left out in solutions that are supposed to relieve them at the end of the day when it comes to paying bills. We said more. There was the government's clean air program, there was the encouragement of local governments to throw the coops out to get out of the coal, out of the heating of the houses with coal. A lot of people, thousands of people have taken up this challenge. Thousands of people took credit and changed their heating systems. You know very well that in the village of PGNiG PSG does not invest in non-profitable projects There is no network, there is no connection to one building which is in the field, because it simply does not pay commercially. We can't miss out on this audience and we talked about it out loud. We're happy for you. We also told him about it. That, for example, the Polish Organisation of Liquid Gas, the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the National Council of Poultry Jointly requested the Committee of the Budget to amend the Act. I would like to tell you that the committee has accepted this proposal. We have introduced 7 amendments, which largely respond to the expectations of these organisations, which I have just enumerated. There is another issue that, I am not hiding, has aroused some emotions during the sitting of our committee, namely the fact that in the article. 2 laws appeared at least strange records. They are strange because they are a little native of the Polish People's Republic. At the cashiers or at the points where the purchase, sale, payment will take place, there will be a notice of this charge, not a different VAT rate. We ask: why and for whom? What's the information? We didn't say... Here you can also pull up a thread about changing the tax cash register system, etc., etc. Now, about what I just said, I'm gonna point out that we're gonna be insinuating. That's what we applied to at the committee meeting. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2... to actually get rid of such a typical propaganda example. We would like to recommend you to support such a proposal. I would like to inform you that a lobbyist took part in the committee meeting. I think that with regard to the committee's work and its conclusions, the debate that has been held... I practically presented it to you in its entirety. Bottom line, we're putting a bill of amendment to the High Senate. Please accept these amendments. The committee's proposal is a proposal to adopt an amendment act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Andrzej Costowniak was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no envoy. The Senators can't ask questions to the Member if he's not here. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mariusz Gojny: Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. Anything, Mr Minister, the senators may report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a representative of the government, of course related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, he has a question for you. What's it like with this flat-rate tax refund on farmers? Everyone's trying to point out that it's neutral, but I've been trying to analyze it, and it's not working for me. I'd like to know if it's really... for milk will be 100 PLN and 5 PLN, if we eliminate 5% VAT, it will be 100 PLN. If this is a vat farmer, he'll have 105 zlotys. And if it is a flat-rate farmer, will it be paid 105 or 100 PLN? What's it gonna look like? Will a lump sum be returned to him? Because it was under another law and a lump sum... Or, for example, The dairy will pay VAT to the state budget, will there be 105 zlotys, or will there be any difference? Because farmers who are vatists, I think they're gonna lose a little bit of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u225	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mariusz Gojny: Mr Marshal, I would like to cast my vote to the Director of the VAT Department in the Ministry of Finance, Mr Paul Seler.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u226	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would like to kindly inform you that, with regard to active VAT taxable persons, this change is de facto neutral as regards farmers and is beneficial as regards flat-rate clearing farmers. The lump sum is unchanged, that's 7%. In other words, if a flat-rate farmer delivers the goods, the farmer is exempt and receives VAT from the purchaser in the price. If e.g. he bought fertilizers, they're covered by a zero rate. Thus, this change for flat-rate farmers clearing themselves by the lump sum method is beneficial. For taxable persons active VAT it is neutral in the sense that in the classic system VAT taxable person, the farmer clearing himself as an active VAT taxable person, and the VAT due and charged... In fact, it is neutral, the mechanism at zero will be similar, so it is economically neutral in this case. I have prepared numerical examples, so why don't we just send these examples to the senator, see if he can illustrate the change well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the senator has an extra question. But we're also writing down a statement from the department regarding the written answer to the senator's question. Please, Mr. Senator, ask me another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u228	I'd like to add to the question. I understand that the dairy that counted 6.5% ...The same rate will be for the farmer, who is both a flat-rate and a full-rate vat, i.e. the 106.5 zł... The price of 106 zł will be paid to the farmer who is a flat-rater, and to the one who is a flat-rater, only that one will not have a VAT refund, and this one will have this flat-rate refund. Is that the way it's supposed to be, or the other way around? [[The voice from the room: I'll explain it...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u229	I ask the Minister or your Director, on a follow-up basis, to provide an additional answer to the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u230	Mr. Senator, in writing, we're going to show you this because it's actually the best way to see it. And briefly, I might refer to the fact that, as far as flat-rate farmers are concerned, the rate of VAT is 7%. and it looks like the buyer pays the supplier the price plus this VAT 7%. It's not changed here. This is particularly beneficial for a flat-rate farmer at a time when he buys, for example, a flat-rate farmer. fertilisers subject to a zero rate, because then, assuming it translates into a price, simply pays less for the goods he buys. Thus, the benefit to flat-rate farmers can be seen very clearly, because in the current legal state a flat-rate farmer buys fertilisers subject to tax on goods and services, so he pays for no more than after the change, which will reduce the VAT rate to zero, and on the sales side it will be as it is today, i.e. the flat-rate will be paid into his account. In the case of taxable persons, the active situation depends on what our farmer sells, what our farmer buys. If he sells goods covered e.g. The zero food rate is going to be zero. So these situations are very different. I think it's our examples too. 'Cause they're gonna be the best way to see it, 'and they're gonna solve any doubts about your senator.' But I would like to sum it up in two words: for farmers who are taxable persons, active VAT is an economically neutral change, and for flat-rate taxpayers, especially small ones, this is a positive change, because the flat-rate rate is 7%. it will not change, and when buying goods, a flat-rate farmer with a preference will pay for it de facto less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Director. I don't see... Oh, there you go. Mr. Senator Bober.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u232	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, or preparations, biopreparations, which are also used as agricultural inputs and are subject to a VAT rate of 23% will they also be included in the discount? This is a large group of preparations, and in the context of the introduction of Green Deal it is a very beneficial solution that has now introduced... I don't want to lecture here, but this is a whole group of preparations, active microorganisms, which are used to improve the quality of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. Any of you, members of the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u234	In the current form of legislation, we have a reduction in preferences for fertilisers, plant protection products used for agricultural production, gardening land... This is about those basic fertilisers that are used in agriculture, plus measures to improve soil properties, i.e. those that are currently covered by the rate of 8% ... They will be subject to a preference... [[And the rate of 23%?]] Those which are at a rate of 23% at this point, they do not fall within this scope.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Director. Thank you, government representatives. I don't see any more requests for questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Chróścikowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our committee, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, has dealt with this law very carefully. We, as a majority of the committees, have found that it is clearly unfair, i.e. in the form in which this law came to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. It prefers only certain taxpayers, some citizens of the Republic of Poland. It is unfair in the sense that people who use other sources of heat... Because only those who can use the fuel of natural gas are privileged. It seems absolutely unacceptable. This law is not a law designed to propose a certain ecological, greener or less ecological solution, but is a law designed to help citizens overcome the problems of high inflation. That is why I believe, and so the majority of committees, that we should introduce rules which will treat all the citizens of the Republic of Poland using different sources to heat their households and their businesses in a uniform and uniform manner. It is not understandable at all that the reduced VAT rate applies to natural gas, and all those users who use other sources of heat, and therefore also liquid gas, propane-butane, so we would briefly say They would pay VAT at a basic rate of 23%. If it is remembered that the price of natural gas is a regulated price, relatively lower than the price of liquid gas, and yet its users receive the privilege of reduced VAT, this case is completely incomprehensible, moreover, unfair. We disagree and hence our amendments. And that doesn't just apply to those with gas cylinders. Although this is also important and we should respect these people too. Because it's also about the whole villages or the towns in which inside these settlements, the city centers... There are also gas networks that are distributed to individual households. Large gas tanks are on the outskirts of cities or municipalities, from there this fuel is transported by tanks and delivered to individual customers or to entrepreneurs. And those people who have solved their heat supply problem in this way are victimized by this law. It belongs to me... And that is what all your senators are asking you to support this amendment. Because you can't divide people into those who enjoy this privilege, that they have natural gas, that is, most often people living in large urban centers, metropolises, and people living in villages living in smaller centres. They will be wronged twice because they do not have a regulated price when it comes to the supply of this gas, and they also have a maximum VAT rate. And we here, in these amendments, have also introduced adjustments for all other energy sources, e.g. purchase of pellets. Today Pellet is often also used for heating apartments. The price of this pellets in recent months has increased from 800 PLN for 1 t to 1 thousand 400 PLN. And, of course, you don't take these people into account. The price of coal and coke went up the same way. Why should these users pay VAT at the maximum rate, and only one category of people who were lucky enough to have their natural gas transmission network expanded will receive an additional discount? In addition to the fact that they benefit from the VAT discount, they will still receive a discount resulting from the regulated price of this particular heat source. We do not, of course, want to deprive these people of this privilege, but we believe that we need to treat everyone equally and introduce rules that will regulate this issue in this way. Remember when we talked about excise duty on the last act? Then, in the Senate, we drew attention to the users of light fuel oil. And in the Senate, an amendment was prepared to lower this rate. As with other heat sources, excise duty was to be reduced here. Then Minister Patkowski... Pytkowski or Patkowski? Minister Patkowski said that this would lead to fraud, that farmers would use this light fuel oil for agricultural purposes or as diesel in vehicles, tractors, cars, etc. Well, that's an absolutely absurd argument. We couldn't move excise duty on light fuel oil here, but we suggest you accept it. at least lower the VAT rate to the level applicable to other heat sources. Well, that's, I think, elementary justice. And all these cases we've been looking into. We have described all these products as separate amendments so that you can look at each situation individually here in the Senate. Also in the Seym, if anywhere, in relation to any product, there were doubts... Where possible, please take a positive look at these amendments. If something had not received this support, it would have been possible to reject individual amendments. All these amendments, which we propose and which should be made, lead to such elementary justice that all citizens in Poland are treated the same way that they do not favour the inhabitants who have these systems, namely de facto the inhabitants of the metropolis, large urban centers, where this system of heat supply is organized by the city. Well, there's a lot of audiences out there, it's in metropolitan centers. It can't be like this. I don't agree. Most of the committees have made this case clear. And the last thing I want to point out is this propaganda. Such a principle could be accepted in Poland And I'm even in favour of it. In order for each product to be sold, information about the net price and the VAT price should be provided. Let's make this about all the products, that's okay. In some countries there are practices in the world, and this is good, because then the buyer sees the part in which it consists of the needs of the general public, for all citizens, for the benefit of the state. But making propaganda out of these selected products, and it's only for six months, which is just to show that the government is so good, so wonderful that something is lowering here, it's just completely absurd. These are extra costs. Today we should think about how to save, how to eliminate those costs that are unnecessary. These are the costs that the entrepreneur will have to do, that there will have to be some information boards, some other things. Why? Why is this propaganda needed? This isn't necessary at all. People already feel that this VAT is to be reduced, but you still want great propaganda to follow, preferably in the media, etc. And the absurd thing is that now in the media, there's still news that the government is lowering something, something, something, something. It's all costing money. Every commercial on TV That's the cost. Why would you do that? Who does that serve? This isn't necessary. It's better to do more and less talk. It is better to propose, to say what solutions limiting inflation should be, because acting only VAT or manipulating taxes does not solve the problem of inflation. It'll bounce back in a while, unfortunately, it might bounce back. So first of all, we need to pay attention to reducing unserviceable expenses, meaningless or absolute waste. We also need to take a look, unfortunately, at some of the big projects that are trying to implement the PiS and where there is nothing so far. There are only some enclosed fields somewhere near Warsaw or Łódź. They say there's gonna be some big investments, and there's gonna be some big investments. It is not known whether they will ever be Today they cost millions, millions of zlotys. Not so long ago, because this morning at the committee meeting we found out... About what? About the fact that the State Treasury bought the company Energetika Jądrowa from companies of the State Treasury 2 for over 500 million zlotys. So the State Treasury bought back from the companies of the State Treasury a company that was designed to build a nuclear power plant. Over 500 million zlotys were thrown into the mud. After all, this company was set up to achieve its purpose. And the minister says that these companies, namely Orlen, PGE and others, couldn't handle it, and now the Treasury, the board appointed by the minister, etc., will handle it better. He said there must be a special purpose company, etc. But we also talked about today, for example. companies... [[Timer signal]] ...builders of wind energy at sea have already established such specialized companies and do so... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Sure. Thank you very much. So I say: more rationality, more savings, so to speak, openness to various other things, and less manipulation of taxes and especially propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u238	Senator Kleina's voice. It's like a cry in the woods... Yes? [[Voice from the hall: In the desert.]] How? [[Voice from the hall: In the desert.]] In the desert. Yeah, the forest in Poland was, after the PiS there will be a desert. I wonder how the Treasury negotiated with the Treasury the redemption of the Treasury company. And why it turns out he's gonna buy back half a billion zlotys, not 400 million or maybe five million. It would be interesting to look at these negotiations of the State Treasury with the State Treasury regarding the company of the State Treasury. Dear people, this is how some governments, especially dictatorial states, have the so-called. Ministry of Propaganda. But Poland is probably different from those bad examples, that actually every ministry is now a ministry of propaganda. In fact, we could say that we have a government of propaganda, because, practically speaking, it would be difficult to recall any initiative of the Government of Law and Justice that has not been built up with propaganda, and that is generally costing millions of dollars. Whatever the Prime Minister says or sneezes, there are huge billboards all over Poland that say that the Prime Minister sneezed. Recently, billboards say that since January 1 we have New Deal, and in fact we have New Chaos, which is another chaos. And why am I talking about this on the occasion of this bill? I don't know if any of you are familiar with her. This is the bill we're discussing today. She's got four cartel girls. This is a law on amending the act on the tax on goods and services. But it should be called a law amending the Law on value added tax and services and practicing government propaganda Law and Justice, because as soon as you look at it, you'll notice that it has practically 2 articles that half of this law concerns the reduction of VAT and half of the party propaganda of the government. I even counted in verses because I didn't have time to count in signs, in words, which is more important here, content or propaganda. I got 33 poems to 33 poems, that's half-fifty-fifty, half-fifty-fifty, half-fifty propaganda. According to this propaganda, it is forced whether or not it wants to force itself by law, I hope that this will not work, because we have tabled an amendment on the deletion of it, entrepreneurs, service providers, all those covered by this law, to have this propaganda practiced at the cash register, at the cash register, because in some cases it is the money to print it, and where it does not print, this information is to be next to the cash register. In all these cases, when for various reasons you don't get an invoice at the cashier, an account, for example. they are sent, this entrepreneur is still supposed to deliver this propaganda. To conclude, I want you to do the job, not the propaganda, because, you know, people in Poland are smart. And as they see someone working well, working well, they even appreciate it, and they don't have to keep saying it over and over again, writing on the bill, invoice, billboard, talk on the TV, radio, etc. Do you know when you have to say it, when you have to repeat it, when you have to write on all these posters, flyers, banners, billboards, and report it to the spot? Only when you can't rule, you can't work, there's no effect, and you have to convince people. You want to tell people you're in charge here, too. But this law, like the previous one, energy law, and the previous one, in short called gas law, is evidence. Only that you can't rule and that you can't rule. And it can't be agreed to. So that's the article. 2 must be removed from this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... Oh, sorry, you're still Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bierecki just called and said he wanted to join the floor, and it's not written down. [[Voice from the room: It's...]] Okay? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the government for making such an effort. Maybe he's too small to expect this inflation that is, but some effort is being made. The fact that we as farmers will partially benefit from this... As we are talking about shields that protect consumers, which also protect agriculture... My agricultural union has asked the Prime Minister to... If we are talking about different shields, then let it also be a shield that clearly tells which part of the farmers is involved and which gives us the opportunity... It can be said that it covers all citizens, and therefore there is certainly an element relating to and to agriculture. In the case of a reduction in VAT on fertilisers, it is indeed a relief, but it does not compensate us for those prices which, in connection with the increase in gas prices that we have already discussed here and today we are discussing which influence... It's not exactly what the opposition says it's the government's fault. The previous speaker mentioned here, the Minister, who said that it was Putin's fault, let's just call it, it is the fault of the European Union, which does not listen, does not follow these demands, which we repeatedly submit... What this situation has led to right now... Because the price of gas is a very important component in fertilizer production. Indeed, fertilisers, as they cost, say, a thousand something with pennies, so now they cost, depending on where, sometimes a little less, but already close to 4,000. This price is so much higher that the 23% It doesn't compensate us, and that's why we've gone to the government many times, and today I'm asking the Minister to apply a support mechanism, to find compensation for farmers for rising fertiliser prices. There's a mechanism that works well when you add to your agricultural fuel. Farmers who buy fertilisers, as in the case of agricultural fuels, could be compensated. We are already talking about this in Brussels, the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are in Brussels, talking about agreeing to compensate farmers. This could, of course, result in a reduction in production costs and, at the same time, not raising prices, not causing such inflation. 'Cause if we pay that price, 4,000 for the saltpeter, so many times more, I'm sorry, but he's gonna have to cut the grain, he's gonna have to cut the rape, the other products have to go, because there's no way out at that cost. It's going to translate into inflation. If we do not apply and the European Commission does not notice this subject... Because it's not a problem. only Poland, this is a European problem, because the prices of fertilisers all over Europe have gone up. Therefore, we also ask for the use of such a mechanism, which we propose, as is the refund of excise duty in agricultural fuel, i.e.: invoice, purchased fertilisers... It's not supposed to be for every farmer, whether he's sowing or not, it's for a particular farmer who costs money to do it... Such proposals shall be made by the agricultural chambers, shall be submitted by the association of the "Solidarity' of the farmers, other associations shall be made. Consider this possibility, because this is an anti-inflationary action so as not to raise the prices of agricultural raw materials, which then results in further price increases. In the case of milk, as the Minister here, the Director explains to me, there will be no loss to farmers. As I listen to farmers, but not quite so, there are differences of opinion. I think farmers can count, and they say they will actually have some losses, because they will not write back this VAT, because the costs of other ingredients that they buy into the farm as those that are refundable VAT... Now, this VAT isn't billed at the moment, but they're paying other... And now it's gonna look like they're gonna be less able to write back that VAT, because if they didn't pay it, they're not gonna... And the price is going to be the same as the VAT price anyway, so if it's going to be the same as the VAT price, then the question is actually... Will they really or will they not? There are a lot of comments from farmers, they call here from dairy cooperatives, explain that it might not actually be a good system. I don't know, we'll check it out. I'll see what the director said. They say it's also made by the Ministry of Agriculture, some kind of interpretation in this case, it didn't get to us, and that's why I've been sharing these questions... If it is as your director shows that it will be neutral and that it will be for the benefit of these farmers, then let's assume that it is, but a hot request to take further action in order to reduce inflation by just lowering production costs and not pulling this chain over and over again. That's all I'd like to say. Thank you once again to the government for taking these measures, of course, also due to the intervention of agricultural organisations, the unions which demand that inflation be lowered. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u241	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not refer to the entire bill, the Minister has presented it brilliantly. I think he will also address this discussion. But I was very moved by the statements of Senator Kleina and Senator Sheinfeld on the alleged propaganda contained in this bill. Gentlemen, the senators forget the important tool that we have adopted in many tax laws. And yet here we are dealing with a tax law, a law which is intended to affect the way taxes are collected, their amount and, finally, the behaviour of the entities liable to pay the tax. The so-called. soft tools to influence this tax to be offered I'm speaking in quotes. As a relief to consumers, they are typical tools for solutions in tax laws recommended by the OECD. These are tools that could be called a kind of social control, social pressure on taxpayers or those who offer goods that are to be exempt from taxation. After all, such tools were adopted in the case of corporate tax laws. So companies are obliged to be fully transparent, to inform about their tax strategy, so that the public can put pressure on proper tax behaviour. Now that the government is lowering taxes, it is a particularly important moment for consumers to be able to react if they attempt to take over part of this reduction by market players. So that you may take this attention, gentlemen of the Senators, as a kind indication and an attempt to get you out of error.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u243	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Bierecki very warmly for these comments about my speech and about this VAT reduction law in general. But I would also ask the senator to refer to... that these VAT rules actually be similar for all recipients of the various types of products listed in the Act to actually rule here. Any justice. And saying that an essential element of the entire bill... And Senator Szejnfeld has made it clear that half of the bill is about how to inform the public about these reductions. This way of informing will be an additional cost. And that is what I want to point out, that people today simply expect reductions, not information, that VAT has been reduced or reduced in the case of one or another product. Because they generally know that. But they want to know that every product that's exactly the same has exactly the same VAT. And that's probably the most important information that should reach citizens. So the point is to treat everyone the same way, to treat them fairly, not to divide society, a nation into better and worse, just because someone lives in a better place, better to say, prepared to receive various kinds of products. And that's the case, I think, here's the most important one. Perhaps it would have been better if this tax had not been reduced by as much as a percentage. Maybe less if you can't afford it. But let it be justly distributed among all those who are to use it. And then there's the second line. It seems to me that this should always be the most important thing for the government, especially the Minister of Finance, to show what expenses we are rationalising in these difficult times where we are reducing spending. As is the increase in the Prime Minister's budget by a few dozen percent a year, like this ridiculous expenditure on buying a nuclear company... after all, this is causing inflation to increase. The rise in inflation does not cause taxes, but other actions, including internal ones, are not just foreign reasons. I think if the government saw these internal government causes of inflation, we'd be in a much better place than we are. I also asked you one more thing. I asked if the government was coordinating the 2 laws that we are adopting today: the VAT Act and this aid law that was earlier and which you were talking about, Marshal Blanket. And what does it turn out to be? That these laws are not coordinated in any way, that it is as if everyone is doing this to themselves: here the Minister of Finance is doing something, and there is something the minister responsible for economic affairs is doing. Well, the state can't function like this. Perhaps such matters should be in one law, or at least coordinated, so as to produce the effect that we expect, and that it should not be so that everyone starts to rip out their own piece of territory. Later, I'll tell Senator Chróścikowski privately about this case of milk he mentioned. Because, of course, farmers aren't gonna lose it, but the absurd thing is that if he was selling this milk... Some dairy that has concentrated milk from a farmer with a flat-rate tax, on an RR invoice, must sell it cheaper if it doesn't want to make a mark-up, add various profits to it. It's not like she bought it. It's in this bill. The farmer doesn't lose on it in the end, but the buyer will say: Mr. farmer, I won't buy milk from you because I'm going to the dairy and I'm going to buy it cheaper. This is the result of these provisions, in such a way that they are constructed. So sometimes it's just worth thinking a little bit more about it, coordinating it and bringing it to an end. As far as milk is concerned, I'm only talking about this case. Because, of course, the minister is about to straighten it out and so on. If the dairy sold them to the final consumer without profit calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u245	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Płucherz, Komarnicki, Gromko, Łuczak, Szwed, Durlak, Senator Gorgon-Komor and Senator Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. There's no conclusion, is there? Yes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I would therefore ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. The text of the Act is contained in print No 609 and the report of the committee In print No 609 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the amended Act on the amendment of the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications. The Act was adopted on 13 January 2022. We considered her yesterday at the committee meeting. After a brief discussion, the Commission adopted a proposal for a law without amendments. As far as the scope of this bill is concerned, you could say a little bit about history. Here I must thank the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk, who has indeed recreated the possibility of financing additional money from the state budget, because these are not EU funds. The possibility of production subsidies was once granted, so-called. 10 plus 2, in general, and this allowed the state budget to finance it. It's a shame it's so late. We remember this great debate when we introduced the 2013-2020 programme. And I from this speaker spoke quite harshly, quite critically, because then, under the rule of the previous coalition of the PO PSL, a decision was made that clearly said that we could not afford these high subsidies, we could not afford to run it. I guess that's when I said that overall annual losses Because this applies not only to this payment, but also to the remaining one, it amounts to 1.5 billion. I've counted it over the years, for how many years as farmers we've lost the possibility of this subsidy. Unfortunately, at the time I was not listened to, it was not realized. Previously, it's gone through and it doesn't work, it's not included in the 2013-2020 solutions. Now I see that the Deputy Prime Minister has found a way to introduce a provision in this solution which gives the possibility to grant transitional national support, i.e. the introduction of a complementary basic payment. This is perhaps not such a large amount that allows farmers to be financed, but it is always some kind of support. The state budget secured 400 million PLN for this. It will help farmers who have up to 30 hectares of farms. They'll be able to apply. It is expected that next year it will be possible to submit applications for farms up to 50 hectares. This is the amount of 400 million, and on average on the farm, as the Minister publicly quoted, it will be about 400 PLN. If you count per hectare, it's average. That's what they said about 40 zł to 1 ha. If someone is to be additionally paid, then, I think, this is some compensation to increase our EU average, which will actually show that there will be a little more opportunities and we will get to the EU average more quickly. This is one of the elements. And I thank the Prime Minister that he notes these possibilities here under European Union law. I would point out that the government might have a very sincere desire and would have supported financially, but there are limitations everywhere under the common agricultural policy. As the previous speakers said here, ministers, there is this competitiveness, but it is not fully competitive with Poland, because we still have low payments, we still do not compete with these payments at least at European average level. Hence, we believe that any opportunity through which we can support agriculture gives us a chance to be more competitive. Thank you very much and I ask on behalf of the committee for the support of the law, because this is a solution that actually partially compensates for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u247	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No questions. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Rafał Romanowski like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal.]] I take it you didn't. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Godyla, Łuczak, Swede and Łyczak have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 612, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 612 A and 612 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment considered the Act on the amendment of the Law on Water Law and certain other laws in print No. 612. Let me give you a closer look at the matter of the bill that has been discussed. As I said, this law concerns water law and some other laws. The amendments contained in the Act include the Water Law of 20 July 2017, the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, as well as the Act of 13 February 2020 amending the Construction Law and certain other laws. As noted by our Legislative Office, this law extends the transitional regulation in order to determine which legal regime is to apply in the case of proceedings concerning decisions on environmental conditions for a nuclear power plant launched before 2018, i.e. before the date of entry into force of the first amended act. It should be noted that the only procedure for issuing decisions on environmental conditions for a nuclear power plant was initiated at the request of an investor, i.e. Polskie Elektrowni Jądrowe Sp. z o.o. This request was submitted in 2015. The competent authority for issuing an environmental decision under the Environmental Information Act was obliged to suspend the proceedings until the investor submitted a report on the environmental impact of the project. Therefore, the procedure for deciding on the environmental conditions for these investments has been suspended since 2016. During the period of suspension of proceedings, the provisions on the basis of which the competent authorities are acting on the issue of environmental considerations have repeatedly and substantially changed, and the transitional provisions accompanying these changes have not always taken into account the specificities of the suspended proceedings on decisions on environmental conditions for a nuclear power plant. As a result of the frequent and profound changes in legislation, public administrations involved in the process of issuing decisions on the environmental conditions of nuclear power plants were obliged to apply the provisions in an obsolete version, inconsistent with other regulations and incompatible with the current will of the legislator. All of this can have a negative impact on the efficiency of the conduct and the sustainability of the administrative acts issued in it, which should be considered inappropriate, especially given the size and importance of the investment. It was therefore considered appropriate to introduce provisions updating the legal status to be taken into account when issuing decisions on the environmental conditions of a nuclear power plant. And it was decided that in these proceedings, account should be taken of the provisions which the determining authorities apply to any other investment, instead of the provisions as they were six years ago. The entry into force of the regulation shall not in any way exclude public consultation and public participation in the issuing of this decision or the possibility to complain to it. I would like to remind you that the bill was introduced by the Group of Members on 8 December 2021. This bill was voted in favour of 249 Members, 182 against and 10 abstentions. It should also be noted that in the course of the debate on this law at the meeting of the committee yesterday, a representative of the government, Mr Piotr Naimski answered numerous questions concerning the content of the law, the validity of its amendments and the progress of the legislative process, as well as the preparation and implementation of investments in the nuclear power plant and the company responsible for this investment. Several senators' questions were also answered by a representative of the Directorate-General for Environment, who explained that the status of the party would not apply only to persons entitled to land within 100 m of the investment. It's very important. Because it will be determined on the basis of the extent of potential environmental impacts. It will certainly be, as it assured, not less than 8 municipalities designated by the investor. The project does not exclude the application of the ESPO Convention, namely consultation with other countries. In the course of the meeting, the people of Slaishev were also given the floor. A locality close to the preferred location of a nuclear power plant. It should be noted that the motion to reject the law did not receive a majority of votes and that the motion to adopt the law without amendments was given a majority. I recommend to the Senate that the bill be passed without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have enjoyed today and have not been as fortunate as yesterday were the joint committees of the environment and the economy, because neither the rapporteur nor the Minister nor any other representative of the government appeared at the committee meeting. But I understand that it is not customary for officials to disregard Parliament. The Minister is an official and has an obligation to attend a committee meeting. It's not his favor. And referring only to the report, to the extent that we could move, because there was neither the author of the bill, nor any representative of the government... First of all, I would like to point out that the law and this discussion we had today at the committee meeting is a misnomer, because it is a law amending the law of the water law and some other laws, but it really concerns 1 project, which is being implemented, or actually 1 decision. It is a decision to prepare an environmental impact report for a potential future nuclear power plant or a nuclear power plant block in Poland. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister said that the government cares about time. I would just like to remind you that this government rules in Poland for 7 years. If the board, which first acted within the framework of PGE EJ1 now is called Polish Nuclear Power Plant For 7 years, he was able to fulfil the obligations arising from the decision of the General Environmental Director on the investor, i.e. in the part concerning the preparation of the report... 7 years was not enough to prepare the documentation only in the part concerning the report, so the only conclusion is that a draft law was prepared to de facto delete this provision, this decision issued by the General Director, imposing an obligation and specifying the extent to be prepared for the activities related to the impact report. Of course, I agree with the fact that the PiS government has repeatedly amended regulations along the way, including in this section on the Environmental Information Act, public participation and environmental impact assessments. This change, which the government depends on, is that we depart from the fact that in the case of an investment that has a significant negative impact on the environment, anyone who has a legal interest, and this is already defined not only in Poland but in Europe, can proceed to the process, be a party and have a retained right to court. These regulations, which have been introduced into the evaluation law, de facto receive a significant part of Poles, but not only, although I refer here only to Poles, the right to court. Not today, so I'm gonna appeal to yesterday's session again. Today, at the committee meeting, I myself quoted the words of the Minister and the Director, during which we heard that everyone would be able to make comments, but in fact the right to court, i.e. to challenge decisions, will have not owners of property located 100 m from the investment located, but residents of 8 municipalities. Honestly, I don't know the key. There is no logical, formal, legal explanation for the fact that it is justified to indicate 8, 9, 12 municipalities or 2 municipalities, because such investments, each of us knows that, in the event of a potential accident, have a range of impacts calculated in thousands of kilometres. Thus, here there is simply no possibility to limit the right to court only to a few residents, to several municipalities, only everyone in the case of this type of investment has the right to make comments. Of course, I am aware that the authority issuing the environmental decision will be filled with various kinds of comments, each of these comments will have to examine, respond to, refer to or accept it or reject it. It's a gigantic job. But the project is gigantic, and if these 7 years hadn't been wasted, this work would have been done long ago, these documents would have been completely complex by now. However, in today's committee meeting, we have also come to the conclusion that such rejection, the adoption of this draft law and the entry into force of the rules in force today will, in our view, result in a clear violation of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. I'm just gonna read the two articles. Art. 1 paragraph 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) for the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: "the public concerned shall mean a society which is or may be affected or has an interest in the environmental decision-making procedures referred to in Article. 2 (2) 2. For the purposes of this definition, environmental NGOs meeting the requirements of national law shall be considered to have an interest in this respect. Once again, I will quote this short sentence: "The community concerned means a society that is or may be affected by the consequences." That's one thing. I would like you to notice that here in the High House. Secondly, let me read the article. 11 of that Directive: Member States shall ensure that, in accordance with the relevant national legal system, members of the public concerned, having a sufficient interest or possibly raising an infringement, where the administrative legal procedures of a Member State so require, have access to an appeal procedure before a court or other independent and impartial body established by the law in order to challenge the material or procedural legality of decisions, actions or omissions, subject to the provisions of this Directive relating to public participation. And in fact, it is clear from these rules that if we accept what the government expects in fact... Because the bill is parliamentary, but yesterday the Minister admitted that the government wanted to shorten the procedure, contrary to the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure. Once again, this government should be used to such things. It is therefore a parliamentary initiative, otherwise they would have to carry out a public consultation on the draft law. So I would like to make it clear that the government will de facto block the possibility of building a nuclear power plant in Poland, the first nuclear power plant block in Poland, because this dispute will not be concluded by a final decision, but whoever will be able to prosecute, for example. to the TSEU, infringement of European law. What I have read clearly shows that European law will be violated here. In this situation, as people responsible for processes that concern all potentially important investments in Poland, we have no choice but to help the government Even if the government does not have that knowledge and is unable to use it properly and submit a motion to reject this draft law in its entirety. I do not hide that I have tried very hard to correct this law, to prepare amendments to this law, but in order to prepare amendments, I would first have to start with the title, or actually title this law: on limiting the access of Poles to environmental information for the built nuclear power plant. That would be the right title here. Then it is appropriate to ask for the deletion of the article. 1, Article Article 2 and Article 2 3. There'd only be one article left, Art. 4 but it reads: "The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. So in this situation there is nothing to do, but to name things and say: this law should not be broadcast further, in the interest of the proposed investment, namely the construction of the first nuclear block in Poland, because it will definitely block the implementation of this project for many years. Maybe that's the point, but then you'd have to say that the government Just like he pretended to make an investment for seven years. He has no intention of pursuing it further. The committee therefore requests that this proposal be rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u251	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see any such questions being raised. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would the Member like to speak? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There's no envoy. Traditionally, Members do not attend Senate meetings. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I'm asking you, Minister Piotr Naimski. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I very briefly, if you allow the Marshal...]] If you don't mind, Minister, you're welcome here. Maybe there'll be questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say it briefly. This bill is an accident act. It simply allows one company to build a nuclear power plant in Poland to continue the process of preparing for this investment according to the law and regulation existing today, not in 2015, when the company formally submitted an application for an environmental permit to the General Directorate for Environment. In May 2016, the Council adopted The General Directorate for Environmental Protection has drawn up and issued the scope of environmental studies to the company, which has automatically suspended the proceeding on the application until the submission of this report. This report is prepared. It took quite a long time, because it is very carefully prepared and it is a special investment. Therefore, since the report is already prepared, we want the proposal to be further examined by the Directorate-General for Environment, according to the existing regulations, which are in line with the current European law, as confirmed by a special letter to the Polish Government, it is called the comfort letter, which was sent by the European Commission to Poland after the revision of the evaluation law, which we carried out at the request of the European Commission last year. This has allowed us at the moment to prepare ourselves for this procedure, which is a very important procedure, to take place without any legal doubt within the European Union, which I dedicate to the senator who had just spoken. I think this issue is quite clear. This law does not affect the substance, it does not change substantively anything concerning the rights of the parties, but also those who will be considered by the General Directorate for Environmental Protection to be affected by the effects of this investment during the examination of the application. This is a procedure that will be conducted by the General Directorate. The consultations we're talking about here... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry, Mr. Marshal, this is the electronics... The consultation on the scope, which is included in today's submission, was carried out in connection with a law that will still go to the Sejm, soon and, of course, to the High House, a law which is a major amendment of atomic law, a special law. This was removed from this large presentation precisely because we care about time, because this proposal should already be processed in the general management, and the report is prepared by the Polish Nuclear Power Plant. And that's all I'd like to say. I ask the High House to be kind to this project, because really what it is possible to remove should be removed as efficiently as possible so that Poland can have this nuclear power plant at a predictable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u253	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u254	Minister, you have said that you have a letter from the European Commission that accepts the provisions that say that you significantly limit the possibility for the public to participate in access to court. I very much regret that you did not give this letter yesterday or today, because I would like to see it. Because I hear for the time being that there is an agreement, and I do not know such a practice, for 8 years as a minister I have never met with the European Commission at the stage of the project, especially in such cases, to write back that it accepts something. So if, Minister, you have this letter, please give it to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u255	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u256	Mr. Senator, if you have any interest in this matter, you're welcome to come forward with an interpellation. We'll answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u257	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u258	Mr. Marshal, I have a problem. We're about to vote on the bill. You heard the Minister's answer. I asked a very specific question. When discussing the bill earlier as Senator rapporteur, I referred to the directive. The Minister is absolutely insolent in saying that if I have an interest, I have to address it in writing. Minister, you have come and presented the bill, and you have an interest, and you have a duty to present us with documents, if you have any. If you don't want to, don't introduce them, but don't lie. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u259	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: You are protected by the Senator's immunity. That's it. Thank you very much.]] Minister, there are other questions for you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have here in the Senate such a special committee, an extraordinary committee, which, in cases, I would call it, critical votes differently than industry committees. That's the hypothesis I made a few hours ago, and it's working out. It's not a hypothesis anymore, it's practically a theory. Minister, how late can it be to proceed if the proposal of this special climate emergency committee entered into force, i.e. a law in this form would be rejected?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u261	It's hard to say, Mr. Senator, if it is. But I'm sure it's a fact that it's not consistent with what all the other actors are saying to the main environmental directorate for all the other investments... it's just not right to do it in a particular way. This is a legal mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u262	Mr. Senator Gawłowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u263	I have no boldness because I will be instructed again, but I will say, Minister: not the Chief, but the General Directorate for Environmental Protection. The Minister should know that. As far as the civil code is concerned, you can sue me, there are no obstacles, I'm not protected by immunity. So I encourage you to take this step. That's two. And three. You had seven years to file papers and apply for a report. If anyone asks today if it's gonna be delayed, I want to say seven years. You've been in charge for seven years, and there's no report for seven years, so that's the answer: seven years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u264	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: It wasn't a question.]] You answered the question. Mr. Senator. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: But...]] No, Mr. Senator, you're... Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u265	I don't have so much as a conclusion here. [[I'd ask you to ask questions.]] Okay, okay, but I have a minute. Yes? [[You've got a minute. Ask me.]] Okay, then I'll use it. On 9 November 2008 in Gdańsk Prime Minister Donald Tusk announced the construction of at least 2 nuclear power plants in north-eastern Poland. Location: Żarnowiec, Pomerania, Podlasie. By 2015 it was 7 years, you did not undertake this construction because you are afraid of such investments. We've already built a tunnel, a tunnel under the pig, and all you guys are doing is testing. You can't rule, you just can't. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u266	Thank you. That wasn't a question, Senator. Who else? Senator Lover. Ask me a question. One minute. [[... the European Union...]] Don't argue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Regardless of the controversy that goes on in the courtroom, I'd like to know, and I think I have the right to... I would like to ask the Minister at least the number and date of the letter from the European Commission to our government confirming what the Minister said today. Would the Minister like to send a letter to the Senate Marshal so we can be clear about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u268	Of course, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u269	Good. Minister, I have a favor to ask of you. If you have this handwriting The committee will be meeting in a minute. Please send this letter because it can't be such a situation that you say you have a letter, and from what I hear, you don't want to pass it on.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u270	Mr. Marshal, of course. This is a comfort letter that concerns an amendment to the bill that we introduced last year. Of course he's...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u271	Good. Thank you. There's gonna be a committee meeting tonight, so you're gonna have a chance. There's no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion... Oh, and I'm yet to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Magdalena Kochan. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. [[Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am briefly. I'm taking the floor because most people...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] What's going on? [[Please?]] Mr. Senator... [[He kidnapped my card.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] Mr. Senator... [[What's going on?]] I'm sorry. What's going on out there? One minute break... Mr. Senator, come to me... [[He kidnapped my card. And in a public way, yet so ostentatiously. And this is the Minister of the Polish Government.]] [[And you're the senator.]] [[So what?]] Don't come in... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] There you go, Senator. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u272	Thank you very much. I'm taking the floor, but not long. I want to turn to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been seven years since you finally made a decision, and it is not yet of your own free will, but of the hands of Members. This is the bill from the Parliamentary submission, and here there is neither the representative of the applicants, there is only a minister who defends this law by his own breast, actually leading almost to riots at the sitting of our House. I am the applicant, I made a motion to reject the bill at the meeting of the Climate Committee and this village was accepted. I have the following charges against the bill itself. This is not a law on amending the Water Law and on the occasion of some other laws. First of all, it is a law on changing the environmental impact of investments, which can have a significant impact, and defending society from having the opportunity to speak on issues that concern such investments. There's a lot of it out there. This is not about the nuclear power plant itself, because there are many supporters of building such a power plant, but we need to approach it in a completely different way. This is inappropriate because this bill is twisted. The Act amending the Act of Water Law doesn't... This should be a law amending the Environmental Impact Act, the Water Law, the Construction Law, etc. in connection with the construction of a nuclear power plant. And then it would be clear to all of us and to society. Besides, there's no one here to talk to. In the sense that he would actually make his point. This is all politics right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u273	Thank you, Senator. I'll let you know that the list... And yet, yes? Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome. [[But I can wait.]] You signed up? [[I'll step down, I'll step down.]] Oh, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski signed up for you before Senator Pupa. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. One at a time, take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I just want to answer what was going on at the time that nothing was supposed to happen, that is, during the Platform's reign. The programme of Polish nuclear energy was created, a very comprehensive document requiring consultation not only within the country but also internationally. Several dozens of thousands of comments, which came not only from Poland but also from Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries, allowed us to prepare this document. This document was adopted by the then government and only recently, to a small extent, updated by the current government. This is a document on the basis of which the construction of the first nuclear power plant in Poland can actually be carried out. That's what the Platform government did. That's one thing. Secondly, a company was established, which was then called PGE EJ 1 and which carried out a whole range of research, drilling, etc. She also prepared the documents needed to speak to the General Directorate. It's about a document called the KIP, an information card of an enterprise. On this basis, the DG Environment could determine the scope of the expected environmental impact report. It happened at a time when the Platform was in charge. The decision to start the whole process of preparation for the construction of a nuclear power plant in Poland was probably taken in 2010 or 2011, I do not remember exactly. Then the whole mechanism was launched, which required the preparation of the national strategy paper first, then the start-up of the company, etc. And one last thing. The PiS state was so critical of Alexander Grad for being... In your performance this is the standard, but in ours it was indeed an exception. He was the CEO of PGE EJ and charged high wages. I would like to say that the PiS government last year paid PLN 520 million for the company that Alexander Grad has prepared. I'm not asking the Minister because he's upset, you don't know what he's upset about, and instead of answering, he prefers to be angry. It was 520 million, yes circa about. So Grad should be in the Business Gazelles because he actually prepared a great start-up that the government bought back... Anyway, from the Treasury companies, so it was a completely incomprehensible operation, a businessly completely incomprehensible operation. But the government bought this company back and paid PLN 520 million for it. It was in the days of the Platform. And then? For seven years, the beach, nothing, zero, null. [[Well, that's good.]] Well, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u275	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are things in the life of a nation that we should face above divisions. These are strategic issues, these are decisions that will be made for generations. Such a decision was the excavation of the Vistula mine, such a decision was the construction of the Central Communication Port and such a decision is the construction of a nuclear power plant. France has 48 nuclear power plants. If they were taking this case the way we're doing right now, they probably wouldn't have any power plants. We cannot communicate on the most important matters for our country. Senator Wojciech Piecha, who pointed out what the preparations for the construction of the nuclear power plant were like during the seven years. What Senator Gawłowski is saying about these, you can say, consultations that have been conducted, about these activities... I am convinced that with a very efficient operation, even with an average performance, we should do so within a period of time. maximum 2 years, 3 years. It lasted seven years, and we're still in our infancy. Those decisions should have been prepared long ago so that such a power plant could be built. Today we need one so we can go on... It's not us, not the PiS, not anybody, but the nation is falling apart, you can say, sand in modes. That's not necessary. It will be us that the citizens will settle us in the near future, in the future, in the perspective of a few term of office, of either doing something or not doing something, or arguing. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a decision to be made to build a nuclear power plant. There is no doubt that such a nuclear power plant is needed. We are standing, as we all see, in the face of an energy crash. We know about problems that will somehow arise not only in our country but also throughout Europe. It is therefore extremely important that decisions are made efficiently, quickly and substantively. I think that we now have the opportunity to make such a decision, one might say, small, but efficient, which will serve future generations, to vote today. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like to provide data on attempts to build a nuclear power plant in Poland. This story dates back to the 1980s, when the first attempt was made and the first nuclear power plant was located in Żarnowiec. Unfortunately, after 1986, after a unfortunate accident in Chernobyl, this investment was discontinued. That's too bad. It's too bad we have a nuclear power plant, we'd have something to run from. Because this isn't just about construction. Now we also need to provide staff, and we need to educate them. It's not that simple. Then there were attempts to build a power plant. Even in 2011, an invitation to tender was to be opened for the delivery of reactors, but the deadline for that invitation to tender was postponed. It was in the days of your government. You say you've done a lot, and we don't have a location. Yes? We don't have a location. [[That's what he's doing.]] Because of this? Where? [[Right where they design.]] Okay, but it's not over yet. Yes? It's not over yet. [[It's always not enough.]] We need to continue to process this. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. I'm not a specialist, I'm not an expert on this. I will tell you more about Polish electricity. In 2020 Polish electricity produced 157.7 TWh of electricity. The share of coal in this production is 69, 7%. In 2015, it was 83.84%. We're down 15%. Is this a very big success? The share of RES in energy production is now 17.7%. The importance of gas has increased. We'll also build gas-based energy, the first gas blocks in Opole. As far as I was concerned, the next ones will also be built, e.g. at the power plant.Rybnik. Why are we doing this? Because we have outdated carbon energy. I think we have 46 more 200 blocks, which will have to be turned off gradually, in 2025, 2026, by 2030. They won't be allowed to continue their work. These blocks are gradually turned off. We need to draw energy from other sources, not just from the wind, because this is an unstable source. It's not just solar, because it's also an unstable source. Solars only work from nine to fifteen. We need a stable source in the base. We've got a couple of new blocks, 1,000 megawatts in coal power plants. I'm talking about Bełchatów, Kozienice, Opole. These blocks will still work a lot of time, but a little bit will lack energy in the base, so we're trying to build in 2033... put the first nuclear blocks into use. That's all there is to it. The demand for electricity will rise. We are getting rich as a country, as a society and energy we will gradually miss. We can't just rely on energy imports. When it doesn't blow, the Germans also have to draw energy from their neighbours, because their energy system can't handle it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u279	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz, Władysław Komarnicki, Jolanta Hibner, Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Józef Łyczak made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 611, and the report of the committee In print No 611 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the revision of the Law on Strategic Reserves and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 13 January 2022. In the course of the discussion, a motion for rejection was made. Six senators voted against, five against, and no one abstained, which is the majority. What does the Act itself concern? The aim of the amendments is to extend the catalogue of strategic reserves created and maintained within the framework of the strategic reserve system. Under the proposed law, the system of strategic reserves will be expanded to include previously excluded explosives, weapons, ammunition and other essential parts, projecting charges and military or police-purpose products and technologies. The aim of the changes is to protect the Republic of Poland more effectively, as well as its citizens in the event of threats. The current Strategic Reserves Act does not contain a sufficient level of regulation enabling rapid and efficient response in the field of police or military strategic reserves to dynamic crisis developments, such as breaches of the Polish border organized. In such a case, it may be necessary to issue to the relevant services the strategic reserves collected for this purpose in quantities adapted to the crisis situation. In view of the extension of the catalogue of the range of strategic reserves, it is necessary to amend Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) c of this law, adding lit. ♪ and the amendment of Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the amended Strategic Reserves Act. These changes are intended to extend the directory of indications that entrepreneurs need to fulfil in order to store new types of strategic reserves. The proposed regulations also introduce mechanisms to ensure proper storage and control of new categories of strategic reserves due to their specific nature. The proposed amendments to the abovementioned laws aim to exclude the provisions on restrictions and obligations under the laws themselves in relation to the activities undertaken by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency in carrying out statutory tasks. Such a solution will allow for the efficient creation and maintenance of new types of strategic reserves, and for them to be made more efficiently available and carried out by the Agency in the event of a threat to State security. So much for the bill, actually.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to the President of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, Mr Michał Kuczmierowski, and to the Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ms Izabela Antos. And I would like to ask if the government wants to take the floor and present the government's position. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u282	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws provides for the extension of the catalogue of strategic reserves to a new range: military or police goods and technologies covered by the concession. The aim of these changes is to protect Poland and its citizens more effectively in the event of threats. In particular, it is a hybrid threat that can adversely affect the public safety and life and health of Poles. The current Strategic Reserves Act does not provide sufficient opportunity for the rapid and efficient establishment of police or military strategic reserves to be collected for the purpose of complementing military resources and security services. This also applies to widely understood specialist equipment, which is used especially by services such as the Police and the Border Guard. It is a range of types such as vests, helmets, goggles, protective shields, special communications systems, pyrotechnic suits, binoculars, night visions or thermal cameras. The proposed changes are particularly important in the context of the dynamic development of crisis situations, such as breaches of Polish borders of an organised nature. In such cases, it may be necessary to issue to the relevant strategic reserve services which will be gathered to support the activities of those services. As regards the most important solutions of the proposed law, the catalogue of strategic reserves will be extended to include an additional, already mentioned assortment. It will enable efficient creation and maintenance of new types of strategic reserves, as well as faster access to them. The Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will also be able to conclude agreements with certain entrepreneurs to maintain the production capacity of a specific assortment or to remain ready to provide services. It is worth noting once again that the new rules allow the Government's Agency for Strategic Reserves to carry out the tasks entrusted to them in the event of a threat to state security or in a crisis situation, to support the performance of tasks relating to public security and order, to protect the life and health of citizens, and to pursue Poland's interests in the field of national security. Therefore, I would very much like to ask the honourable House to adopt a law amending the law on strategic reserves and certain other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal, I have one brief question. Is the existing Military Property Agency a center of reserves of this kind? Because we're talking about ammunition, weapons, not just helmets or night vision sights. We're talking about guns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u285	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u286	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, we are talking about night vision sights and licensed equipment. Of course, there are also weapons and explosives, because this is all regulated by one law. However, above all, the aim of the proposed changes is to support military services, police or border guards, equipment with licensed equipment such as pyrotechnic vests, binoculars or night vision devices. As far as the tasks of the Military Property Agency are concerned, they are not to change in any way, and this change in no way affects this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u287	Thank you very much. Senator Szejnfeld, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u288	I'd like to ask you on this occasion about the purchase by the Ministry of Health We all remember him. Respirators from an arms dealer. A criminal case, of course, in this respect, that neither the ventilators were fully present, nor did the money go to the State Treasury. But there was some information that the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency would buy back those ventilators that hit the bailout auction. They were supposed to be sold there for 30 grand apiece. Has this transaction come or has it not come to fruition?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u289	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u290	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no such transaction as I understand, and it was not in the plans at all. We did not issue any such decisions as the law firm of the Prime Minister... The Prime Minister did not make decisions regarding the purchase of ventilators previously purchased by the Ministry of Health or those from chamber auctions. Thank you. [[I asked because there was a statement from the president of the agency...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. [[...that he's considering buying these ventilators.]] Mr. Senator, is there another question? [[I mean, I'm saying...]] But do you have a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u292	Yes. I'm asking because there was information that the president of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency was considering buying respirators that no one wanted to buy because no one showed up at the bailout auction. And there were only 30,000, which probably shows what kind of technical condition they were in. So I just want to know if they were purchased by the agency or not. The Minister doesn't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u293	I already said they weren't. [[They didn't.]] I said there was no such decision and no such transaction took place.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u294	Thank you very much. There's no more... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do I understand correctly that this additional assortment, which is subject to the regime of this law, is among others. the one that can be used by various types of service, including the military, but for the same purpose, e.g. in the event of a threat resulting from Belarusian aggression to our border? Is it done just so that different services don't create different, let's just call it a resource of reserve storage, just so it's in one place?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u296	Yeah, absolutely, exactly. That's how this change is constructed. It aims to facilitate the speed of response and the ability of various services, e.g. by the military, the police, the Border Guard, the assortment that is available, e.g. that in military service by police service or vice versa. And this is what we have now in the event of a threat that occurs at the eastern border.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u297	Thank you very much... [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u298	Yes, Mrs. Marshal... The question therefore It's like a consequence of an earlier question. Did it happen at the committee meeting... I should have asked the senator properly, but I think the minister has a broader view of the situation. Were there any logical reasons not to create such an additional assortment, reserve, precisely in the Belarusian aspect? Because I understand that this is supposed to improve the operation of the services, i.e. gathering it in one place, perhaps even geographically, in this case. And what happened to the motion... Maybe we can hear it from those who are the authors of the motion to reject this bill. What was presented in the committee as an argument for not adopting this law? I don't see such an argument, but maybe there's a logical reason. We'll check.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u299	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u300	Thank you very much. I would not like to refer to the logic of the statements that were made at the committee meeting. All I can say is that, as I understand it, the arguments of the government and the justification for the project did not meet with the acceptance of the majority of the committee members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u301	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Isabella Antos: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! We're dealing with an extremely strange situation. It is a law whose content, and what is important, the justification of which does not explain the purpose or intentions of the designers. Worse still, neither this purpose nor this intention were heard at the committee meeting which considered the same project. Well, sometimes it happens that the justification is not too clear, transparent, clear, but you can ask, you can find out. And I want to say that, unfortunately, we haven't learned anything about this. They rained, for example. such questions, whether something dramaticly unacceptable has happened in Poland, something that has not been in all these units for the last several decades And police and military, and those in all ministries, from the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, to government agencies such as the Military Property Agency. Did something happen there or something bad happens that suddenly, after all these years As I understand it, good work, no matter what the government was like, and in the last six years of the rule of law and justice... If everything's okay and everything's going well, there's no corruption, there's no crisis, there's no left-hand shopping, there's no failure in keeping reserves, etc., etc... There are no problems at the Military Property Agency, there are no problems with purchases carried out by the Ministry of National Defence or the Ministry of Home Affairs or subordinate units. Then why change it? If it's okay, then why do you suddenly want to change and create a whole new, new facility to deal with what they've been doing so far? For the past 6 years, as well as for the past decades, existing institutions, ministries, government agencies and subordinates? There is no justification, there is no explanation either in the bill or there was no discussion at the committee meeting. And we didn't hear that explanation today either. So far, most people in Poland have probably been associated with ensuring the security of the state and society in matters such as, I don't know, shopping, oil warehouses, but above all, e.g. medicines and all medical supplies in case of some crisis, of course groceries, purchases, etc. So that you, through strategic reserves, can react and stabilise the situation in the country. Nobody. I'm not either. The Strategic Reserve Agency has never been associated with war. You could say that, because we're dealing with aggressive measures, which are weapons, explosives, ammo, throwing charges, military, police, and so on. It's amazing. And that's even though I said there were two resorts that were responsible for it. The national defence and internal affairs are the police, the military and the Military Property Agency. There is only one characteristic feature of this system, which is currently in force. Namely, none of these institutions, none of these entities are directly subject to the President of the Council of Ministers. Well, I don't think it's about the President of the Council of Ministers right now. Because the Strategic Reserve Agency is under the authority of the Council of Ministers and has dealt with explosives, weapons, ammunition, etc. First of all, I don't think that's what he's called for. However, more so is the Minister of National Defence or the Minister of Home Affairs. Secondly, if there were such questions here too No crisis, no crash, no corruption, no bad things have happened in these resorts and in those agencies that are currently functioning, it may be some other threat. And that's why we're gonna need to buy weapons, ammunition, guns, explosives, and God knows what. But no longer the Minister of National Defence or the Minister of Home Affairs has the authority to do so. Or it's supposed to be, but next door... And now we're gonna have two power centers in the Council of Ministers entitled to decide on weapons and ammunition? What's going on here? We hear about some bulldog war under the rug every day, when it comes to the ruling party, we hear that divisions are so deep that we don't really know who's in charge in this country, but I don't think it's so absurd that rifles and grenades must have everyone, including the President of the Council of Ministers. That's why we're changing to give him, of course, through the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, the opportunity to buy grenades and dynamite? Yeah, something's not right. Therefore, it will be difficult to support this law as long as there is such uncertainty, such ignorance, such uncertainty, as long as such suspicions occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u303	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Władysław Komarnicki, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Majer and Joanna Sekuła submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 614, and the report of the committee In print No 614 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Ewa Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on the work of the committee on amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws adopted by the Polish Parliament at its forty-sixth meeting on 13 January 2022. At the beginning of the committee's work on this law, Deputy Minister Stanisław Szwed discussed what it was about and what its purpose was. The aim of the amendment is to adapt the regulations of the Social Employment Act of 13 June 2003 to the changing socio-economic conditions, taking into account the situation on the labour market. In particular, the solutions adopted are intended to encourage socially excluded people to take active action by participating in activities organised by the Centre for Social Inclusion in order to acquire competences and qualifications to enable them to take up employment in the open labour market. During the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau submitted a general comment on the procedure for legislative procedure at the parliamentary stage and questioned whether this had been carried out in accordance with the constitutional procedure for procedure 3 of the readings. According to the Legislative Bureau, these changes should be the subject of a separate initiative. The point was that the parliamentary committee had extended the original scope of the bill. These are changes concerning the modification in the Supplementary Provision Act for persons unable to exist independently, in the covidowa specialty, and in the Act on Polish Tourist Bona, precisely in relation to these provisions. The Legislative Office also drew attention to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 amendments which are related to the Supplementary Provision Act for persons unable to live independently. This provision requires the President of the Social Security Office to announce in 2022 the amount of entitlement to a supplementary benefit for persons unable to live on their own, as soon as this Act is published. This will be possible after 14 days, i.e. after the expiry of the standard vacatio legis, which results from the provision concerning the entry into force of the Act. Senator Ryszard Majer continued the discussion, who stressed that the Act amending the Social Employment Act is a very important bridge between the economic system and the social policy system, which makes it easier for people who, for various reasons, cannot enter the labour market. He stressed that this amendment deserves our full support, even in spite of the comments made by your legislator on the subject of legal proceedings. It seems to fit in with the overall shape of this law. Senator Majer recommended that the bill be passed without amendment. Senator Magdalena Kochan, who agreed with the legitimacy of this law, then asked the Minister what the reason for including the voivodeship in the substantive supervision of the CIS and CRIS activities was, as a result. The Minister explained that this change would facilitate the functioning of the CIS and CRIS. The senator didn't reserve a method of proceding... High Izbo, the committee requests that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u305	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Madam President presented a comprehensive report. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, the senators Halina Bieda, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Majer, Benjamin Godyla and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the first part of the Senate meeting. Please listen to the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Water Law and some other laws will take place today, 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176/179. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted at the thirty-sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services will also take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in session in room 176/179. Third ad. Meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting to the Act on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in the context of the situation on the gas market Senator's printing No 617 will also take place today, immediately after the joint meeting with the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in Room No 176/179 has been concluded. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Passenger Name Processing Act will take place today, 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in session in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting to the Passport Documents Act will also take place today, 25 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in the session in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u307	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 04 to 20 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u308	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 616 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u309	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commissions at its meeting on 20 January 2022 considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 20 January 2022 on the Law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act and presented the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate shall accept the proposal set out in point II (1). In addition, committees shall inform that on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 The Senate Rules of Procedure Senator Marek Komorowski changed the content of his proposal and it is point II.1 in the table of proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that in the course of the discussion the conclusions were presented by the Pleno Titulo Senators Komorowski, Bieda, Matecka, Sekuła, Kwiatkowski and Frankiewicz. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, and they were all against it. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. If you authorize me, ladies and gentlemen, so that I do not read the entire contents of the amendments, I will only read the numbers. Attention, Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 2. Who's in favour of Amendment One? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] We are therefore voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Frankiewicz is voting? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data. We return to the second agenda: the Passport Documents Act. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 615 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u311	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Today, the Commission has examined the proposals made during the debate on the Passport Documents Act and presented the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in points 1 and 15. In addition, amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 12, 14, 15 can be voted jointly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u312	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made by the Senators Necessary, Moravian-Stanecka, Magdalena Kochan during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If I get the approval of the High Senate, we will vote on these amendments in the block, as the rapporteur has said. So we are voting on Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 12, 14, 15. I understand there's acceptance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Please note that amendments 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13 should be voted in combination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Passport Documents Act. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act on Special Solutions for the Protection of the Consumers of Gas Fuels in view of the situation on the gas market. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 617 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A total of 34 amendments were tabled and 3 were excluded. The Commission proposes to vote in favour of Amendments 1, 3 on Amendments 11 and 34, vote jointly. That is how we voted at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u314	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the Senators Szejnfeld and Gawłowski presented their conclusions, and the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was Senator Maria Koc. I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Attention, amendments 3, 7 and 9 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Attention, Amendment 4 will exclude the vote on Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, Senator Budner, if she wanted to see if she'd sent a signal... Please state the results of the vote. We've got eyes now... 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 11... Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: But here it is a block, from eleven o'clock...]] Excuse me? Amendment 11 or 15? [[Voice from the room: Amendment 11.]] If there is no objection to the High House, we will be able to vote in block over Amendment 11.34. We are therefore voting block on Amendment 11.34. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 98, they were all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in view of the situation on the gas market. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 610 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Energy Law. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 618 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that, at its meeting today, the Joint Committees have examined the proposals made during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in paragraph II (1) (7).
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piech, like to speak again? Thank you very much. Senator Piecha was also rapporteur for the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 47 for, 50 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 15]] As a result of the vote, I find that the request has been rejected. We therefore proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Let me remind you that this amendment aims to temporarily reduce the VAT rate on coal and coke to 8%. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Well, I'm proud to call on Marshal Karczewski to see if he sent a signal. He sent it, thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Sekuła voting? Is Senator Sekuła voting? [[Voice from the room:... on the phone.]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 609 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 612 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees request that the law be rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-20-senat-36-1.u318	Thank you very much. Would the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, like to speak again? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Senator Pupa was also rapporteur for the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on the proposal of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the bill; Senate printing No 611 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee concerning the rejection of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 51 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 614 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws. We've exhausted the agenda today. I'm declaring a recess until 4th of February until 10 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 32]]
