ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Cultures and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 16, - Extraordinary on changes in codification - hour. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 12.30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - the Podlaskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 12, - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u2	Thank you. We have formal requests. Please, as the first Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The protesting farmers in Wielkopolska, West Pomerania, in Opole, ask the PiS government, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, when you will finally lean on the problem which poses the question of the existence of most Polish farms. It's bullshit to say that any shield is helping farmers today. Instead of helping farmers, you spy on Pegasus one of the leaders of the agricultural trade unions. It is on the table, gentlemen, a joint proposal of the Polish People's Party and Agrounia to reduce the margin on fertilisers. Therefore, the question is, the request for a request, the formal request for a break and the answer of Prime Minister Sasin, Prime Minister Kowalczyk, to the question why companies of the State Treasury (the bell) producing fertilisers do not reduce the margin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u4	Thank you, sir. It's against the law. Mr Kowalski with the opposite proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a polite request to present information to the Polish People's Party, what is the situation in the Azores. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're lying. The nitrogen fertilizer segment is not profitable. [[What's this? Formal conclusion: are you lying?]] Third quarter, just see the website of Azotów Puławy, minus PLN 22.36 million. [[Voice from the room: This is not your last word.]] There's no margin, that's how the government helps farmers. You're the ones behind the expensive Russian gas, although we can get cheaper gas from LNG. And it is thanks to Deputy Prime Minister Sasin that Agrochem is a company. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] A company that directly sells fertilisers to Polish farmers. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Good is good.]] So tell me the truth, not defend Russian gas. You are the voice of Waldemar Pawlak today behind the expensive Russian gas, attacking LNG, attacking Baltic Pipe. So first learn before you perform here. [[Applause]] [[Some of the Members show the postcards with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] [[Stand-up!]] [[The voice from the hall: The best people threw into the fight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as a request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Next formal conclusion. Marshal Terlecki resigns. Mr Marek Rutka, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, pursuant to Article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I make a formal request for the adjournment of the sitting until the agenda has been completed for the information of the Prime Minister on real support, including in-kind support received by the Ukrainian party in the face of the threat of an attack by the Russian Federation. [[Applause]] I have spent the last 3 days in Kiev as president of the Parliamentary Group for. The memorials of the Holocaust Crimes at Babi Jara. I attended a European congress devoted to the crimes of genocide committed out of hatred for another nation. On Monday I held an official meeting with Members of the Werchovna Council of Ukraine. On the authority of the Left Club, I gave my full support to the Members for territorial integrity (the bell) and solidarity with the Ukrainian people... Thank you, sir. ...in the face of a real threat of attack by the Russian Federation. Thank you very much, sir. This isn't a performance... During the conversation with the Ukrainian MPs... Thank you very much, sir. There's been a motion... ...I didn't get any information about any real support... You really can't hear me from here, sir? ...both material and diplomatic... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u8	Sir, can't you hear me from here? Can't you hear me, sir? Thank you, sir. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Mr President, the second condition, the inclusion in order, depends on me and not on this vote, so we are voting on a request for deferral. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of adjournment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the offer. With a formal proposal from Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The vote on real help for Polish entrepreneurs will be held in this House in a moment. Today, no shields promised by this government work. Thousands of Polish small and medium-sized companies are threatened with liquidation because you have funded the highest increase in gas prices in history. [[Some of the Members show the postcards with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] And what have you done so far? Nothing. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has fixed the legal bubble you have filed in this House, and today it is up to you whether small Polish family companies, run for many generations, will survive the PiS government or the PiS government will be the undertaker of the Polish economy. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] These are thousands of jobs. They've been working for generations. Today, your government is responsible for this cost. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] You haven't done anything so far, because all that matters to you is stools and raises for your own people, just like this. You did it in KPRM. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u10	Thank you very much, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Prime Minister Sasin would like to speak. [[Some Members chant: "Drożyzna! I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back.]] Ladies and gentlemen, either yell or... You want an event like this? Here you go, I'll give you time. But if you'd like to hear... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please don't yell at me from the bench. If you would like to hear the answer - please, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. [[Voice from the room: Gas Sasin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Enough of these lies, Mr. Budka, enough of these lies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Room voice: 800%!]] [[Enough! Enough! Enough!]] Today, expensive gas is your policy. [[Applause]] Your policy here in Poland, when you were in charge, and your policy in the European Union, where you gave Putin the opportunity to blackmail all of Europe's gas prices. [[Applause]] [[It's a yeast.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This is your legacy. [[Dude, you haven't done anything yet.]] We're helping Poles today. [[You're helping each other.]] We have established a law that gives households the right to cheaper gas below market prices, first of all. [[You haven't done anything yet, nothing! Ostrołęka...]] Secondly, today we also give cheap gas to those institutions that are socially sensitive, namely schools, hospitals and kindergartens. [[The bakery, the usual thing, the bakery.]] There is gas everywhere at tariff prices which are lower, many times lower than market prices. [[Look, the president's laughing at you.]] On the other hand, if today you are asking for Polish entrepreneurs, then go to Brussels and recite there. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Because it is the European bureaucrats who forbid us to include companies in tariffs. [[The voice from the room: There's nothing you can do.]] [[Entrepreneurs have a different opinion.]] Read the second gas directive that was adopted during your rule in 2009. [[You can't do anything.]] Then you didn't object to it. TSUE judgments, which prohibited Poland from giving regulated gas prices to companies. Go to Brussels and recant there. Donald Tusk should go there to her colleague and her subordinate, Mrs. von der Leyen of the People's Party, and have her deal with it. [[Applause]] [[It's not working.]] Then it will be with great pleasure to give tariff prices to Polish entrepreneurs as well. [[Applause]] [[Jacek, it's not working.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u12	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, a formal proposal, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, the Polish Socialist Party. There you go, Member. [[Jacek, at least one project you've done...]] [[Keep your voice down!]] [[I'm not talking to you.]] [[Politely!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During yesterday's meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński announced a bill on special rules for protecting the lives of citizens during the pandemic period. This project was to be complemented at night with opposition demands on the protection of citizens' lives and presented today. Of course, it is necessary. PiS was able to develop various projects that were harmful to Poland during the night and implement them within a few hours. I therefore request that the first reading of this project, which we were to receive this morning, be placed on the agenda. Today was 50,000. new cases of disease. Poles get sick, Poles die, we need to act quickly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PPS wheel design on life and health protection activities for 100 days... Thank you, Member. ...is at the disposal of the government for two weeks. Member, I wanted to explain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u14	Thank you very much. It was just a moment ago that this project came in. We will give it to BAS and BL in a moment, and we will try as soon as possible at this meeting to pass this project and to announce it, Madam. Here you go, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Since 29 June last year, there is a draft law in the Seym freezer that would actually protect Poles from creating anti-human segregation law. The Poles are waiting for your Marshal to finally pick up this project, give it a print number and let it process because it is truly pro-Citizenish. This is a project: stop sanitary segregation. I request that the sitting be closed until the printing number has been given and that the next agenda be completed for this draft. Instead of proceding these absurd ideas which the PiS Members will prepare, about segregation and which country you will support, let us finally give Poles something that will actually protect their rights as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u16	Thank you. Mr President, I cannot put this proposal to the vote because it is impossible to close the sitting at which the budget is under consideration. On the other hand, this bill, which you are talking about, has already been rejected twice by the High House. [[Applause]] Here you go, the last formal proposal, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! At the moment of the most expensive, most inflation, the Law and Justice government hit the weakest income. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Yes, Prime Minister. Polish Load hits the income of people with disabilities, the lowest people who are not able to count down the rehabilitation relief today. He hit the income of earning hard-working active pensioners. Finally, he struck the income of single parents. [[What a mean thing to do.]] What have you done, Prime Minister, to single mothers, to get so revenge on them today? [[There's such a thing as...]] The relief for the middle class was to be extended. There has been an amendment of the Polish Order and there are no changes announced by you. [[Don't put your finger on it.]] It was supposed to be an American dream, and the Prime Minister's nightmare really came out. [[Don't scream, baby.]] The 25 days of January have passed, and accountants still don't know how to settle these rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, one more second. Our circle has requested that the agenda be supplemented by an amendment to the law that responds to these challenges. Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... Please attach this draft to the agenda. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. Because small circles also have the right to present their demands.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u18	Madame, this was considered at the Bureau meeting, not at the Convention meeting. It's not okay, we're not going to vote on it because it's not a formal conclusion. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities (print No 1938). I'm gonna ask Senator Richard Bober to present the justification for the bill, but I'm gonna announce a five-minute recess so that the state that doesn't take part in this point leaves the room so that the senator can provide the justification calmly. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 32 hrs. 10 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. Senator Richard Bober is present. I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask the senator to present the reasons for the bill. Members of the High House, Members of the House and Members of the House, I would like your attention, and possibly not interested, to move the discussion outside the Parliamentary Chamber. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u19	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Higher House of the Polish Parliament, the Senate, I would like to present a draft law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. This project was examined in December and was adopted by the High House. At that time, we protected farms and it seemed that the provisions that appeared in the draft law at that time would safeguard the interests of all the groups that are involved in the financing of the agricultural sector, but the banking supervisory committee raised reservations. The Senate held a meeting of representatives of cooperative banks with the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and KOWR and representatives of trade unions of agricultural producers and agricultural chambers. At this meeting, doubts were raised as to the possibility of lending to the agricultural sector. The entries in the draft law adopted by the High House, which we thought would protect the interests of banks, were not entirely appropriate in the eyes of the financial supervision committee. There is a record that the bailiff in the recovery proceedings must apply to the farmhouse for an opinion, from which elements, members of the farm can carry out recovery, and if he does not agree, he may appoint his own expert and then that expert opinion is binding on the bailiff, but there is no way to secure the loans in the perpetual books. For this reason, cooperative banks would already have to set up reserves, according to the bank supervision committee's estimates, of around 200 million. Commercial banks that finance the agricultural sector would also have to create such reserves, and according to these estimates it would be about PLN 400 million. This is due to the concern of all companies which carry out leasing activities in the agricultural sector - estimated size is about 80 billion PLN. All these complicated doubts have been divided by the Senate. Therefore, as regards the provision which was contained in the Finance Minister's Regulation of 5 July 2014, which was not included in the previous Act, we are now asking that this provision be included. It is also important that the National Agricultural Support Centre, which actually has in its responsibilities to restructure agricultural holdings, could not properly carry out this restructuring, because it would not be possible to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Senator, I'm sorry. Could I ask your Members to silence the discussion so that the senator, who is a guest in our House, can properly present the project's assumptions? The problem presented by the Director-General of KOWR was clearly that the provision which imposed the obligation for that institution to carry out the restructuring of agricultural holdings could also not be properly implemented in that respect, that there could be no permanent record of the burden in the perpetual books. A similar problem has also been reported by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, which has the resources to support the agricultural sector as well as the peri-agricultural sector, indicating that some of the resources at its disposal are also secured in such a way that this is reflected in the eternal books. This problem is actually very important on the eve of the start of spring work on agricultural holdings (the bell) so that the entire credit action can be financed smoothly in such a difficult situation as agriculture is currently under increasing prices of agricultural inputs. Therefore, I ask the High House to proceed as a matter of urgency over the bill submitted and to adopt it as proposed by the Senate. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u20	Thank you very much, senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position towards the Senate's submission on the revision of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. By sharing the whole argument that you have put forward here, which is also reflected in the justification for the draft resolution of the Senate introducing this procedated bill under the Sejm, it must be said that this law is in fact the conclusion of the amendment of the law, which was finalised in December - the Code of Civil Procedure. This regulation meets the expectations of both the banking sector and agricultural operators. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the Sejm proceed on this bill and that this bill be sent to the relevant committees in accordance with the decision of the Sejm Bureau. Therefore, at this stage we should be in favour of this submission. I am so convinced that the legislative process will be completed quickly. Here it should be stressed that in fact, the December amendment of the law - the Code of Civil Procedure and today's process are aimed primarily at raising to the statutory rank those provisions which actually improved the functioning of the agricultural production sector, which gives greater guarantees that the interests of farmers and thus the interests of the bank should be better protected. The adoption of this law will result in the smooth financing of agricultural activities carried out primarily by individual farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Piotr Boris to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I wanted to present a position on the Act amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. I wanted to thank Senator Bober for his extensive presentation of the arguments. In fact, the Senate has taken, for which we thank, the initiative resulting from individual petitions to regulate all these matters. We worked on the bill in December, but there was a lack of one element, which would then allow for the full implementation of the assumptions of the law. We therefore fully support the Senate initiative in order to add to the relevant provisions a specific article of the Act, which above all protects, gives special protection to the farmer who runs the farm when the execution is directed to his property. Everything came from the fact that certain provisions which previously covered the Regulation of the Minister of Justice, which gave a catalogue of items belonging to the farmer which are not subject to enforcement, were not actually taken into account. Therefore, today we are in a situation where these provisions must take into account the earlier assumptions of the Minister of Justice, which will actually allow a farmer to benefit from guarantees and loans, because today, under the existing rules, there is no such possibility, simply banks need to secure their deposits in the form of perpetual books and, in turn, the guarantor, which is the National Agricultural Support Centre, requires entry into the mortgage law under heading 1. We will therefore support all three proposals put forward to unlock this situation. First of all, amendments to the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. It's about adding an article. 829.5, which will disable the article. 8291, 8294. They will not be applicable if the execution is simultaneously directed to all the property belonging to the holding held by the debtor. This is the most important change. Secondly, the amendment of the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities by repealing the article. 6. The point is, there's no obligation to enter a mortgage in position one. It was a requirement before. This imposed an entry on position one as a guarantor of the credit KOWR. Thirdly, the Act will enter into force and will cover all pending and unfinished processes which take place on the date of its entry into force. These three articles comprehensively exhaust the blockades that emerged after the introduction of the law. The bill is worth passing. Thank you once again to the Senator and the Senate of the Republic of Poland for the initiative. I think we'll all agree. We need to help farmers take credit. It's important that KOWR can have them. [[Applause]] guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński to present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in the High Chamber the first reading of the Senate draft law on amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the law on debt restructuring of agricultural operators, print No. 1938 takes place. I would like to say on behalf of our club that it is good that we have the Senate, and it is good that this House is trying to correct the mistakes made during the drafting of laws in our country. I would like to thank the senators very warmly for leaning on the problems of people who have not been noticed by the authors of the bill. Today we have to fix these mistakes. I would like to thank Senator Richard Bober very warmly for his good presentation of the bill. Of course, we have a few questions about this bill. In case of e.g. a directing of executions to all property belonging to the holding would not have been an intentional change in the content of the article itself. 829? My club welcomes the bill submitted to change the law - the Code of Civil Procedure and will support its adoption by the High House. Thank you very much again to the Senate for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. The Act aims to restore the regulation, which was omitted in the Civil Procedure novel adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2021. The Act amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, which came from the Senate's submission, was adopted following the inclusion of the requests formulated in an individual petition and entered into force on 10 January 2022. This Act, by adding the amended provisions of Article to the Act. 829.1 829.4, regulated in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Act and the Constitution issues relating to the special protection of the farmer holding the agricultural holding in the event of the execution of the property belonging to him. In addition, the amendment proposed in the Article. 2 of the proposed law boils down to the deletion in the Law of 9 November 2018 on the restructuring of the debt of agricultural holding entities art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3, which relates to the condition relating to the entry of the mortgage in the first place. This amendment makes it not necessary to include a mortgage on agricultural property owned by an agricultural holding operator in favour of KOWR as a condition for guaranteeing the repayment of the restructuring loan. This in turn should contribute to the wider application by the NEBR of the instrument in the form of a guarantee of repayment of the restructuring loan to the bank with which the holding company has concluded a conditional credit agreement. High Izbo! The amendment of the Civil Procedure Code discussed by the Sejm in December last year was intended to protect farmers from the seizure by bailiffs of the most important components of the farm, i.e. basic agricultural machinery or animals. In principle, this law was good and effective. To a large extent, she defended farmers' assets. However, the legislator did not take into account the provisions contained in § 5 of the Regulation. That provision provided that the Regulation would not apply if all the properties of the debtor's holding were to be sent simultaneously to the holding. However, the omission of this provision will have a significant impact on the process of raising funds by farmers. The condition for the granting of credit by financial institutions is to provide adequate collateral in the event that the debtor fails to comply with the obligation entered into. In turn, the failure to satisfy the claim with the assets belonging to the farmer, and consequently the possibility of establishing the required security, because de facto such effect may have the functioning of the Civil Procedure Code in its current form, may lead to the fact that farmers will not be able to obtain financing for their agricultural activities. The problem of preventing the financing of the agricultural sector resulting from changes in the law - Code of Civil Procedure also drew attention to the Polish Bank Association. The provisions of the Law of 2 December 2021 amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure in the current wording will absolutely reduce the financing of agriculture. The current rules prevent creditors, i.e. banks, leasing companies, machinery suppliers, plant protection products, seed offering farmers commercial loans which have established in-kind collateral, meeting their claims and, in the case of new contracts, establishing in-kind collateral for such loans. Consequently, this regulation will disrupt and prevent the efficient financing of agriculture. This is highlighted by the representatives of companies that are long-standing partners in the agro sector. A positive opinion on the project is expressed by agricultural chambers of individual voivodships, as well as by other agricultural institutions. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will support the amendment of this bill (The Bell) so that Polish agriculture and farmers can benefit from credit services in 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Confederation, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important bill, and I have no particular doubt as to its validity today. Where a farmer wishes to take credit, he additionally needs credit guarantees, there is therefore a need to adapt the right to the condition before December 2021, i.e. to amend the Civil Procedure Code. The rationale for making changes and the fact that we are again looking at such a law, not another law, is the result of continuous inflation of law according to the philosophy of some colleagues in this House, which assumes that all problems are dealt with only through the law and the creation of new rules, and not necessarily through real action e.g. Ministry that you can close your eyes once you have prepared certain regulations, and wait for events. But that doesn't often change the situation. Why am I talking about this? Well, the situation in which we change the law again, when we have to lean on the issue of restricting the execution of farmers, may also be related to ASF and to how many of them have been affected by restrictions, increases in the price of fertilisers, as many have been affected by avian influenza, the number of herds, even pigs, have been eradicated in recent months. This case involves another issue, a matter of compensation. I've talked to farmers in the last few weeks. They point to another problem. The farmers who operate in ASF risk zones say that there is also a problem with sales on their part. I therefore call on the Minister to lean on the proposal that these farmers have made regarding their credit vacations. As we are talking about loans, banks, farmers, farmers, farmers are also calling for a credit holiday at a time when they are not solvent. They just need a bill like that when they were touched by the ASF. If we're going to do this inflation of the law, let's do it in a different, good direction - even for a quarter. Even if this is needed in a quarter to maintain their own financial liquidity, because leasing of machinery will not pay itself back, and when farmers are unable to sell pigs, they are not able to pay back money, which involves enforcement problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u30	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u31	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies, print No. 1938. High Izbo! From 10 January this year. has entered into force an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, which has been adopted as a result of taking into account the requests made in the petition addressed to Parliament. The reason for these changes was the need for proper regulation of matters relating to the special protection of the farmer holding the holding in the event of the execution of his property. As I said, it was an individual petition to formulate a bill and to carry out the procedure for adopting these provisions by Parliament. Unfortunately, as part of the amendments proposed in this petition, no amendment related to § 5 of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice on the identification of items belonging to a farmer holding a holding which are not subject to enforcement has been made. The absence of these provisions has caused problems with the operation of the credit facility in relation to farmers operating agricultural holdings who need such support. First of all, the lending banking sector must lead to a situation where the credit will be secured by appropriate assets. Unfortunately, the absence of the rules in question, which have been included in today's project, has caused this to be impossible, firstly, because of the issue of proper regulation of this area, secondly, because the provisions provided for the need to put first in the mortgage commitments which are linked to the granting of support by the National Agricultural Support Centre. This draft law, which was addressed to the Senate by the Senate, both contains an amendment relating to enforcement cases with regard to the application of appropriate safeguards, as well as standardizes issues related to the fact that this safeguard for the National Centre for Agricultural Support (Bell) will not be applied in its present form. As these rules meet the expectations of both farmers and the banking sector, they also improve the situation of farmers holding farms, Poland 2050 will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak, who will present the position of the Kukiz Group15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. The title is as beautiful as possible, but it should be asked: Who do you want to defend? Who do you really care about: is it this stronger entity, which are banks or farmers? Do you still want to allow farmers to indebt and then their assets to be auctioned? You're acting like a drug dealer who walks and complains and says he can't sell drugs because a year ago the regulations were sealed and he's running out of business. Is that what you care about? It's like, I don't know, an alcoholic was going to the bank to get another loan to keep his family trapped in debt. We are now introducing a series of solutions with law and justice that are about to be improved. The profitability of agriculture and this is the direction in which we should go. Maybe it's time to introduce normal law in Poland, as it is in some states of the United States. The thing is, when you give credit, you give credit for something and then you take that thing. So when you give a loan to an apartment, to a machine, you take an apartment, a machine, and you don't take an entire farm. Which way are we going? And under the beautiful words of this speaker just now, that farmers want even more credits... I'm sure some people want to, but now you're making such an entrance, that we're about to have a whole lot of betting right now, because someone, I'm going to say colloquially, made a business plan so that something's going to be worthwhile. Because you know what happens when you make a business plan: if you don't pay a pig after 4 zlotys, let's type in 6 zlotys and the business plan comes together. But what happens next? Why do we continue to allow banks to be cash suppliers and then: manage yourself, manage yourself in some way? We really are about to lead to a series of tragedies in the countryside. Banks are stronger, and we should be helping these weaker players - farmers. We should keep an eye on them, not allow them to continue to be indebted to farms. This solution is a very harmful solution. In a moment we will have protests from those farmers who just lost their entire fatherhood (the Bell) through the bailiffs, and did not come out of the debt trap. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. [[What are you talking about?]] [[You have to listen.]] That concludes the introduction of clubs and wheels. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[It's better to start with each other.]] Could you please silence the discussion, possibly move it out of the Seym? 13 people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Questions to the Minister: If this was not the solution proposed by the Senate, would it be difficult for farmers to obtain loans? Second: If this had not been the case, would banks have to create reserves in line with the recommendation of the Commission for Financial Supervision, and savings could then be threatened, including the savings of farmers in the bank? I am surprised because Mr Sachajko said it very strangely. Banks, these are institutions that, on the one hand, give loans or provide collateral loans and, on the other hand, have to guarantee money, i.e. deposits that are collected in them. But I have another question for the Minister about the profitability of agriculture, because this parity falls every year. And the other thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you finally do something so that the entries in the eternal books can be made much faster? This is an intervention with the Minister of Justice. The aim is to ensure that customers, i.e. even borrowers and farmers, do not have to pay additional funds if no entry is made in the perpetual book, which the farmer agrees to by borrowing. How would a lack of this solution make it difficult for farmers to function on the market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u36	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Szewiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the crisis, galloping inflation, rising energy prices, the spectrum of bankruptcy of small Polish companies, the Polish government predicts as part of a shield protecting against the so-called. The implementation of similar regulations addressed to other professional groups, Poles conducting business activities? I am talking about the possibility of excluding from the execution of certain assets necessary for the conduct of business activities and the possession of credit, based on the provisions contained in this draft law on exemption from the execution of certain movable and agricultural property. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u38	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The situation of farmers, food producers has deteriorated significantly. The multiple increase in the prices of fertilisers and other agricultural inputs has led to the need to finance the purchase of these funds from other sources and mainly from bank loans. The December amendment has made the possibility of borrowing these loans much worse and most farmers will not be able to do so. That is why this bill is very right and I think that all Members will support it. In this context, I have a question to ask the Minister: What kind of aid is the government going to give to farmers in connection with such a drastic increase in the price of fertilisers? Will the Senate's proposal, which suggests that farmers should receive subsidies for purchasing fertilisers (the bell) that will be discussed at this meeting, be accepted? What's the government's position? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u41	Minister! High Seym! Dear Marshal, This law is very important, because the current law, which entered into force on 10 January, makes it impossible to properly credit agriculture. This applies to almost 300,000. holdings in the country. Without the possibility of efficient lending assistance, the possibility of extensive agricultural production, especially in high-quality farms, would be properly discontinued. I would like to ask you, first of all, Minister: In accordance with the budget that we are going to adopt today following the Senate amendments, what are the measures envisaged for aid for preferential loans to agriculture? I would ask for an answer in writing. Secondly: What is the expected aid to farmers due to very high fertiliser prices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law would also prevent the proper functioning of cooperative banks, hence it is good that there is this initiative of the Senate, which will introduce changes to allow Polish agriculture to be loaned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it would not be a deliberate change in the content of the article if all the properties of the holding were to be sent simultaneously. 829. The question is - I will ask for an opinion and I will ask for a written reply - to the Minister. It's in the article. 829 A cow, two goats and three sheep are excluded from the execution. The law was created in 1964, so a little different, as it seems, was reality. If the bank takes over the entire holding as a result of the execution, it seems that the bailiff on the string is to bring the farmer a cow, three sheep and two goats. The exclusion of this article in 2022 does not seem to put the debtor in debt, but, on the contrary, may impose additional costs on him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will be obliged to the Minister for this reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u44	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the draft law on amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities supported by the Senate Left. I have no questions for the senator, but I have a question for the Minister. Minister, I would like to hear from you about the number of refused credit applications for farmers in 2021. How many of these situations have happened this year? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u46	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the senator and I would very much ask for a comprehensive answer. It is clear that the provisions in the current wording may hinder the credit action, which will result in a significant deterioration in the situation of farmers operating agricultural holdings. All over the world, tightenings, collateral for lending work in the same way. So if someone wants to receive a loan in a business situation, they have to provide a rational plan that will enable them to obtain income securing repayment. If farmers do not receive this loan, they will not be able to operate. How much less agricultural production can it take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many farmers can face the need to stop if these rules are not adopted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u48	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I wanted to thank the Senate for this bill because he serves the Polish farmer. Polish farmers deserve to be supported - both those who run big farms and those who run small farms. Most farmers in Poland cannot function without loans, and this law will allow them to apply for these loans. This law is also beneficial for banks. It is also a matter of ensuring that these ingredients, which are most important for agricultural production, can be fully secured so that the farmer can run his farm. I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u50	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: What are you going to do to speed up the real restructuring process of indebted holdings? We know that the delays that result from KOWR's tardiness, the Industrial Development Agency, cause farmers who have fallen into debt spirals to simply not get out of it. I also listened to the words of Mr Sachajka, who is speaking here today, with fear. The point is that farmers who have to borrow, use Polish banks, predictable banks, otherwise they will reach for money from parabanks, after various kinds of moments. This is a huge problem for many farmers today. If we see that the loan action in January has come to the conclusion that farmers have a problem with the loans they had previously taken, and today there is (the bell) a problem with securing these loans, then this needs to be changed as soon as possible, not to tell a fairy tale, Mr. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u52	Thank you very much. And what is called by Mr Jarosław Sachajko will have the opportunity not only to ask the question, but probably to refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the minister, a request to tell us here how many farms have gone bankrupt in the past decade. How many of these farms have been bidding? This will explain how the banks operate. And for the senator, I have a question, a request to explain here what it's all about, that the banks will have to make reserves. Isn't it just that they gave out loans just to gain from it, to give out loans, knowing that they would be insolvent? And now we've secured the farms so they can't bid on it, and we need to make provision for those loans that shouldn't be granted. Senator, that is the problem - that is the problem that (the bell) banks have granted loans, now they want to bid, and the state allows them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u54	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! More and more Polish farms are bankrupting. Especially those who breed cattle and poultry in red zones have powerful payment congestion. That is why the farm restructuring law is in operation. I would like to receive an answer from the Minister on the following matter. In order for the farms to continue to function, there is a recovery programme, a restructuring programme. The ODR shall deliver an opinion within 30 days on these corrective programmes. How many of these programmes have been adopted across the country? How many loans did the holding receive from ARiMR, how many positive opinions were issued and what guarantee does KOWR provide? Because today more and more farmers are falling into payment congestion, this scale is getting bigger, and we are here with this bill that my predecessor spoke of (the bell) about... Well, banks have to lend to farmers so that farmers can operate normally. There are commodity holdings that need these loans, there are debt holdings that need recovery programmes, restructuring programmes, so we should divide this into two areas. What is the repair programme, the restructuring programme of Polish agriculture, those farms that are in debt? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This can be solved in two ways: either to treat the effect or to consider the cause. The cause of the difficult situation of Polish farms is the share of added value, i.e. agricultural income, in global agricultural production. In Poland it is about 38%, in Italy - 56% In Romania, 54%. Many countries have introduced solutions that improve this situation: France, Spain - similar laws, Italy too. And I have a question for the senator: Why are we here (the bell) dealing with symptoms, why didn't the Senate decide to remove the causes of this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska closes the list of people who have been written to questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u59	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I believe that the draft law is good because it already regulates in an official way the difficulties that a farmer may encounter, who will need credit for, for example, current activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of running a farm is increasing, even if the price of fertilisers is so high that no one can bear it, and no one is putting money into a closet for a black hour. Times are what they are, entrepreneurs are bankrupt, farms are bankrupt. This happens, and that is why such assistance and such support are very much needed precisely so that farmers do not have to use the services of parabanks. And questions. When this law has passed, what will the farmer really be able to count on, what are the conditions? How KOWR will support him [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aside from the guarantee? And how will the bank treat him? I ask you to answer how many entities in KOWR's numbers have given a guarantee [[Applause]] in the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u60	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor and refer to the club speeches and possibly the questions of Minister Richard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we are considering the Senate project, the bill amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know so far, the issues we are leaning on today have been governed by the regulation of the Minister of Justice on the identification of the items belonging to the farmer who runs the farm. On 10 January this year. a law has entered into force in which the solutions contained in the Regulation, which I mentioned earlier, although not all of them, have been recorded. Solutions included in the above mentioned above. The Regulation of the Minister of Justice is reflected in the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. The exception was that the legislator did not take into account the regulation contained in § 5 of the Regulation. That provision provides that the Regulation shall not apply in the event of simultaneous referral of enforcement to all the property belonging to the agricultural holding operated by the farmer. The omission of this provision has a significant impact on the process of raising funds. The condition for financial institutions to grant credit is to provide adequate collateral in the event that the debtor fails to comply with the obligation entered into. In turn, the failure to satisfy the claim from the assets belonging to the farmer and, consequently, the lack of establishing the required security results in such a result that it can lead to and lead to the fact that farmers will not be able to obtain financing for their agricultural activity. Ladies and gentlemen! Following the introduction of the legislation, the entry into force of the law - the Code of Civil Procedure has arisen an important problem, as banks have stopped lending to farmers. Here we are talking about security, but for today the issue concerns those farmers who want to invest who produce. We want this solution, which is proposed by the Senate, to return to the records that functioned through the Regulation of the Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Agriculture supports the bill in this section. This support stems primarily from the intervention of agricultural organisations that have come to us, but also from the banking sector. Farmers must be able to obtain credits, turnover credits, investment loans for their current activities, as well as for the development of their farms, also in connection with the acquisition of European funds. We therefore support this solution, but we have doubts about the article. 2. I propose that the Agriculture Committee discuss this article, lean on it and therefore also on the title of the law. For, in accordance with the Decision of the European Commission of 8 April 2020 on the compatibility of the scheme, State aid for restructuring the debt of agricultural holdings is laid down in Article. 6 of this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The guarantee of repayment of the restructuring loan could only be granted until 31 December 2021 and therefore this change in the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities is currently irrelevant. Mr. Marshal! Only two more sentences, referring to the questions, because I ran out of time. Of course, this is a solution for this § 5, which previously existed in the Regulation, is supported by us. Farmers must be able to obtain credit. It's up to them to decide. We don't replace them here. It is the farmer who decides when and for what he takes the credit and what risks he bears. And those safeguards we're talking about should secure the farm and give it the opportunity to repay the loan. Nevertheless, I propose that the agricultural committee lean on this article. 2 because in our opinion, the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, for today's change, this entry is pointless. I will answer the other questions in writing to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Will the representative of the applicants present in the Chamber, Senator Richard Bober, please take the floor? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, I would like to remind you that farmers are actually the most reliable borrower. This problem concerns not more than 15% loans granted - this is what the banks estimate and the Financial Supervision Commission estimates. Do we really change in this bill... Indeed, in the previous wording, we have been betting on the protection of the farmer. And all these records remain. I would like to remind you that at that time the bailiff was also entitled to apply for his own expert, whose opinion was binding. If the expert found that the recovery of the individual elements was ineffective, he could direct the whole farm... In contrast, the restoration of the record, which says that it will actually be possible to establish collateral for loans on assets, on perpetual books, is also an important element for KOWR, which is carrying out restructuring. Let us remember that KOWR has taken over the tasks of the agricultural property agency and also provides loans and sells agricultural land on a loan or deferred basis, spread over instalments of payments. And those security features are. The question was why farm restructuring was so weak. In fact, this has so far been the case for about five farms. This is very little, but the record, which is that the banks actually have to give up the priority in the perpetual books for KOWR, is the element that blocks it. At a joint meeting of cooperative banks, KOWR and the restructuring agency, there was a commitment that these issues must be resolved in the presence of the Minister of Agriculture in order to actually move smoothly to the restructuring of agricultural holdings that have problems. Why we change the causes, not the law - such a question came up. Indeed, it is possible to treat farmers as the most reliable... But this is a long procedure that requires a change in banking law. The Minister of Finance, in agreement with the central bank, would have to establish other weights for agriculture in the case of collateral. At this point, according to the rules that are, there's no way. The Commission for Financial Supervision, which has already started normal checks at cooperative banks, will demonstrate that banks are obliged to reserve loans already granted. But since this project is being dealt with as a matter of urgency, I think that these comments will not result in banks having to create collateral. Small banks can't handle it, big banks can create collateral. The result of failing to accept these solutions proposed by the Senate will be that banks will start making some loans, and then they will force farmers - it has already happened in this Chamber - to go towards other financial opportunities, towards parabanks. Thank you very much, Marshal, and please accept the provisions of the bill proposed by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u64	Thank you very much, senator. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities, contained in print No 1938, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be considered at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities (prints No. 1960 and 1960-A). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the project. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]] [[Good morning. Can you hear me? Yeah, I guess so.]] [[Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The most important objective of this project is to implement the announcements of securing funds for occupational rehabilitation funds for people with disabilities and occupational activity funds. Currently the operator of the sheltered work is obliged to set up an occupational rehabilitation fund for persons with disabilities, while the establishment of an occupational activity fund is set up. The funds that come from these occupational funds are fully allocated to the financing of occupational, social and medical rehabilitation of persons with disabilities who are employed in these establishments. In total, such funds operate with around 900 employers and support around 100,000. persons with disabilities.]] [[The occupational rehabilitation funds for persons with disabilities and the occupational activity fund shall be created from the resources derived from part of the income tax advances collected from the employees of such an establishment. The increase of the tax-free amount to 30,000 was realized in January this year. zł means a significant reduction in taxes for persons employed in sheltered workplaces. As a result of this change, many people with disabilities simply will not pay PIT at all, because their pay oscillates around the minimum wage. This is of course a very expected and beneficial effect for people with disabilities. As a result of these changes they will simply have more money in their wallets.]] [[On the other hand, since the advances on income tax on salaries of workers account for around 80% of the funds of these funds, the absence of tax paid on salaries of persons with disabilities could have a negative impact on their financing. This issue was raised during the parliamentary work last autumn. Also from this speaker it was ensured that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, would present solutions that would address this threat. Today they are the subject of this submission. What exactly is this gonna look like? According to the proposed regulation, fund managers will be entitled to receive assistance from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, i.e. PFRON, this year. For each disabled person employed, this amount will be 4% of the lowest salary. This year PFRON will finance support from its own resources, and from next year it will be able to receive a grant from the state budget, up to PLN 150 million.]] [[This submission also contains two changes concerning tax changes of the Polish Order. The first is the statutory regulation of extending the time limits for collection and payment of the income tax advance. This issue has already been regulated by the Finance Minister's regulation of 7 January this year, while the transfer of this regulation from the regulation to the statutory level will increase the protection of workers from the situation in which the employer, while waiting for the statutory regulation, would charge them higher tax advances than would have been the case under existing legislation. Secondly, the proposal clarifies in favour of taxpayers the rules on the use of the tax-free amount not only at the end of the year but already at the deduction stage of monthly tax advances. Such an application for a monthly deduction of part of the amount free shall be made on the PIT-2 form. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, such an application may be submitted to the employer by the employee at any time, including during the tax year. As a result, the employer will charge the employee a lower advance from the following month. Despite this information from the Ministry of Finance, some employers expect a precise guarantee of this possibility in the Act - and that is what we propose.]] [[In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Gontarz will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, prints No. 1960 and 1960-A. The above draft law consists of three essential parts. The first part concerns a clear and decisive clarification of the possibility of submitting PIT-2 within a certain period of time during the tax year. To date, the situation was such that PIT-2 could only be submitted before the first payment in a given tax year. We change that, we give taxpayers the opportunity to submit PIT-2 as well. during the course of the tax year. This is particularly important because we have raised the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł. From this point of view, I would like to stress that for 8 years our predecessors raised the tax-free amount by PLN 2. We raised the tax-free amount by PLN 26,909 during our governments. At this point, the tax-free amount - unlike what was before, when it had a symbolic dimension - has a real dimension. Therefore, the submission of PIT-2 results in the deduction of the amount of PLN 425 from the advance on income tax, which represents real support for the monthly budget. Previously, it was only 43 zł, which in the case of average salary represents even less than 1% monthly salary. So this bill goes against it. Some people simply did not submit PIT-2 before because there was no need because the tax-free amount was so low. The second part of this law applies to all people working on the board, on contract of employment, pensioners, who earn up to PLN 12 800. The Polish Government assumes that either these people will benefit from it in a tax context, or it will be a neutral change for them. On an annual basis, this would be the case, but before 7 January, when the Finance Minister's regulation came into force, there could be a situation where a person who will ultimately gain on the Polish Łada received a lower monthly salary than it was one month to one month, e.g. January to December, for example, because she did not submit PIT-2. As a result, it received a lower of PLN 425 due to the fact that it was collected under the income tax advance. Therefore, we have prepared such proposals which assume that all people who earn up to PLN 12 800, whether they are pensioners, whether they are pensioners, working on the contract of an order, working on the job, all these people, also on a monthly basis, or will gain on the Polish Łada, or it will be neutral for them. For example, if not for such regulation, then the person who makes 3.5 thousand. gross, on a yearly basis the Polish Lad would gain about PLN 1700, even over PLN 1700, but on a monthly basis it could lose; e.g. If she had not submitted PIT-2, she could have received less remuneration. That is why we are introducing a regulation that will ensure that a month to a month for this person is at least neutral. Of course, in the annual account this person will gain over PLN 1700, and if he deposits PIT-2, he will still gain around 147 per month and it will of course be very beneficial for this person. As for all those who speak and suggest that the Polish Load is a tragedy for all, I would just like to point out that the economic foundation of the Senate noticed that for 11 500 thousand. household changes introduced in the Polish Deal will be beneficial; only for 6% really the richest households - really for 6% households, the really wealthiest ones - it may have some negative dimensions. For the vast majority, for 94% it will be beneficial or neutral. For 11.5 million of approx. 13,800,000. households will benefit from this. The third part of this law concerns people with disabilities. As the Minister rightly pointed out, sheltered work facilities, as well as professional activities, are required to create occupational rehabilitation funds for people with disabilities, as well as occupational activity funds. But due to the increase in the amount of oil from the time of the Government of Law and Justice - I will stress, by PLN 26 909 - people with disabilities very often do not pay tax at all or pay income tax in the form of a minimum, and this represents about 80% the funds of those establishments. That is why we have presented a proposal that dispatchers will be able to apply for assistance from PFRON, so that people with disabilities (the bell) gain not only in tax terms, but also in order to preserve the tasks associated with rehabilitation, treatment of disability, activation. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u66	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We're starting today the process of repairing a giant bubble, [[Applause]] What you've generated under the name of a new tax order. I will remind you of the first sentence of the justification of this mother project: The aim is to create a friendly and fair tax system. After all, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is no longer some ordinary creator, Prime Minister. That, by the way, sounds in every word he says. It's not just a maker, it's a maker. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] By kindness, I will not exchange the works of this maker. I wouldn't want to touch him either. I certainly wouldn't be able to name all his supposed works. [[I'm sure you do.]] The effect of your voter race is grieving. I repeat, this is a gigantic chaos, a gigantic mess resulting from the lack of meaningful preparation from the foundation of this project. The old Praxeological principle says: if something goes wrong, it won't work for sure. We warned, we asked, we appealed, we tabled amendments - you were deaf. You have seen total opposition everywhere, in people of science, in specialists, authorities of tax law, tax advisors, accountants, associations, trade unions, even in sejm legislators. We all asked for caution and discretion, because the tax system hates mere quality, hates understatements. And we bounced off the wall. You didn't even give us time to read the project. At that time he did not even have RCL: the Government Legislative Center did not analyze, did not accept this project. [[Applause]] That wasn't the time the Legal Bureau had. We all said there were traps and mistakes. Today I might ask: Who wrote you this project? [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Whoever it is, it really should be embarrassed tonight. And so you are ashamed of the employees of the Ministry of Finance who do not admit to this project, but above all the officials of the tax administration, because it falls on them all the odium for this bullshit and Poles take their anger out on them. And you could have avoided this mess. But today's project is another proof that you didn't learn any lessons because the project came in yesterday at hours. 19 and not until after 1 p.m. 19 could be read on the sejm pages. And it only really concerns two issues, i.e. advance payment, which we discussed in the course of the discussion on the relevant project, and issues related to protected employment and professional activities, loss of income. At the same time, it is worth noting that the changes you are talking about do not lead to a reduction in taxes, but only modify the obligations of payers, employers, contractors and pension bodies to collect advance payments on personal income tax, because it is technically to be done in such a way that the payer will now have to calculate the advance according to the 2021 and 2022 rules and will make adjustments. But in fact, the final settlement will be on the basis of the rules laid down in 2022 and it may turn out that some at the end of December or in the tax settlement will have to pay a lot more. What isn't in this project, and what did you promise, you promised the Prime Minister? There is still no certainty in the application of the mid-class credit for contractors, pensions and pensions. There is no proposal concerning the real problem created by the Polish Load, which is the rules of clearing parents who raise their own children. We warned you, we said you didn't want to hear it. The Prime Minister promised. Where is it? There is no proposal for a principle which, incidentally, I do not understand completely, as expressed by the Prime Minister, i.e. It's a gold chip for a gold chip. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister spoke publicly of this and declared it. Finally, there are no fundamental issues in my view, namely the taxation of economic activities. Here we have a real drama - new administrative responsibilities plus new tax burdens. This is not a good time to bring them in. We observed, we said: you drive inflation and will ruin tens, if not thousands, tens of thousands of Polish companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u68	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Darius Evening to present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was supposed to be beautiful - beautiful adverts, implementation of the Polish Łódź, we were to benefit from 17 million Poles to benefit from the Polish Łada, 17 billion were to remain in the pockets of Poles and Poles. Unfortunately, it came out as usual under the rule of law and justice. So far, no one in democratic Poland has made such a mess about the tax system, and has not created such difficulties for both employees and employers and companies. Let's just remind you that the tax system doesn't move in within 20 days. We were talking about the fact that a law that counted 700 pages can't be conducted in this way. When it comes to all the things that we're talking about today and that you're trying to fix here, of course, to make sure it's clear: it just can't be fixed, you have to throw it in the trash, get it out, and work on it calmly for a year. We said he couldn't do it in such a short time. All these mistakes, the reservations were being said, and that was said by experts, said by local governments, said by the Members. Everyone said there was a very serious problem, because all these legal solutions are unclear, we don't know how they're going to work in reality. And for political reasons, the middle class's relief has such a pattern that I, as an engineer, find it difficult to understand what this formula is all about. So it was known that there would just be one big disaster, and there was no doubt about it. And the disaster came from a simple thing - you tricked us all, because instead of any tax reduction and tax relief, you introduced an increase in taxes. Let me just remind you that so far we have all paid as employees 9% health contributions, indeed, were, but we actually deducted 7,75% from the tax and reduced the tax advances every month, and the real cost of our wages was 1,25%. So how do you explain lowering taxes? You've increased this tax by 7.75%. Because today's health contribution is 9%. And just so we're clear, you've added another 7.75%. because you can't deduct that amount of health contributions from the tax. Theoretically, and that was the point, the tax-free amount will compensate. Well, then you had to take the calculators and see if it would actually make up for it or not. In most cases it didn't compensate, and so in January teachers and uniforms got less wages, because you didn't take into account that, I don't know, the teacher works several jobs, so he hasn't got the strength to pay less. Similarly, when it comes to pensioners. That was kind of weird, wasn't it? After all, retirement is an acquired right. If someone's worked for 30, 40 years, and good, he's retired 5,000 today. zł - she may seem very big nowadays - what right do you take from the money created by the Polish citizen, by the Polish employee by the introduction of this kind of system? Mistakes concerning people with disabilities - today you are trying to fix it. The mistake that there is an unconstitutional regulation by the Minister of Finance - you are also trying to correct it. But take the judgments of the Constitutional Court of the last 10, 20 years. They say briefly: tax issues cannot be determined during the tax year, because taxes are determined - so that there is confidence of Poles and Poles in the state - 30 days before the end of the year. Today, you are trying to put this regulation of the Minister of Finance into this bill, but just so we're clear, it's all illegal. And just so we're clear: tell us today that this law as a state, as a state budget, as prime minister, as a government of PiS, you are simply giving an untaxed loan to the Polish people and Poles who are going to deduct less of these advances today, but you will come for these advances in the first quarter of 2023 (the bell), when all these reduced advances will have to be paid to the Tax Office and brought to the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! And the question is, what was it for? Only, unfortunately, there are not many respondents to this question today. As the previous speakers said today, you did not have to listen to opposition politicians, but experts, economic authorities, tax specialists from the very beginning of the so-called procession. Polish Łady, who proved to be a disorder, told you clearly that the wrong way, not so fast, not shortcuts, not without being remembered. Stupid, though, but it worked out the way it did. Today, of course, you take small steps to try to repair, only that the spectrum of the crash is so wide that I don't know if it's due to these small corrections. the effect will not sometimes be reversed. It was supposed to be so good, and entrepreneurs are losing, and it's not international corporations, as you tend to say, just one-man business and micro- and small businesses. They lose active pensioners who work, who want to be needed by society. Finally, people who have served in uniform formation for many years lose their teachers. This is an incredible scale of failure. Finally, parents lose their own parents, single parents. They are losing, which is already in particular appalling, ladies and gentlemen, Members representing the Sejm majority, widows and widows, who have so far been able to account with their children. Today, they have been deprived of this opportunity. In particular, as a club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, we are dealing with this group, because it really boils down to a lot of irregularities when it comes to the behaviour of the public authorities towards precisely those families who have the same rights under the Constitution as any other family. They should not be deprived of acquired rights, and there is a suspicion that such deprivation has taken place. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is too small a step to guarantee that this whole scale of incorrect effects of the changes will somehow have a positive impact on citizens. Today, however, I would like to suggest to the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, the government, to consider the suspension, the suspension of these changes, because it would probably give a better effect than an attempt to repair what has already been corrupted into clippings. Consider whether it is not really better to return to the previous situation and to calmly prepare tax law solutions that will serve in a real and effective way rather than spoil. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to the speaker of Arthur Dziambor to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u73	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about your biggest project, a project that was supposed to save your government, which was supposed to help all Poles, who you have been advertising for many months and to which you have conducted Poles on billboards, in advertisements and on leaflets, which everyone got into the mailboxes as part of an unaddressed print. That's where you guys were talking about how pretty much everyone's gonna benefit from it. You were talking about millions of people who would benefit from all this. You showed the tables, which made it clear that of course you want the middle and lower middle classes to finance the least earners with a slight increase, which you've already approved, by increasing the lowest national level. And then you saw that it wasn't a little tense, so you came up with a little relief for the middle class. Then you threw in a few other things. The mess got gigantic. Because of this giant mess, there was a situation where the teachers first got hit. Within this next week, two weeks there will be payouts for other groups that will get even more hit than you will get even more hit. Already today, we know that single parents who raise their children have been hit, and they have been hit hugely. Today I sent an interpellation to the ministry because what you did with single parents raising children is a scandal. Many families were hit because the relief for large families was also removed when the child allowed to earn something. It's also an absolutely outrageous blow. Your pro-family politics went completely in the sand the moment you adopted the New Deal. It's a hit in the middle class, it's a hit in the entrepreneurs, it's a hit in the micro- and small enterprises, in the one-man business that you actually want to kill, because these are the people that are the ones that are most into you. Those who carry out their own single-person activities are the greatest enemies you've had from the very beginning, because they're people who don't have to reach out for your charity, and they won't be looking at what social programs you're going to try to bribe them with. You did something that was going to completely take out the private sector, because you're all employees, and you want to have a gigantic control over the whole thing. And now we're trying to patch things up when we're really supposed to be talking about a bill that cancels out this New Deal that makes this New Deal go away. Give yourselves another year, maybe you'll come up with something smarter. Finally, let me just say to make it interesting that you grotesquely passed the law that gave you all a reduction in your salary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was to be a new quality in Polish taxes, and it turned out to be a chaos causing the accountants headaches and nausea. It was to be well counted and give the profits of 18 million citizens - it turned out that the Minister of Finance had simply miscalculated. It was supposed to be like an American dream, but it became the nightmare of Prime Minister Moravian. What are you doing today? Instead of simply eliminating mistakes, writing good laws that will quickly meet social expectations, you are looking for a scapegoat in the government today, who will be responsible for this booze, for the chaos and mess you've caused. All members of the Law and Justice Club and all members of the government of Prime Minister Morawicki are responsible for this state. We as members of the Polish 2050 wheel said at every step that this law is so ill-written that it is simply not suitable for implementation, that even the accountants and tax advisors cannot read and interpret these regulations clearly. What's next? You continue to present the bill that creates, you can say, two realities. The Prime Minister or the Minister or any of the Ministry of Finance will be able to connect with us remotely - because it is simply a shame to admit what you have done. Mr Gontar, who spoke on behalf of the Law and Justice, once again proved by his speech that he had not read the documents on which we are proceeding, because there are no things that you spoke of. This document does not include e.g. the extension of the mid-class relief for pensioners, pensioners and contractors, there are no things announced by the Prime Minister. Okay, you can't write it, you can't write it - we're gonna do it for you, we're gonna make an amendment that will undo the rules that hit the income of the weakest people that you should just support. Because that is exactly what the Polish Load did - it hit the income of citizens who are even constitutionally indicated as those who should be supported by the state. The best example is a single parent who raises children. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 71 of the Constitution is a provision that says that families of many and lonely children should be supported by the state, Minister. And you have led to the fact that today the tax situation of independent parents is worse than full families. We will restore in the amendment - we will try to do so - the joint settlement of single parents raising children, just as we will change (the bell) the principle of settlement of rehabilitation relief, which today cannot be used by the least earner, least paid, persons with disabilities. Just like we're gonna change the rules of accounting for the income of professional seniors in retirement. It can't be that way, Minister, that the government's actions encourage professional inactivity, and that's exactly what you're doing today. This legal shit needs to be fixed urgently. The 25 days of January have passed, and you still have not given the accountants clear, clear and clear interpretations, clear and clear rules on the basis of which they could account for the first full months, not to mention the good settlement of the end of the year. Get to work and pull yourselves together, Minister, because all you do is create chaos and deprive citizens of economic certainty, and they cry as they look at the salaries they've been paid and the high bills. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u76	Thank you very much. That concludes the introduction of clubs and wheels. 13 people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? Please, Mr Owl. After that, we'll close the list. I'm setting time for the question: - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law - Polish Load also hits people with disabilities, and the regulations proposed today actually eliminate a protected rehabilitation fund in workplaces. Why are they taking it out? It was just presented - 80% This fund will be abolished in view of an increase in the tax-free amount. It's very good, but it's not good to give one hand and take the other. Of course the employer, as you say, will be able to apply for compensation for this amount, but which employer will do it? And besides, did you count - if so, I would ask you to calculate it in writing - or 4% the lowest salary per disabled person will equal the amount of the fund? Because I don't think it's real. I'd like a written reply. The second point, very important, is that you deprive your single parents of the possibility of common settlement. That's disavowing these parents' acquired rights. Is that consistent with the constitution? And that's what's gonna happen. This was to be offset by a tax-free amount, but, as it turns out, the previous speakers say, it is not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thus, in some way, they are deprived of their rights, which they already had, of acquired rights, in favour of a completely unclear, very enigmatic increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u79	Thank you, Marshal. As for this law - it is quite short - we all talked about New Deal, because such a tone was imposed on us by the ruling party, in which at this moment not a single Member sits. Tell them, somehow let them know that we said something here. I would like to say that in this amendment of the law that you are introducing, there is again a deadline, there is a time for which this law is to function, there is a pattern, as we will calculate the tax. And there's one plus that this tax actually has the potential that it will come out that it's a little lower, but again there's a time limit. You are bringing something completely new into this House. You're introducing a situation where tax cuts are up to the 30th day of one month. And then what? What are you going to do next? So I would like to ask: Why is this a time limit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u80	Mr Tomaszewski, who disappeared from the board, will appear on the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u81	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Prime Minister with the right swiss announced: we will fix Polish Loads, pensioners and pensioners have nothing to worry about, they will benefit from the relief for the middle class. And what do we have today? Today, determined people with stripes come to the parliamentary office every day and say: I, an active pensioner, have a pension and have a minimum wage - 250 PLN in the back from the other source. I have a pension, I work in a work establishment, I have a minimum wage - PLN 210 in the back. I have a family pension and a pension - 110 PLN in the back. How long will these announcements materialize in the form of a government project? Because all the time you can't just say through government television that something is going to be implemented, and you can only bring this (Bell) kind of an episodeal solution. I know that the Minister is responsible for other matters, but these things we are talking about here, social matters, are very close to this resort that you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to invite you to the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u83	The first, most important question to the Minister: What words have Poles used most often in recent times? A mess, chaos, galimatis? Which one will you choose? They're all real. It's a sign of your creativity. You are the masters of galimatias. Retired people are losing their jobs. When are you gonna change that? They're losing teachers. When are you gonna change that? Parents raising children alone. When are you gonna change that? Widows and widows. When are you gonna change that? We are used to the correct application of law or regulation in this House. You've trampled on every standard. After all, as a longtime minister, you know perfectly well that tax laws cannot be amended by regulations, and today you are making it a great honor, a great honour, that you have made such changes. That's a very bad solution. If the mess is about creativity, then you're champs of mess and galimatias. It's worth admitting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Armageddon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u84	Mr Jan Szopiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the first sentence of the justification for this project, we read that the act aims to amend the 1991 Act on personal income tax. Well, this sentence sounds a little ridiculous, because this sentence should sound like an attempt to repair the cardinal errors made by the Polish government in the development of the Polish Order. And that's a real sentence. Well, let's call something by name so that the Poles know what we do here today. We are dealing with a change of bubble, which is called Polish Load, which has led to frustration of Polish society. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! You know for yourself that this project, this bill is wrong. Have courage and vote in this bill (The Bell) introduction in 2023 of the entire Polish Łódź, which is called the Polish bubel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Remote Minister! Minister, stop calling this mess a mess. The right name for this project and for each next one, because I am convinced that there will be a whole mass of them, this is the law on the chaos introduced by the Polish Ład. How much you've brought chaos and you don't know what you've introduced, you can see just after you've been working on this project. Yesterday the project came in, and today, ladies and gentlemen, there's already a change to change, there's already an auto-correction to this project. As much as you don't know what bullshit you've adopted, you can also see in the justification of this project. I'll just quote a few phrases. So the aim of the project is to rule out interpretational doubts. After all, everyone was supposed to earn money, and now there's suddenly a question of interpretation. The introduction of certain provisions will no longer raise doubts in taxpayers, they will not have to submit, they will not be forced to do certain things. It is proposed to regulate. So what did the original project regulate, ladies and gentlemen, how is it now proposed to regulate? It is necessary to adapt the editing of standards to the language of the law - it is already cabaret. [[♪ The bell ♪]] etc., etc. The only sensible and necessary change is the suspension of this mess, the suspension of this disorder and the dedication of work to the tax system of experts. You can't do anything, and it's absolutely certain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u88	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about a government bill amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. At first I wanted to express my sympathy to you and, of course, to the Minister, because at this moment you are in this Chamber the face of the Polish tax disorder. I'd like to ask... As for the next mistake that you have made in the income tax that you are trying to correct and not harm people with disabilities or companies that employ these people with disabilities, please tell me what area, what size, what scale it will be in terms of fixing your mistake in the Tax Order. How many entrepreneurs and how many people with disabilities are involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Wcislo.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legal bubble improves with another legal bubble, as evidenced by an empty hall. No, I'm sorry, there's one Member from the ruling party who praised Poland's Load. After 20 days of order, which proved to be chaos and armageddon in all areas of life, another legal bubble is introduced to the knee. Legal bubel, which destroys entrepreneurs, which does not include people who raise children alone and, above all, slaughter Polish entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! The health contribution in the Polish Order does not take into account the cost of purchasing goods, the cost of warehouses and other components. This means that if an entrepreneur in December bought something for example for PLN 1 million and sold it in January or February for 1,200 thousand, then he will pay no income tax on the difference, on the income (the bell), but he will pay, ladies and gentlemen, a health contribution from the whole. It's sick. It's cheating people. How is an entrepreneur like that going to pay over 100,000? zł health contributions? Because he sold the stuff he bought before? Come to your senses. You slaughter Polish small and medium-sized companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a deformity of the tax system on the scale of your capabilities, the possibilities of the PiS. In short, many were to gain so little - government television praised it, and it was a success that more than 11 million households were to gain more than 10 PLN per month. He does not add that for the time being other groups are losing, and as a result of the omissions of Mr Morawiecki and Mr Glapiński many 10 zlotys will devour enormous inflation. As usual, the government has developed a new solution in the privacy of the cabinet. You don't learn from your mistakes, you don't listen to the opposition, you don't listen to the experts. Question: "Why didn't the government carry out a public consultation on this law?" You had the whole January for that, Minister. You are building another chaos for Poles and Poles. Who's gonna be responsible for this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u94	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Sibinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just had the opportunity to observe the act of conversion of Minister Sarnowski. I recall from the meetings of the finance committee arrogant speeches on our proposals not to touch and harm people with disabilities. We tabled an amendment to keep PFRON from losing money. The Minister then, very, very ugly speaking to the members of the committee, said that nothing happened, everything will be fine. We also tabled an amendment in the Senate and it was rejected. Today we read, and the Minister said that, as a result of the changes that had been made, there would be a situation in which the income tax advances would be reduced, that this would be particularly felt in the case of disabled workers (the Bell) employed on the protected labour market, that it would not be possible to assist disabled workers with the abovementioned fund. Yeah, we talked about that. Did you have to wait all these months? First you have to raise your blood pressure, then you try to fix what you've ruined. Well, it just doesn't add up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u96	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask when the PiS will finally honestly tell Poles that it charges them with a high health contribution, which they have not yet paid. [[Voice from the hall: Honesty is not their best quality.]] It is only said to increase the tax-free amount, and that is what the government and the PiS praise, but, not to mention the health contribution, they expose Poles to great disappointment, which will grow with each month. Another question: When will a proposal for the settlement of single parents be presented in the framework of the repair of the Polish bubble, which was to be a great Polish Łady? It's a scandal at all (the bell) not to take care of families raising children alone. And what about the bunk pattern for mid-class relief? When will this pattern appear in the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u98	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u99	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Life shows you can take care of your own. Your nominates are lost on New Deal, e.g. KPRM staff or managers in state budget units, not to mention companies of the State Treasury, because that's where they'll raise their wages and compensate for losses from the New Deal. And here the Prime Minister immediately responded by issuing regulations that allow to raise wages in a virtually unlimited way for those who lose on the New Deal, because among these nominees there are plenty of those who earn more than 12 800 PLN. When will you start caring for Poles and Poles (the bell), about everyone and not just yours? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u101	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! So-called. Polish Load is, of course, a social bubel. The PiS government has hit families in which parents raise their children alone, denying them the possibility of a common tax settlement. PiS has hit people with disabilities who can't count off rehabilitation relief now, but PiS has also hit those pensioners who work hard and whose government is taxing today. But what's particularly shocking is the PiS government says to families with multiple children, including 4+, today that their children can't be educated. 'Cause if they get good results and get a scholarship that's a little over $3,000. zł, this whole multi-child family, 4+, will be deprived of the opportunity to use the so-called. PIT-0. As a government, you also hit the entrepreneurs. PiS deprives Polish companies of the ability to compete effectively (the bell) on the European markets and these changes show, Minister, the great arrogance of power towards those social groups that are the weakest. Where's the concern for these groups? Minister! Will the government support the law of Poland 2050, which fixes these various errors, and we know that the government, representatives of the government, has already read it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u102	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Jan Sarnowski. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]] [[Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to strongly condemn the thesis that Polish Load is a social bubble. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 17 billion PLN, which will be in the pocket of less earning Poles. Already this month, in January, 16 million people will receive either higher salaries or higher pensions. Just pay attention to this often silent majority. Just ask yourself, for example. Social Security Department. According to the latest data from ZUS only in January up to 8150 thousand. Retirement and pensioners as a result of the Polish Order received higher benefits. This is over 95% of all recipients. And only now, in January, it appears in their accounts, because it is already January 26th, additionally about PLN 860 million in relation to payments that were made to them last year. This is real money, which would not appear in pensioner's or pensioner's wallets if it were not for tax changes of the Polish Government.]] [[I'm gonna go over the individual questions. I would like to stress once again that preference for single parents has not been lifted. In the Polish Lada it was replaced by a new tax deduction of PLN 1500. This is an additional relief next to the relief for children who still have lonely people. I would like to emphasize that this amount of relief, that is PLN 1500, is more than the average benefit achieved by single parents from the joint settlement last year with their single child, because last year this benefit was on average PLN 1154. This year it will be 1500 PLN of deduction. As a result, all single parents who earn up to about PLN 9130 a month gross, i.e. well above the national average, will benefit from the change. The Ministry of Finance, working on expanding the changes of the Polish Government, on proposals presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki last week, will go even further. First of all, there will be a regulation whereby a single parent can also recover a possible amount of unused relief at the end of the year, as is the case in the case of child relief. This 1500 PLN will not be lost to anyone, even if there is no way to deduct it from it, while single parents will also include a regulation that will ensure that they will benefit from or will not lose on the Polish Łady single persons who earn up to 12 800 PLN gross. This change will also be presented to the High House in the coming weeks.]] [[As regards the health contribution from economic activities, I would like to stress very strongly that the reform assumes that the basis for the health contribution is still income, i.e. income reduced by revenue costs. In the case of differences, this is a subject which has been notified to the Ministry of Finance only in the last weeks, and the Ministry has a provision in this area, which is already consulted with accounting organisations, accounting offices and health department, so that this problem can be addressed by legislation as soon as possible by entrepreneurs.]] [[In case of 4+ family relief, i.e. for parents who raise four or more children, I would like to emphasize that this is a change which was introduced into the tax project of the Polish Government by an amendment to the parliament and was accepted and accepted by the government in the content submitted and this submission contained a limitation concerning about PLN 3100 of the annual earnings of the child, which would lead to the fact that it would cease to include four children raised by parents to this limit.]] [[The Ministry of Finance is working to address this challenge too. We do not exclude this limit of PLN 3100 to increase, so as to secure it. The point is that no child who receives a scholarship or performs e.g. part-time work, paid during holidays, did not lead to a situation in which his parents had to pay a higher tax as a consequence.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to Minister Sarnowski's statements, there were still a few questions concerning changes in the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, but also in the context of this discussion, which we discussed, even issues concerning pensioners and pensioners, the Minister has already spoken about it, but it is worth to emphasise this once again, I think that in the case of a group of pensioners and pensioners, as has already been said here today, more than 8 million pensioners have already benefited from the Polish Łady in January, receiving higher benefits. A group of about 421 thousand. people who had a minimum loss in January - this loss will be compensated in February. The Social Insurance Institution is prepared for payment and this issue is already clarified here. One more question, as we repeat, is still the amount of 12 800, because this is the amount that is absolutely the limit amount. To this amount, no one on the Polish Lodz loses, even the opposite, people who... As in the case of pensioners, more than 8 million pensioners gain from this, i.e. Almost 95% Retirement and pensioners, that is, those voices that appear here, are absolutely untrue. It is also worth noting that if we want to give up the Polish Order, we also have to give up the amount of tax-free up to 30,000, and I think it is not the intention that good solutions should be eliminated, even the other way around, these actions which we are taking are based on the fact that people who have lower income, average income, help anyway the Polish Load is constructed. We apologized for all the mistakes that have happened. Today one of those that we are improving is the situation with the company's rehabilitation fund for people with disabilities. It was possible to use the regulation on 7 January and not to lose it, but we are also introducing this solution, which will enable entrepreneurs to benefit from the funds that we spend this year on PFRON in the amount of PLN 150 million. Next year these funds will already be from the state budget, so that the occupational rehabilitation fund for disabled persons, as well as the occupational activity fund, can fulfil its role. Here, compared to last year, this 150 million PLN should cover those receipts that have been so far. And the question was, how many people use it. This action, which we are allocating, will be aimed at around 1260 entities, including 780 sheltered workplaces, which in total employ more than 93 000. persons with disabilities, 126 professional establishments employing almost 6 000 persons in total. persons with disabilities. The others may still benefit from this, the ones that are registered and have the statutes, and have lost this statute, but have an appropriate traineeship in respect of the protected work establishment. We estimate that, together with these solutions, some 112 thousand will benefit. persons with disabilities. As I said, the funds we spend are about PLN 150 million this year from PFRON. The entrepreneur who wishes to benefit will apply to PFRON to benefit from these measures. Whether next year it will be an amount that will already be provided from the state budget. That is why we wanted this solution to be introduced. As of 1 January, these funds will also be able to be booked into an occupational rehabilitation fund for persons with disabilities or an occupational activity fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u104	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, contained in prints No. 1960 and 1960-A, to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 13. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 13 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the verification of the quorum before the votes. I invite all your fellow Members to the O.R. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. Let me remind you, we're checking the quorum. Once again, please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. 443 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and the Act amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws, print No 1964. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws, print no. 1939. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - specific arrangements to protect the customers of gaseous fuels in view of the situation on the gas market, - on the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services. These reports are 1954 and 1965 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ms Marcelina Zawisza made a formal request. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u105	Dear Marshal! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a formal request for a break in the meeting, the convening of the Seniors Convention and the completion of the agenda for the draft Left on compulsory vaccinations and COVID passports. [[Applause]] Today we have another disease record. Another record! We could have a death record in ten days. Do you want to take responsibility for these deaths? You're not doing anything! Yesterday, we got word that the Hoca Act was being processed. Where is she? We have been informed that we will receive the project that President Jarosław Kaczyński was talking about. He said he was in the Sejm, but we still haven't seen him. That's how you treat us. You were talking about cooperation, about wanting to hear us out. Great, great! You don't save lives from listening. [[Applause]] You save lives with specific laws. You have a moral duty to save our fellow citizens! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u106	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Winnicki, the opposite. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is that the Left is so consistent that she called for the closure of schools to move on to remote work a few days ago. Here you go! Now the government is pursuing your demands and is disappointed. [[Very good.]] Oh, no, half your club's criticizing. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Anti-vaccines.]] Mr. Chairman, really, think about what you're doing. There's a wave of infections all over the world, yes. Records are beaten in all countries - vaccinated, not vaccinated. [[You broke some records, too.]] Deaths are getting smaller. And what is this testimony? That it's just going into normal flu. [[Voice from the room: Proceed to the opposite conclusion.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us really restore normality in Poland. Let us really walk the way of Britain, which endures all these senseless sharpenings.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u108	Thank you, sir. Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice, a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u109	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's think about what we're talking about. In countries where most people are vaccinated, as we know, the highest incidence is now. [[Touchdown, applause]] I would like to present to you a graph that clearly illustrates this. I would like us to note that European countries are already moving away from restrictions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The restrictions have been lifted in the UK... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal. What's she saying?]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] ...tonight all restrictions will be lifted in Norway. Let's not go backwards, ladies and gentlemen. COVID needs to be treated. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Above all, the COVID needs to be treated and that's what I'm asking for. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u110	Thank you. Please, Mr Zandberg, the opposite proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u111	It's the opposite voice. Miss, don't talk nonsense. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Madam, please do not mislead the public. Vaccines are the best tool we have today to limit death to reduce deaths. [[Applause]] We need universal mandatory vaccinations to save lives. You talk so much about saving lives, you have a chance now to save thousands of lives. You have to introduce mandatory vaccinations, and you have to have the courage to do that, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u112	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this was supposed to be a formal proposal, and it wasn't supposed to be a discussion about vaccination. As a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Whose motion?]] The first formal request was for a break, which was requested by the Left Member. Yes or no? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, request a recess. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Therefore, as a formal request for interruption has been submitted, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 207 - for, 244 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the working time of drivers and certain other laws (Prints No. 1932 and 1939). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the Working Time of Drivers and some other laws, print No. 1932. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 14 January 2022 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 25 January, asks that the High Sejm accept all amendments 1 to 16 with the exception of Amendment 15. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u114	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 9. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Road Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. 4 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 21a. Amendments 2 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Five, for, against - 447, six stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Paragraph 7 2 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Three for, against 455, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 7c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Two for, against - 456, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 83 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr Kulesza, I would like to ask you to put on a mask. You're in the O.R. I'm asking you to put on a mask. 458 Members voted. No one was against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes amendments to Annex 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. No one was against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes amendments to Annex 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was against-- 457, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes to amend Annex 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 1 for, against - 456, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 10 to 13. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Driver Working Time Act. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 25. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. No one was against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 26 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. No one was against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 27 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 454, 2 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 31b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was in favor of -451, 3 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 11a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 16th amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes among others. the addition of point 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. Two for, against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the Working Time of Drivers and some other laws. With a formal proposal from Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u115	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask for a break because we come to the most important vote today, to vote on the fate of Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] This vote for rejecting the Senate amendment will be a sentence passed on Polish companies, on small and medium-sized Polish companies, which have suffered since the beginning of January by... [[Voice from the room: Through the platform.]] ...500 percent, 600 percent increase in gas prices. The Senate has proposed a solution: limiting these increases. [[Applause]] If you vote against the Senate amendment, you'll pass a sentence on Polish companies. You can't let that happen. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u116	Thank you. Because he's been reported... [[Your marshal, with the opposite voice.]] There you go, the opposite vote, I understand. Mr Kowalski. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Beat it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Dear Civic Platform! As always, you have memory problems, so I want to remind you. In January 2014... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: The first gas man.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with Mr Grabc's words, there was peace, so please let Mr Kowalski speak, okay? [[The voice from the room: But it's a lie!]] [[Some of the Members show the postcards with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] In January 2014, the European Commission sued the Republic of Poland on tariffs, inter alia. for entrepreneurs. It was during the Civil Platform in October 2015. The Republic lost the trial before the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Game in the O.R.]] Since you have failed to defend the Republic of Poland against the Court of Justice of the European Union, the business tariffs have been abolished. And only because Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin has proposed a bill that says, not these big raises, today you are scandalously defending those decisions. [[Don't talk, just vote right.]] So if you really want to help the Republic of Poland, try by Donald Tusk, the head of the European People's Party, to press on Eurocrats who block good solutions for Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] As far as Polish entrepreneurs are concerned, you have lost gas cases before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you. [[Mr. Kowalski, who's got a conviction for lying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u118	Thank you very much. As a formal request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break in the session, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 219 - for, 236 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Senate Resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in the light of the situation on the gas market (Prints No 1942 and 1954). I ask Mr Wiesław Krajewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u119	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I present a report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Senate Resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in the light of the situation on the gas market, print No 1942. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) On 21 January 2022, the Sejm adopted a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets yesterday, i.e. On January 25, she considered the Senate's resolution on this matter. Before, High Izbo, I would like to present an opinion on the individual amendments tabled by the Senate, I would like to refer to the words of the opposition and put forward a climate that accompanied the work of the committee. I am obliged to present this message to the High House. Namely, High Izbo, today the policy of the current total opposition is responsible for expensive gas... [[Voices from the room: PiS.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be a jerk.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where do you get them?]] ...the policy of the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL in the years 2007 to 2015, the politician of the then coalition and its leader characterized by submission and loyalty in relations in the European Union. It is the result of today's blackmail of Russia and the Russian gas tycoon, which is Gazprom. [[Applause]] The Government of Law and Justice led by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[Voice from the hall: Long live! Long live!]] ...thanks to this kind of act reacts immediately and helps Poles in this difficult situation today. This present law, which will eventually be passed, supports households through subsidies to energy and gas companies. The Act also takes into account and supports institutions and bodies of particular social sensitivity. The amount of this kind of support for Poles is PLN 10 billion this year. [[You ate 25 billion last year.]] The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Acts particularly expresses its thanks to the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasin for this extremely important bill, which we will vote on in a moment. [[Applause]] [[Propagandaist.]] And now, my dear High Izbo, I would like to refer to the amendments that have been tabled and followed by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in the Senate resolution. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Activities recommends that the High House reject amendments 1 to 7, on amendments 6 and 7 in total, and that amendments 8 to 31 be adopted, which should be voted on together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u120	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 13. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Act containing amendments to the Act - Energy Law. In the first amendment to Article. 62b The Senate proposes in its paragraph. Point 1 (2) shall be amended as follows: c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Whoever's Polish is against it. Russian order.]] 457 Members voted. 234-- for, 223-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 62b The Senate proposes in its paragraph. Point 1 (2) shall be amended as follows: d. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 233 - for, 227 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete Article. 62be. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 62ba The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 2 point (2) (a) b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 62ba Senat proposes that paragraph be deleted. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 232 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 62bb The Senate proposes to give a different wording to the paragraph. 1 and 2. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 62g The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments from 9 to 31. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 8 to 31 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 1 for, against - 457, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in view of the situation on the gas market. With a formal request from Paulina Hennig-Kloska, please, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Your Marshal, I asked for this proposal, but before these votes, on an extremely important document, which is the law on solving our problems with gas, energy prices, heat prices. Now I can only refer to one thing... [[But it's a formal conclusion.]] I'm about to file a formal motion. ...that the rapporteur, who had just reported here, should not mislead the public in such an insolent and curial way, [[Applause]] because to say that the European Union's climate policy [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...is responsible for... [[Voice from the room: Just like you bring it in.]] [[It's not a statement, it's a formal conclusion.]] Member, listen to me. Madame, you do not have a formal application, as you yourself have said, so... First you volunteer, and then you say... Marshal, don't censor me. I'm about to file a formal motion. You've allowed me to come to this conclusion... [[Marshal turns on the microphone]] ...after an hour, I asked for it a long time ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't lie so impudently from the Seymary. [[Touchdown, applause]] I request a recess for your marshal to bring order in this Chamber so that the rapporteurs do not lie so impertinently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u122	Thank you very much, Member. We have already voted on the request for a break. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Prints No. 1943 and 1965). I ask Mr Adam Gawada to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, print No 1943. The Marshal of the Sejm in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent on 21 January this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution at its meeting today, asks the Senate's amendments from 1 to 7 to be rejected. This is another very important action to effectively fight inflation to support Polish families, especially the least wealthy ones. [[There's no debate, just a report.]] High Izbo! Dear Izbo! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we stressed that the zero-percent rate of VAT on food, agricultural fertilisers and gas, the 5% rate of VAT on electricity and heat and the 8% rate of VAT on fuel... [[It wasn't on the committee.]] ...is our answer to the challenges facing us today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u124	Thank you very much. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. (Article 146a (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013) 1 points 5 and 146dc (1). The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 234 - for, 225 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. The 146dc Senate proposes to add point 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 225 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. The 146dc Senate proposes to add point 1b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 146dc Senate proposes to add point 1c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 232 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. The 146dc Senate proposes to add point 1d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 230 for, 225 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 146dc The Senate proposes a different wording of point 4 and the addition of point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, print No 1966. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. That's where we ended the vote. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, take five. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 07 hours 14 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector (prints 1912 and 1952). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, print No. 1912. I would like to say just a few words here about the objectives of this law, because it is extremely important, among others. from the point of view of my constituency. The first of the objectives pursued by this amendment to the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector is to extend the Act to investments related to the adaptation of the Underground Oil Warehouse and Paliw Góra in Góra in the municipality of Inowroclaw to the physical availability requirements of the intervention stocks collected in this warehouse, including mandatory stocks and agency stocks, as defined in Article. 3 (1) (a) 12 the Law of 16 February 2007 on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to state fuel safety and disturbances on the oil market. This law will create a legal framework for the implementation of government policy on strengthening the energy security of the Republic of Poland with regard to investments related to the oil sector. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading on 12 January 2022. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 25 January, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u126	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, print No. 1912. Today, we have the opportunity to experience the importance of energy security, storage capacity, including liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons. Expansion of storage capacity it is also a protection against speculation, but also the use of price niches in the market for energy products. Therefore, the proposed draft amendment of the law is of paramount importance for the competitiveness of the Polish economy. Against the background of the neighbours, Poland does not have such extensive underground storage tanks of hydrocarbons. The ideal place to store liquid fuels, oil or gas due to their properties are salt drains. Properly prepared by the lying process, they form sealed underground caverns, caves in which, without loss of performance, but also, important, safe for the environment, liquid and gaseous energy carriers can be stored in the long term. In Poland we have such geological works in Kujawy, where already there is, unfortunately, the only underground magazine of Oil and Fuel in Góra. In the procedated law, the Polish government wants to significantly increase the possibilities for rapid, interventional use of stored resources by expanding infrastructure, increasing the use of existing warehouses and building new ones. It should be stressed that the proposed regulations introduce investments which are complementary to investments already included in the law on ensuring the strategic efficiency of the logistics infrastructure for oil and fuels, determining the State's energy security. The purpose of the specialisation is therefore primarily to ensure the energy security of the State through investments aimed at: 1. the expansion or conversion of non-tank capacity for the storage of crude oil or petroleum products used as storage in the Mountain, including the infrastructure necessary for its operation, 2) construction of an opening stone salt mine in the area of the deposit of stone salt Lubień Kujawski along with the infrastructure necessary for its operation, 3) construction of an open stone salt mine in the Damasławek stone salt deposit area with the infrastructure necessary for its operation, 4) the construction of a tank-free storage of gaseous fuels in the area of the Damasławek stone salt deposit together with the infrastructure necessary for its operation, 5. the construction of a technological water pipeline, brine pipelines and other water pipelines or pipelines for the operation of an opening stone salt mine or a non-tank gas fuel storage facility in the Damasławek stone salt deposit area, 6. the construction of oil pipelines, petroleum products, brine or technological water to change routes of existing oil pipelines, petroleum products, brine or technological water or to rebuild, expand, rebuild, repair, demolition or change of use with the infrastructure necessary to operate. In view of the very broad justification attached to the bill, I will ignore technical and legal issues, paying attention to the national interest, which is to increase the storage capacity of energy carriers in various forms, liquid or gas, including in the future storage of hydrogen in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The planned investments are aimed at the development of oil storage and transport infrastructure, liquid and gas fuels and other petroleum products and are directed mainly at producers and traders operating in the Republic of Poland. I would like to point out that the draft law is not contrary to European Union law, it does not require the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, to be presented in order to obtain an opinion and consult or agree. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the law and justice continue to work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u128	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to make a statement on printing no. 1912 - a draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I would like to stress that, in understanding the need to invest in the Underground Oil and Gas Warehouse in Góra, we will support the submitted project, because, first, the proposed law is intended to allow the strengthening of the energy security of the Polish Republic in the oil sector, second, the law is based on the same investment facilitations that are in the oil sector in its original form compared to PERN or in the Act of 20 April 2021 in relation to strategic investment in energy infrastructure. A proportionality test has also been carried out for these laws. I do not intend to re-examine the project that has already been presented by the applicants in quite detail, but I would like to refer to the energy policy of your governments. You are trying to convince Poles that high energy prices have increased either by Tusk or by the prices of CO2 allowances, and that is not true, it is a myth. Why? Because energy prices in future contracts were determined by the costs of purchasing coal and CO2 emission allowances for Polish power plants. High Seym! Energy producers make record profits, even increased by revenues from so-called. the power market. In this situation, it is absurd to claim that only CO2 powers represent today the basic cost affecting the price of energy on the Polish market. In general, prices have shifted away from costs as opposed to Western European markets, where similar increases had sources in the rise in wholesale gas prices. Prime Minister Morawiecki! Mr Kowalski! ETS prices were not raised by speculators. The powers were exceeded because in many countries, due to high gas prices, energy shifted back to coal generation and needed twice as much power, because gas needed half as much power as coal. The repetition of foolishness by the Prime Minister and Mr Kowalski will not solve the consequences of gas price increases, because many companies will fall, not to mention the rise in prices of bread, fertilisers and other basic products. In Poland, space gas and energy prices kill small and medium-sized companies, and in Europe there are temporary restrictions on these prices, e.g. In France or England, and an hour ago, the ruling majority rejected the good amendments of the Senate. Finally, will someone from the government notice that these powers are not used by the European Union in order to increase energy prices for Poland, but in order to achieve energy transformation? Will anyone in the government want to understand something from what is happening on the world and European markets and get off the propaganda level of the regime's television and take seriously Polish companies and institutions? Government isn't propaganda, it's responsibility. And one more thing. Open a drawer of 50 billion zlotys of this so disliked ETS, because since 2015 you have hugged so much in the budget, and spend it to support companies, institutions and energy transformation of the country. And finally stop complaining and start this energy transformation, because if the government does not enter the energy transformation of the country, it will not only increase energy prices in Poland, but will also continue to die because of smog about 50,000. persons per year. Poles are smart and sensible citizens and do not want to die because of your incompetence or even stupidity. Mrs. Marshal! As I said at the outset, we support the draft Print Act 1912, because the opposition, where there is a need for reason and support, is generous, but we require the rulers not only to listen to our rights, but sometimes also to their recognition and implementation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u130	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that we are talking here about much needed and important investments in oil and gas storage which will increase our energy security. The importance of these investments further emphasizes the current situation in our region and the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine. In this example, we can all see how Russia uses its neighbours and most of Europe's dependence on Russian gas to implement its powerful plans. The threat of war is brutally telling us how important it is not only to diversify supplies but also to have iron stocks of strategic raw materials. This is not only known to us by the hostile actions of the Russian Federation. It is time to abandon the illusion of the end of history and the utopia of global capitalism, in which goods and raw materials can magically materialize at any time on the other side of the world. This also applies to fuels, as well as electronics, medicines or many other products we need. As Poland and Europe in all these fields must strive for greater independence and self-sufficiency. So we certainly need this infrastructure, we certainly need these warehouses. On the plus side of the bill, we should also write down that we are dealing with - one can say, in the end - with a normal government project that has gone through the whole path of public consultation, although I admit that I feel rather strange, praising the rulers for something that should be obvious, but we know very well that it is not so that very many projects are presented by the government under the cover of parliamentary projects in order to find a shortcut and skip some elements of this normal, solid legislative process. But obviously it can be done. We encourage it to be like this from now on. But it is not that there were no doubts here, because since we are on shortcut roads, it is this special act, a little by nature, also looking for shortcuts in the context of these investments, sometimes in an incomprehensible way, e.g. on the occasion of informing the residents about this investment, which is to be done by means of a published notice, and not directly to the inhabitants, which is also enshrined in the European Directive. Is it really necessary, i.e. Is it necessary to look for such poverty shortcuts instead of doing it properly, solidly, in turn, so that it does not raise any doubts, also in the context of European law? The fact that such shortcuts can end badly and fall into a hole, we already know perfectly well since Turov's time. So maybe here it would be worthwhile to give up and just normally proceed at every stage of the investment process without such a combination. I also have some general doubts. They concern the justification of this law in the context of already wider Polish energy transformation, because once again investment in gas and oil infrastructure is justified by the future use of hydrogen. I asked this at the committee meeting and I heard that for some magazines analytical work was being carried out, that perhaps they could also be used. But I can't shake the impression that this is about this hydrogen being an alibi for us to invest in gas that will stay with us forever and ever. This would be a weak solution, because we need to remember that gas is fossil fuel. In the extraction and transport of gas, large amounts of methane are extracted, which is a stronger greenhouse gas in a short period of time than carbon dioxide and, in general, the conversion of coal to gas does not solve this huge and fundamental challenge that we face, namely the fight against climate warming and climate disaster. Therefore, speaking of the necessary investments in gas infrastructure - because it is clear that this gas will accompany us for at least a moment - we need to remember that ultimately we want to base our energy mix on green technologies. At this point in time, renewable energy sources and nuclear energy are available. As far as hydrogen is concerned, it is still not a technology that would be available on a sufficient scale at this point. Of course, we need to invest in research and hope that these technologies will emerge. Without a doubt, we need these storage spaces, we need investment in infrastructure that will give us greater independence in terms of fuel. We must not forget that gas should not stay with us permanently and that ultimately we should look for fully green energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u132	Thank you, sir. I invite you to take the floor of Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present our relationship with the draft law on amending the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, print no. 1912. This is an important bill on the development of strategic infrastructure, which is necessary to ensure and strengthen the energy security of our country. Therefore, our club will support this law because it is essential in terms of the functioning of our energy. This is planned until 2029, which is for a relatively longer period. It is absolutely crucial that the Polish state has its own critical infrastructure in terms of energy, i.e. warehouses, pipelines, oil pipelines, access to ports and the possibility of diversifying access to energy carriers. It so happens that the Kujawski district near Inowroclaw is the largest, only such place where it is stored in salt mines, which is also practiced in other European countries, is quite natural. A little bit to height, and very theoretically, it's said that we're going to be putting hydrogen in there potentially in the future as well. Well, I would like to remind applicants that hydrogen - when it comes to green hydrogen, which is pure hydrogen - is produced only when the country has an excess of electricity from renewable energy sources, i.e. not from gas and not from coal only from renewable energy sources, and we in Poland currently have less than 15% electricity from renewable energy sources. Recent changes, i.e. the 2016 change, so-called. 10H, practically prevented the use of windmills on land in Poland. The last change that we corrected today at the Energy Commission meeting, i.e. We saved another 86,000. Prosumers that will be able to create photovoltaics because they already had contracts with local governments, and this has been brought... But since April this year another 2 million prosumers, who want to have photovoltaics, will be deprived of this because there is no investment in networks, in PSE and networks, supposedly do not survive this recruitment. If we look at these high energy prices, please note that the gas from the Jamal contract for 1 MWh, because that's how it counts now, not for m3, costs 100 PLN, from windmills on land 200 PLN, and the gas that we now buy at spot price thanks to the intervention of Prime Minister Sasin, costs 440 PLN. So, who's paying off? Pay attention to that. If we don't invest in windmills on land because windmills at sea cost three times that much, we won't invest in Prosumer Photovoltaics and biomass, then energy prices will kill us. And there is no point in falsifying reality and saying that it was the previous government that led to such growth, because it was not necessary to kill RES in this country and then we would have a completely different energy situation. So this is what it looks like when it comes to a wider picture. We have a question about one aspect of this project. We are not sure whether PGNiG and PKN Orlen will only have access to these tanks or other companies and whether the government will be interested in the environmental impact of these investments during the implementation of this law, as well as whether it will carry out a public consultation with residents in the territory of which these works will be carried out. Of course, our club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u134	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poland 2050 will of course support this bill. In particular, we support the aim of this project, i.e. the creation of a legal framework for elements of the energy security system in Poland. We also share the view of the need to carry out the investments mentioned in the revision efficiently, but the main aspect for which we will support this project is the aspect called energy security. We consider it extremely important. The evidence of what can happen to prices when there is not enough fuel is, at least, the situation in the gas price market today. We therefore support the acceleration of investment. On this occasion, it is worth mentioning one rather important topic. In fact, hydrogen is mentioned in this amendment only from a kind of omission, briefly, as a possible reason for the investment in Damasławek. All investments in the oil sector, in our view, should take into account the government's hydrogen strategy and the European Union's plans for this matter. In our view, the government should also prepare an analysis of the existing infrastructure in terms of its potential use for the transport and storage of hydrogen. We share the view that hydrogen is the fuel of the future. This view also appears quite often. Of course, we are in favour of improving the mode of compliance, which is defined by mining law, geological law. As a lawyer, I will not refuse to indicate our support for some kind of simplification of the mechanisms for obtaining legal titles for real estate, not because of these properties, but because of the extremely interesting legal concept of these legal titles, of course. To sum up, of course, we will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u136	Thank you, sir. We are now approaching the questions. 11 Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Recently, disturbing information has been coming to my parliamentary office from people who have submitted applications for gas connections to both single-family homes and public investments such as kindergartens. The company refuses to connect these connections, informing that investment funds have been used for the next two years in connection with the gas connection. According to the information, the most frequently changed boilers currently under the Clean Air programme - more than 44% - there's gas boilers. There is therefore, firstly, a threat to current individual and public investment, secondly, to the Clean Air programme. I ask you to answer the question of why this is happening and what is the government's recipe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u138	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is about the measures. What are the planned measures and the cost of the investment bill? Which of these investments were included in the budget for 2022? And this is the question: Will all these investments be carried out in accordance with the tender rules, or is the government once again planning a series of secret investments out of all modes? Therefore, I kindly ask for information on the cost of the investment bill and the timetable for the implementation of these investments over the years. I ask kindly, Minister, for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u140	Thank you. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing Poland's energy security, the draft law on amending the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments, specifically in the oil sector. Please inform me if security is at risk at this moment. Why are these steps being taken at the moment? How small are the reserves that need to be expanded? It's about your experience and consumption. What will be the cost of all modernisations and changes to increase these reserves when it comes to the oil sector? Will these investments end within a specific and specific time limit? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u142	Thank you. The question will be asked by Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Spec Law, which provides instruments for the rapid expansion of underground oil and fuel warehouses, together with investments in transport infrastructure, is, in my opinion, a necessary initiative. Such actions will increase energy security in Poland at a time when hybrid actions of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine and the possibility of escalation of armed conflict are a threat to Poland, which destabilises energy security in Central and Eastern Europe. Specific examples of diversionary activities in recent years are e.g. Turkish oil pipeline explosion in 2008, cyber attacks on energy infrastructure in Baltic States since 2015, hacker attacks on Ukrainian power plants since 2014. Question: "What is the estimated time for the implementation of the investment (the bell) included in this Act?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u144	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Please. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Can I enroll here again, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u145	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I'll refer to the ETS. In my opinion, it was a mistake to put the ETS on the stock exchange, because a speculative game has begun and its dimension affects prices. It doesn't matter what dimension the ETS's admission to the stock exchange was. The fact itself affects the price and it's hard to argue with that, that's the fact. I'll refer to the project. It concerns the guarantee of energy security. The construction of infrastructure ensures continuity of supply and individual energy sources for our country. This is a very good bill. It's very good that we're doing this. I welcome the full support of the High House. Minister! I have a question. How much will the storage capacity of a liquid and gas carrier increase - percentage? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u146	Thank you. I invite Mrs Anita Sowinska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u147	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all agree in this Parliament that Poland's energy security is our priority. We all agree that Poland is dependent on the supply of raw materials from abroad. We all want gas prices to be lower and we want Poland's energy independence. Then I ask you, Minister, why Poland is not developing synthetic natural gas production technology. Green gas produced from hydrogen in Poland, from excess RES, would enable us in the future to become independent of gas supply from Russia and would be a warehouse for energy produced from wind and sun. The Germans are already investing in this technology. When will Poland finally come to its senses?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u148	Thank you. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about the compatibility of the project with all EU legislation, especially with regard to the EIA Directive, which was asked yesterday by my coalition colleague, who did not receive an answer from you. Have you already found out if this project is compatible with all EU law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u150	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Farmers from Kutna, from three municipalities: Dąbrowice, Lanięta, Ostrowy, are afraid to build a mine in Lubień Kujawski. This construction may entail a significant decrease in groundwater levels. The farmers know this very well because they remember what happened to water in wells near the Kłodawa Salt Mine, they also remember what drought looks like in the Łódź voivodship, and it should be added that it is a voivodship, which most areas are extremely, extremely threatened by drought. Of course, I agree that we need to increase the availability of storage when it comes to oil and oil products, that this is a strengthening of our energy security, but farmers definitely need to be clarified. Please answer whether this investment can affect water safety issues, water retention in the Łódź Voivodeship (Dzwonek), within the Kutnowski County. If you fail to respond to the statement, please answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u152	Thank you. I invite you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law we are investigating clearly shows that the government is inconsistent in its actions. Not long ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that energy security, including fuel security, is as important to us as military security, and recent weeks have shown something completely different. Russian coal is flooding Poland more and more, eliminating cheaper and greener wind energy, selling 30% of the Lotus refinery, 417 petrol stations of this company or 100% LOTOS Terminal, which is located in my region in Czechowice-Dziedzice. And you tell Poles about energy security? Where's the logic and strategic action here? You've been in charge since 2015. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is it only now that you suddenly realized that we need to expand the Oil and Fuel Mountain Underground Warehouse? What is the reason for this delay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u154	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u155	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the investments that have been added in the amendment are due to end by 2029. The European Union's forums are discussing the departure from internal combustion engines. One of the proposed dates is 2035. Will the investments specified in the amendment be returned by then? How large will the use of this infrastructure be if the departure from internal combustion engines comes into force in line with the deadline proposed in the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the law is an important law, but I would like to ask the Minister about what is happening with Lotus, because on the one hand you are talking about family silver, about the fact that fuel investments are strategic investments, and on the other hand Law and Justice are rid of some of these strategic installations today, even in the form of a processing plant in Gdańsk or 400 fuel stations. Until recently, the Law and Justice said that it doesn't get rid of the family silver, and today you have made such a proposal through your man in Orlena and these assets you want to get rid of, you want to sell them abroad. The same applies to betting in Czechowice-Dziedzice. And a question about the Czechowice-Heir. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How badly will this privatisation that Law and Justice is now carrying out for the Czechowice-Dziedzice plant end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u158	Thank you. I invite Mr Paul Rychlik, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, many lies have been lied to by the opposition in this discussion. Law and Justice doesn't want to sell Lotus petrol stations, but they have to sell them to create a pan-European, global concern. This is an order from the European Commission, which you, ladies and gentlemen, rely on so often. [[The voice from the room: But you proposed it yourself.]] You often refer to the European Commission. It is the European Commission that orders the sale of part of Lotus' shares. [[But you guys did a merger.]] Minister! This law is very important for the Polish state for strategic reasons. We can see what's going on across the eastern border. We see what action the German Federal Government is taking - or rather not doing - the German government. Improving energy security and the development of liquid hydrocarbon transmission infrastructures are very important. Minister, the bill provides for new solutions. How many kilometers of pipelines do you want to build? How much is this gonna cost? How long is this gonna take? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u160	Thank you. As the last question to be asked, I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the larger the warehouses, the more they are filled, the greater the possibility of protecting us from the effects of speculation on the market for energy raw materials, including gas. When I was discussing gas and market problems, I asked the Minister what you were going to do with the huge monopoly we have on this market. I have a question. Why are the magazines that we're creating going to be monopolized again? Why don't you make them available to entrepreneurs who want to enter the gas import market? The condition is to have a warehouse in Poland, and such places are heavily monopolized. They are in the hands of the state and companies of the Treasury. Minister, are you going to make a difference in this regard? The point is to actually make the market available and make it possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] importing gas - this would increase our energy security - independent operators [[Applause]] from the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u162	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the last question. It is Mrs Hennig-Kloski's question. Madam, I apologize, but they're back on the fence. Madam President, you are accusing us of creating warehouses that no one will have access to... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I do not accuse. I thought it was the right direction...]] No, my fellow Member, you are accusing... I have a favor to ask. Madame, before you ask a question, try to understand the facts at least a little bit. I'm not talking about making any warehouses about fuel. This bill does not say - I answer immediately, because several people from the opposition asked about it - how long these warehouses will be built. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you read the bill... There's no mention of any new fuel stores in it. There's a cavern warehouse, which is an underground warehouse where we have 6.1 m3, oil and its products. The point of this bill is to be able to extract it as soon as possible. This law allows Orlen as the owner of IKS Solino to extract oil and oil products stored there more efficiently for many, many years. That's one thing. Second thing. On this occasion it is possible to build a gas warehouse on the Damasławek deposit. Dear Member, Gaz-System is not the owner of the gas it stores. Gaz-System is a gas operator, a gas pipeline operator, an operator of a terminal in Świnoujście. What does that mean? Member, now please focus for a moment. I am speaking to Mrs Hennig-Kloska. Just focus for a second. I'll explain it to you. If we're talking about the fact that the Gas-System is an operator, then anyone who buys the capacity has access to it. Everyone on the market will be able to access this warehouse, just like anyone who buys the capacity at their terminal. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście, has access to it. He's such an elementalist, so I'd ask for some minimum care. A very specific question has been raised by Mr Paul Rychlik. That's a specific answer. How many kilometers of pipeline? It will be two - it is the accompanying infrastructure - water pipelines with a length of 55 km each and one saline pipeline with a length of 90 km. There were also questions about what investment funds are and how these investments will be implemented. No funds from the State budget will be transferred to these investments. The market, Orlen and Gaz-System will be responsible for these investments. The question was, do we have too little fuel reserves, and that's why we want to expand them? Again, we're not expanding the warehouse into fuel, we're increasing the availability of this warehouse. This work is already underway, but the special act, the rules that we are now adopting, will enable us to carry out these tasks more efficiently. It's a basic thing. The capacity will increase by gas if the salt deposit in Damasławek is cavernically managed. It is difficult to answer many broad questions, e.g. climate policy or carbon rights. The price of carbon dioxide allowances - I say in one sentence - beat historical records before the gas started to go up. Unfortunately, this ETS system today is subject to some total speculation. Consumers throughout the European Union pay for this. We're all in favour of changing that. Poles cannot bear the cost of climate policy forced against common sense, contrary to the economic interests of EU countries, especially EU countries such as Poland, by politicians of the ruling party, the European People's Party (the bell), created also by the Sejm opposition in Poland in the European arena or by politicians of the Left in the European Parliament. As far as compliance with EU law is concerned, there was a reply at the committee meeting that we do not notice that this project is incompatible with EU legislation, it simply complies with the environmental rules required for investment in Poland. The investor's representatives, PKN Orlen, spoke exhaustingly on this subject. Already in view of the time that has passed, the bell that has just resounded, as Members wish, we will present it in writing. But there are environmental decisions. Regional Environment Director in Bydgoszcz presented environmental conditions for the Salt Mine Lubień valid until May 2024. The investment is local and will not affect the environment on a cross-border basis, and there have been allegations. It was a comparison with Turov. The planned mining activity based on mine openings will be carried out on 43 sites located in the village area: Temple Nowe, Temple Village, Nowa Village, Wola Olszów-Parcele and Wola Olszow in the area of Lubia Kujawski. This is where PKN Orlen owns it. The company has legal titles up to 59 plots located in the area of these towns with a total area of almost 100 hectares. I have already answered Mr Paul Rychlik's questions about pipelines. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] Minister, perhaps in fact, as you suggested, in writing, we would be happy. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Okay, thank you. One last thing. These actions, these investments, as well as rapid actions on the gas market, are an example of the fact that the Government of Law and Justice is very effective in caring for the energy security of Poland. This law improves the energy security of Poland. This law works for the energy security of Poland, works for faster, more accessible Polish fuel warehouses, increased gas storage capacity. Therefore, I ask the High House to support this bill, which is very positive in terms of energy security in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u164	Thank you very much for this positive project for our country. And right now, please... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, I still have a corrigendum.]] But I know all that, Mrs Marshal. Witek told me. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Good.]] Mrs Hennig-Kloska, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You, as usual... If you're gonna grab my words, quote me, not paraphrase me, changing the meaning of my speech. I wasn't talking about building warehouses, raising surfaces. I know this bill. As usual, many comments can be made to the entire legislative process, but yes, this law is needed and we will be in line with it. But the question is, what are you going to do next? Because we need much more and much more investment in this area, both in terms of transmission and storage of energy raw materials. And the fact that you monopolised this market, bringing together all the decisions and investments in the state's hands, is a fact, is true. So the question is, are you going to do whatever you want to do with the liberalisation of this market as well as with regard to the storage of energy raw materials, making it available to private companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] An example of the gas we're struggling with today. Thank you very much for this correction. PGNiG was 97% the surface, so he didn't have the opportunity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u166	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You already said that. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter usury (print No 1911). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill. And thank you very much for your presence, Minister. The Minister has taken care of his affairs, so we'll thank him in a different way. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! The loan sharks are worse than thieves - these words of Katon from ancient times very well reflect the problem of the pathology of loan loans. Thousands of Poles exposed to this type of practice were victims, especially when they were in a forced position. They were older people, people unaware of the fact that they would have to pay thousands of out-of-interest costs, which many of them led to ruins, the loss of a roof over their heads. An example of the scale of this pathology is several ongoing proceedings, which are already at the stage: after the indictment. I would like to remind you that Minister General Zbigniew Ziobro requested the files of all such cases dropped in 2016. Previously, three or four cases were brought to court every year. The state tolerated the looting of defenseless, innocent loan shark victims. There are a number of proceedings pending at the moment. In one of them, where the scale of losses is the highest, there is a question of PLN 26 million to the detriment of the victims. It's a lot of property in the form of real estate. There's nearly 2,000 under the eyes of the prosecutors. notarial acts. They're checking to see if there's been any abuse. In addition, I would like to point out that we have already prepared a number of changes to the regulation of this situation in the COVID shield. We introduced a crime of usury, previously deleted by the Civic Platform and PSL in 2011 - I will remind you of the article. 18a Act on Consumer Credit, which in strange circumstances evaporated from Anti-Liquiary Law, as well as Article. 7a of the Consumer Credit Act, which then provided for the maximum amount of non-interest expenses. These gifts for loan sharks from the Platform caused all kinds of loan companies from all over the world to fly here, preying on the helpless and forced position of Poles, leading to the ruin of many people. The responsibility for usury rests with the Civic Platform and the PSL, and that must be said more clearly today. In 2015, trying to reverse this negative state of affairs, they prepared a bill, yes, they even introduced it. On the other hand, it turned out to be a legal issue. They have introduced, yes, a limit on non-interest expenses - perhaps in a moment the Member will talk about it - while at 25 and 30, depending on whether it is long-term loans or short-term loans, so-called. moments. But it was celebrated in many ways, examples could be multiplied. People were still losing their homes, their apartments, their real estate. There were still thousands of out-of-interest costs despite that limit. I can give you a number of examples that we have. This bill we've prepared comprehensively solves the problem of usury. We propose both civil, administrative and criminal solutions. We introduce a clear 10% off-interest cost limit for long-term loans and 10% for short-term loans, so-called. moments, an additional 25% for loan contracts concluded between a natural person and an entrepreneur, and a natural person, in the law - Penal Code, Civil Code. In addition, we introduce at the level of the Penal Code a clear definition of what weed is. The total cost of the benefit will now cover all margins, commissions, additional fees, insurance. For loan sharks, it will be impossible to escape into some extra fees, a fine print written somewhere under a contract, so that a person who doesn't know what he's signing loses his life's fortune. Earlier, in the COVID shield, we imposed a ban on expropriation. However, these limits expired on 30 June this year, I will remind you, they were 15/6. Therefore, at the moment, we want to introduce a clear cap on extra-interest costs of 10/10 for loans between a natural person and an entrepreneur and 25% between individuals on the basis of the Civil Code. Moreover, for the first time in history, we are introducing supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission. For the first time in history, there will be a regulator that will verify the accuracy of the lending activity. These types of companies will not be able to start any, from now on loan companies will not be impunity-free. The Financial Supervision Commission will look at their hands (the bell), with the possibility of imposing penalties up to PLN 15 million. In addition, we require notaries to verify the debtor's submission to execution in a notarial act. The courts will also check when issuing the Feasibility Clause whether the legal relationship which gave rise to the Feasibility Clause is not a case of usury. Comprehensive civil, criminal and administrative solutions will make the Poles have loans cheaper and safe. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u168	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Mark Ast of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending certain laws in order to counter usury contained in print No. 1911. The aim of the bill is to solve the gross social problem of usury. A problem which, unfortunately, has not been solved throughout the entire period of the Third Republic. There have been attempts, as it turns out, to be ineffective. However, we are still dealing - as the Minister said - with feeding on human poverty, human misery, ignorance and ignorance of the law, but above all on the forced property situation of families, elderly people, disabled people or infirm people. As for this, we probably all agree that the state's response to such pathologies must be, and that is the solution for government submission. It is worth recalling that, in fact, the first significant sample was the 2001 law which regulated the principles of consumer credit, limiting interest and the costs of lending. At the same time, it imposed a penalty for not maintaining these limits, not complying with the provisions of this law, but it was abolished by the next Consumer Credit Act of 2011. There, under the pretense of implementing EU legislation, sanctions were given up, and those solutions which were a guarantee that weed would not be applied so massively on such a massive scale. Therefore, since the problem arose, as I said, there must be a reaction of the Polish state, the Polish government. The government's submission implies changes in the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, as well as in the Banking Law and the Consumer Credit Act, and, of course, in the Criminal Code. The Civil Code, which is very important, introduces additional articles - from Article. 720.1 to 720.5 and articles. 7241. The group of these provisions strengthens the position of the natural person who is a party to the loan agreement. At the same time, a precise formula is introduced to determine precisely the maximum amount of the non-interest-bearing costs of the loan. The Minister spoke of it, too. These total costs must not exceed 20% on the assumption that they are being submitted by the government. Of course, additional guarantees are introduced in the code, and in the civil procedure, and in the Banking Law, and in the Consumer Credit Act. However, there is also a very important change, i.e. the introduction of an article. 115 § 25 in the Penal Code, where a legal definition of costs other than interest is introduced. This should also make it easier to prosecute the offences of usury so that it is actually effective and gives the opportunity to prevent and prevent these crimes. In this situation, considering that the law is necessary, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that this project (the Bell) be directed to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u170	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The loan shark is worse than the thief, indeed, but Minister, the crooks do not give way to the thieves in anything, and the whole reason for this bill, which you presented to the High House, is one big fraud. And if you want to know what the Civic Platform did about the loan shark, listen to me. In 2011, we implemented the Consumer Credit Act because we have and were aware that the financial market is changing, that the economic situation, new technologies and social processes of the consumer credit market are changing. This is why, in 2015, on the initiative of the Civic Platform and my personal initiative, we introduced fundamental changes, changes that regulated the activities of loan companies, established the legal form of the lenders, established the conditions for its operation, ensured that such persons must have their capital, that they cannot be punished. We have also ensured a reduction in the cost of interest and we have imposed sanctions for non-compliance with these rules, only the prosecution of Zbigniew Ziobra is unable to enforce this. Both of these major laws were preceded by consultations and analyses, while it is impossible to say about the project of Minister Warchoł. Minister Warchoł! When you leave the house and want to check your temperature, are you looking at the thermometer outside the window or are you looking at the notebook five years ago and reading the temperature on that day? I think you're looking at the thermometer outside the window. But what did Minister Warchoł do in this bill? It presented a picture of the loan market from 2013 to 2016. Isn't there any more recent information? They are, but they don't match Minister Warchoł's thesis that he's the only one who fights the loan shark. What I said now, that there are no actual and true data in the explanatory memorandum, is just one example of the incompetence of the authors of the project. I think that this project was written by cardinals who have an idea about the financial market and the consumer credit market, to put it mildly, palely, and seem to have only been guided by the prejudices of Minister Warchoł himself. Do you, Minister, even know what a consumer credit is? Because I think that's a fundamental question. In fact, in the first example of the justification of the Minister, the author of this project justifies that he does not know what consumer credit is at all. Listen to you: The need for further legislative changes to fight against usury is demonstrated by the inclusion of an emergency prosecutor general's complaint in the final order for payment in court proceedings, in the order of order of the Wałbrzych District Court - less that the judgment is from 2009 and it is 2022. Listen further: The commitment was based on an agreement concluded between the defendant carrying out an economic activity and the complainant company. The defendant purchased cosmetic cabinet equipment from the website. The defendant was given a VAT invoice whose due date expired on 14 February - and so on. VAT invoice. Mr President, Minister, do you know what a VAT invoice is? Have you seen banks, cooperative banks, loan companies issue VAT invoices? Are you trying to tell the High House that the lady who equipped her beauty parlour was a consumer? There's a lot of bullshit, such lies and manipulations in the explanatory memorandum. I marked them with colors. If I removed lies, manipulations, and misrepresentations, there would be a few pages left on 81 pages of justification. We are dealing with a project about which Minister Warchoł speaks openly in his explanatory statement: his aim is to liquidate a legally functioning loan market. And now I'm asking you whose business this is in. Whose interests are represented in this Chamber by Minister Warchoł, because certainly not by consumers. Consumers from the regulated loan market are pushing this bill into the gray area. You don't realize that not everyone makes $20,000 like you do. Evil and that man sometimes has to buy a refrigerator on installments. He doesn't have credit, and the only chance he's got is loan companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You push these people into the gray zone, and in the gray zone, Minister, if you don't pay off your loan, you can get hit in the stomach with a knife. I don't know if the point of PiS is to push consumers for whom this market is necessary into the grey zone? Or would you like to reserve the rest of the market for the SKOKs? Then please make it clear from this speaker, not hide yourself from any interest of consumers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u172	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one question: why is it so late? Why over the years have governments allowed us to develop loan-making institutions that exploit and deceiving Polish citizens? Why were people allowed to lose their homes, their livelihoods and, sometimes, their lives because we know very well that people in debt spirals were dragging themselves into their lives? Regulation in this industry is necessary and the reduction of these practices should prevail over the defence of parabanking and usury institutions. They've really made their living. In the course of the work on this law, several posts were submitted and it was the case that representatives of the industry took the floor first of all. But it is worth listening to the voice of the defrauded and abused, because even in the course of legislative work they are worse off than organised lobbying groups. For example, the voice of Mr. and Mrs. L., who borrowed 6,000 in the parachute. PLN at zero percent, but commission and other charges made the APRC of this agreement more than 100%. And when they were unable to repay the loan, the case went to court, and he was right to grant the creditor and ordered the repayment of the debt, not taking into account that the borrowers were in a weaker position than the creditors who were engaged in professional loans. The Ombudsman brought an emergency action against this case before the Supreme Court. But let's ask ourselves: How many things do borrowers have left alone with their tragedy? And this is a task that should first of all stand before us, and it is more important, frankly, than the justification of this law, because what is in it is more important. As we move on to what should be added to this bill, it lacks the question of pawnshop activity, Minister. If she is adopted as she is, there is a risk that pawn shops will take over parabank clients and exploit people in the crisis will not end at all. So I call on us to complete this gap while we are working on this bill. The question is, however, whether it is not worth supplementing the separation laws, from which level of credit is required to present documentation from the employer, and when only a statement is sufficient. This is justified because it is necessary to distinguish between consumer credit for 1000 PLN and this loan for tens of thousands of PLN. The Left Club wants further work on this bill. We believe that regulations on the operation of parabanks and usury companies are essential. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u174	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I will give you the right thing to do about the direction of this regulation. The scale, the number of Poles victims due to unfair loans made available by various kinds of shady companies actually tells us to do something about it. It is also reasonable to ask why it took so long to prepare this law. You have been in charge for six years, and many times before the elections I have heard announcements about this issue, but, as they say, it is better late than never. Today it is appropriate to lean firmly on this project. Many criticisms were made by the previous speakers. I will not repeat this, Minister, and I will draw attention to two aspects. It would be good, Minister, first of all, not to fire a child with a bath, i.e. to eliminate entities that operate as usurpers, in fact not to cut off Poles from loans, in which - what happened today from the mouth of one of the previous speakers or one of the previous speakers - are offered money for purchases to those who will not obtain any other loans. We know this well from life, it is a fact and it is worth taking the path for these people to completely not wipe out from the market all those who offer small loans. The second thing I would have called for from this place today, Minister, is so-called. late payment free of charge. It is about purchasing platforms, which are very popular today, especially in times where we have recently lived, times of pandemics. It's quite common to shop online. Very popular began to enjoy just these purchases with free deferred payment. And it would be good in these regulations - in the interest of those who just liked it, and many Poles liked it, buying things online today, sometimes those that still need to be secured by other means - to respect that. This is what I would like to signal on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, PSL, while declaring that we are, of course, ready to work on this project. We're not gonna totally condemn him. On the other hand, we are also looking for an open, substantive discussion, with the opportunity to take into account the arguments which I believe I have expressed and which also deserve respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u176	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Yes, the state has a duty, not a right, but an obligation to support citizens who are in an uneven fight, falling into debt spirals, with smart guys on the market who pretend to be, impersonating bankers or real, really working loan companies. The market probably also needs to be changed. The market needs to be changed, but there seems to be a great deal of work to be done even in terms of compliance with current legislation. Because today even those rules that apply are very often not respected and abused, and the various lenders simply they care whether it is in terms of the calculation of the risk and creditworthiness of citizens, whether it is in terms of the maximum interest rate on loans, which is indicated in the Act, which has already been introduced into Polish law, and which you are simply reducing. I'm sure we're running out of data today to make a substantive assessment of the matter that's been submitted. It's true. The law and justification are based on completely outdated data. I am completely unable to say whether what you are proposing has any reference to the current market realities of even honest lending companies. I have the impression that an increase of up to 10% as far as costs are concerned, regardless of the duration of the credit agreement, is too far-reaching a proposal and can lead to this, Minister, which has been warned here by other Members and other Members, namely to pour out a child with a bath and to push citizens into the hands of not only pawns, but also, and perhaps above all, of illegal usury, which operates in the gray sphere. There, a man who doesn't pay his debts will simply be in danger of his life because there are bad guys who no longer comply with any laws. We can't make that happen. Lending companies are undoubtedly fulfilling their role, but should be subject to supervision, should have a highly regulated market and then the State should require that the law on this market be respected. Nor do I fully understand why you ban external financing of financial institutions' activities in the capital market. After all, bonds alongside own funds for loan companies are a simple, natural source of funding. Even after the dump of GetBack, you didn't include such a ban on debt collection companies, and today you want such a ban to include loan companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just killing this market, Minister. If that's the point, say you want to be a government. It's closed. Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. I just wanted to ask you about the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development in this case, if it is known. Because today, the project, which has been repeatedly negatively assessed by these ministries, has a government note, which, to be honest, surprised me very much. The question about the position of the UOKiK, I think, is extremely important. Why is there no regulation on pawn shop activity? The UOKiK draws attention to this in its opinion, which is very right. It's also very disturbing... Thank you very much, Member. ...because we really don't want citizens from loan companies to go to pawnshops and, as I said, to illegal usury. Thank you very much. So much for me at the beginning of this project. We will work on this in committee, but we really need a lot of change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, I invite you, Mr Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy. Yes, sir, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u179	That's right. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy towards the government bill amending certain laws to counter usury. This is printing number 1911. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, it is necessary to emphasise the fact that weed is a pathological phenomenon and must be combated by all possible means, because it has many negative effects, which countering is our duty as parliamentarians. Due to the limited time, I will not now refer to the individual solutions contained in the project, some of which deserve support and should have been introduced long ago. However, many issues need to be discussed, improved and supplemented, which I believe the Minister is aware of here, because in the media he declares his openness to debate and change. For this reason, I would like to call for a fair and substantive consultation at the stage of the committee's work, which unfortunately lacked this consultation at the stage of government work, which could give us a lot of valuable data on regulated matter. It is important to know that the project, despite the strong sounding title, regulates much wider matter than just usury. Following the notification of this proposal to the European Commission, we have 2 months to discuss the matter calmly. Therefore, I would like to propose that the project be addressed to the finance committee on account of this matter, hoping for an honest, in-depth debate. To conclude, I thank the Minister and the Ministry as a whole that they have dealt with this really appalling topic, because not only do I have, I suspect that all Members have in their offices a lot of people injured, so hideously injured and used by some dishonest entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Wealth must be fought, it is obvious, and in this respect the Circle of Poselskie Polish Cases, regardless of whether it is a government proposal or from the opposition, supports actions aimed at eliminating this pathology. However, when analysing the content of the printing, it can be concluded that only a few provisions are measured in loan sharks, for example. from gaps in civil law. To the rest, the project mainly concerns the revision of consumer credit rules, which are the implementation of the EU directive. And this is where I wanted to draw attention to two points. Firstly, on the first page of the printing it is stated that the project has been notified to the European Commission. This means that by the end of March we should refrain from making decisions in this regard. What if the European Commission considers that the proposed legislation is incompatible with EU law? Will we then refrain from amending even civil law? Secondly, the projector seems to ignore the fact that the European Parliament is currently working on a new consumer credit directive, with which the proposal is, to put it mildly, missing. Perhaps it would be better if, in the course of the committee's work, we carried out a comprehensive analysis and developed a law that would be good for consumers and compatible with EU law. I think it's possible, and that's what I call for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. We've got 18 people reporting. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting the speaking time for one minute. I invite you very cordially... [[Mr. Marshal, we've got an acceleration, maybe 1.5 minutes.]] You know I'm an open man, so we'll be fine. Once we've set it for 1 minute, and you're gonna say 1 minute and 2 seconds, I'm sure I won't stop you. [[I'm very happy with this comment.]] There you go. [[I'll speak less, Marshal.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the fight against unfair financial market practices is extremely important and there is nothing to talk about. The question, however, is whether the methods chosen are always the right ones and come to those problems that are really important from the point of view of consumers' interests. I would like to ask in this context about the possibility of financing activities by means of bonds. As far as I understand it, the project is aimed at preventing the financing of the company's activities through the acquisition of capital in the form of bonds, the sale of bonds. For what reason? And if there are real plans, isn't that the way to increase the cost of capital, and therefore (The Bell), the more difficult it is for consumers to obtain such support? Thank you very much. It was supposed to be shorter. It's usually a minute and a half, so I cut it by a few seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u184	You're a really wonderful envoy. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. It'll be shorter here. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in, ma'am. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. There it is. [[I'm here. I'm checking in.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As the subject of usury was the subject of my attention and actions in my earlier term, I was interested in this project. The phenomenon of usury has actually been with us for centuries. And here we can ask why the authors of the amendment of the law did not benefit from patterns of combating this activity, such as those of our Slovak neighbours who introduced a number of mechanisms that hinder usury activities. You are proposing a solution consisting in the control of the Financial Supervision Commission and a possible ban on lending companies. But shouldn't we consider licensing such activities by the Financial Supervision Commission or the National Bank of Poland? The provisions introduced in Slovakia led to the withdrawal from the market of around 80% those types of entities that probably did not believe that they would meet the conditions of the legal bell. Lending activities with current communication opportunities should be subject to extraordinary supervision, such as: banking supervision. This control should contribute to ensuring that fair, legitimate and consumer interests are functioning on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't, because if Ionsky's not here, then Honestly's gone, they're probably controlling something. Mrs Barbara Dolniak. Five people weren't there, so just go crazy on this speaker - within the limits of reason, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u187	Mr. Marshal, I'm not going crazy, but I'm sure I'll be referring to this project. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fighting with usury? Yes. But on the basis of well-written recipes. And this is another project that is underdeveloped, has imprecise regulations and little of that - without a complete analysis. We do not know what economic consequences this draft law can have after it has been passed. Isn't it dangerous, for example? the security of micro, small or medium-sized enterprises. You have definitions of certain legal phrases in this proposal and you forget that they can already have regulations in other regulations, where they can be resolved differently. The bill goes into a legal system, and the state completely, creating its projects, you do it in isolation. I'm skipping the lines that... In fact, it should be pointed out (the bell) that you are creating criminal records which are contrary to the constitutional principle of accurate, complete and sufficient determination of a criminal offence. Costs other than interest. How do you define them? Other costs of this kind? In particular? And the question of limited liability companies? Do you have any doubt about them when it comes to lending? Do you think that businesses in this form do not provide a guarantee of proper conduct of business? Create projects that, first of all, have well written regulations, second, an in-depth analysis, and then we will support such projects without a problem and without a doubt. But that's another example, where fast, just like that. Quickly and simply by the law, that's the worst solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u188	It was fast, and it wasn't just like that. Thank you very much, Member. [[Thank you very much.]] Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Talking about usury as a huge threat is only part of the truth. I wonder why the Ministry of Justice is not taking any action to counter another very dangerous phenomenon. I have a specific case here. It is a question of extortion from the bank into the bank's client account by third parties of loans and loans. If the bank's client is getting a call from someone in the bank's bank number and extracting additional information that is necessary to make a loan offer, then what is it? That's a crime, isn't it? And unfortunately, it is very (Bingle) easy. This person - I have a concrete example here - responded to a call from a bank and it happened that a third person obtained her data and borrowed a loan of 20,000 from a given bank. Can it be allowed to give such high loans on the phone? Such extortion occurs more and more often. These are thousands of people the police or the D.A.'s office aren't protecting, and when the police help comes, the D.A.'s office comes, years go by. And the bank loan has to be paid because the bank doesn't respond. He doesn't want to hold off on the loan, nor does he want to take any other action. He thinks it's none of his business. Should it be like this? With this loan shark, I think that's an even bigger problem. Thank you. [[Applause]] Excuse me, Marshal. I had to comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u190	You're welcome. We've taken time from Ionian and Honestly, so we can handle it. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, a project was created to counteract usury in a meaningful way, only of course the way of proceding is as it is. This proposal needs to be clarified in committee. Although the 2016 Act limited exploitation, it has not solved the problem, even though it has been almost 6 years since it was adopted. Change is needed to save thousands of citizens from falling into the debt mechanism, but it needs to be done well, with particular care. What do you have to say to people who used such loans, often had no choice but to realize how much they would actually cost? The second point is the problem raised e.g. by the Polish Association of Institutions (Book) Loan, which expresses its doubts as to whether the law will not contribute to the growth of the grey financial zone. How does the government intend to deal with such threats after the introduction of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u193	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We remember how in the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL in Poland weed was crazy. Mrs Leszczyna says that loan sharks are worse than thieves. Right, but, Member, who invited usury to Poland? Yes, Mr. Donald Tusk. And now it's concrete. Contacts. In 2011, the Council The PO removed two laws from the Anti-Liquiary Act. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 7a The 2001 Consumer Credit Act provided that the total amount of fees may not exceed 5%. Did you remove it? You removed it. Penalty provision, that's art. 18a, which provided for imprisonment for up to 2 years. So you removed the rule that protected the upper limit, and threatened the prison, so these are purely actions conducive to loan-lending mobs in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've met a lot of people in my parliamentary work who've lost all their property because of usury. These solutions are so good that in the Civil Code and the Penal Code there will be a definition of extra-penetration costs that will prevent borrowers from imposing additional margins, commissions and loan charges on them, because these hidden costs were very often up to several hundred percent. Minister! I have a question for you. Thanking you for this project at the same time, I would like to ask whether this regulation will increase consumer protection against unjustified costs and whether this financial smartness will end in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bravo, Minister, for this important bill, the bill prepared by Minister Zbigniew Ziobra and Minister Marcin Warchoł. It is about eliminating this great pathology, the usury which hit tens of thousands of Poles, especially those who are in a very difficult situation, in pensioners. Remember, retired people really need money a lot. It is not as Mr Civic Platform said today. There is indeed one pensioner who in 1825 will have a pension of almost 21 thousand. zł. He is, of course, Donald Tusk. And the Civic Platform is today the only formation that actually criticises this project. Thank you Left, thank you PSL, thank you to the entire Polish Sejm for supporting this very important project. The Civic Platform in my opinion should simply be called a party of Polish usury for what you did in 2011. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Leszczyno! You just opened a market for loan sharks in the days of Donald Tusk in 2015. For this big legal bullshit, you'd just be ashamed. And today, unfortunately, Mrs Leszczyna tells you, like those lobbyists of loan and loan companies. There's no permission to do that. We will eliminate the usury in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u196	Thank you very much. [[May I be corrected, Mr. Marshal?]] Member, what do you want to do? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have to correct, because it turns out that not only Minister Warchoł doesn't know what he's talking about. Neither does Janusz Kowalski know what he is talking about. This bill isn't really about usury at all. This bill has one purpose. This bill wants to close down the regulated market for loan companies. If you consider it necessary to introduce additional regulations, the Civic Coalition is in favour. But you can't introduce a bandit law and at the same time cast a calumny here and speak false, because it's really prolichviary. If you eliminate the loan market, the regulated loan market... We are the ones who have determined the amount of the non-penetration costs, Mr Kowalski. Please read the 2015 Act that I conducted in this Seym. [[Legal shit, legal shit.]] You have all voted in favour, I think one Member has abstained. Is that what your friends voted for? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about it and ask Mr Jarosław Kaczyński how he voted in favour of this bill. What this law does, on the other hand, is to liquidate regulated companies and push people into usury. It's a law that's prolichviary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. It was in corrigendum mode. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs. Mr President, I would like to invite you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Print No 1911 proposes banning the issue of bonds by credit institutions, but the justification for the project lacks arguments for this proposal. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the question of how many cases in which loan institutions have not purchased their bonds in the last five years, let's say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u200	Thank you. Before you count these cases, Mr Pavliczak from the parliamentary club of the Left will speak. You're welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u201	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is obvious that it is necessary to protect especially the weakest ones who become victims of loan sharks. But at the same time, it is wrong to identify criminal behaviour with activities legally functioning and regulated by credit institutions, because these institutions operate on the basis of the same consumer credit law for all entrepreneurs. My question is this. If, as a result of certain restrictions on the activities of credit institutions, this activity ceases to be profitable, it is likely that representatives of the criminal world who make illegal loans available will take their place. How, then, are you going to counter this? What specific tools will you put in place to protect consumers to protect society from commitments? I'm sure you can't protect yourself from people not taking out consumer loans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether the government has considered creating alternative opportunities for desperate people in need of minimum loans for drugs, for the fight against pain or for the preservation of their homes. What is a new reality for a person sentenced to a loan that is not creditworthy and will not receive it on the banking market if the government rightly, in good faith and out of care for the consumer, takes away their only often opportunity? Will the government give those people who need minimum loans, I repeat, drugs, pain fights, or the preservation of an apartment, an alternative? Minister! Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking today about a bill against usury. I would ask for written information on how many cases of these unethical, multi-percent loans to Poles and Poles were detected by the Ministry in 2021. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u206	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł. Speak up, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law is supposed to protect the weakest, not allow them to be robbed. He's supposed to take care of those who are in a difficult situation, in a compulsive situation... [[Okay.]] ...those who are often forced to borrow several hundred zloty loans to survive by the end of the month, and sometimes lose their lives because of it. I've given examples. 26 million zlotys stolen by usury mobs, only in Pomerania. Thousands of people who've lost their roof over their heads by expropriation to security. It's calling for vengeance to heaven. This law must absolutely put an end to preying on human harm, putting an end to unrighteousness, wickedness, greed and greed of loan companies. This is our job as Members. People chose us to protect them, not to repeat, like Mrs Leszczyn, the arguments of lobbyists and loan companies. They say the market will collapse. Has the market collapsed in Slovakia, Hungary, Great Britain, Ireland, Germany or France? In all these countries, ladies and gentlemen, they've ended up with a free American. There is no more wilderness at this moment, where these companies scooter with impunity as in Poland. That's what this bill is for, that's what the Financial Supervision Commission is for, to describe precisely the limit of non-penetration costs, so that you can't resort to various kinds of legal loopholes. No more hustling, no more dictatorship of small print. Ladies and gentlemen! I answer the question of what happened in 2015, because this question has been repeated several times here. The law which I mentioned and which you spoke about was a legal issue. In this law accepted extra-interest costs - 25% and 30% for consumer credit, respectively, as regards long-term loans and so-called loans. The moments - they didn't work at all. These costs were dealt with in many ways. You don't have to look far for examples. On 18 February 2016, i.e. already on the basis of your law, a loan of 30 thousand was granted before the notary. £6 for six months. It was secured by twice the value of the property, i.e. 60,000. zł. The total sum was to be PLN 41 896. [[It was a violation of the law prosecuted by the D.A.'s office.]] That's the effect of your bill. Next case. Ladies and gentlemen, July 2016 Your bill was already in force. A loan of PLN 1750 and extra-interest costs twice as high, PLN 1740. Bill in blanco, 30 months. Of course, the court didn't find any problem because your law allowed it to happen. [[And the Penal Code still exists?]] You allowed the looting of helpless men in a difficult situation of life. We're done here. Like I said, you were also threatening the bailiff's bill. That's what you said, the bailiffs are gonna fall. And what happened? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! Today there is no taking from debtors the products, taking from farmers tractors or other necessary things to function. Of the 1500 bailiffs, ladies and gentlemen, it's made 2,000. Our bill, which we introduced a few years ago, led to the regulation of the market for bailiffs, and so our anti-Liquid law will put an end to abuse, conning, smartening and help protect the poor, defenseless people. Further questions, which were repeated, my dear country, were related to bonds. If loan companies want to risk and invest money, let them do it with their money, not with other people's. I mean, bonds are nothing but debt papers, so it's like they're taking someone else's money into a deposit. I repeat, if they want to risk it, let them risk their money. Besides, this is a project that has been proposed in this respect by the Financial Supervision Authority. The requirements we introduce concern appropriate capital regulations for the organisation of loan companies. We're gonna have to figure out where the property came from. We're putting an end to the gray area. You can't launder money through a loan. The members of the management board of the loan companies will have to demonstrate an appropriate certificate of non-punishment. [[It's already here.]] [[But they can now.]] The members of the supervisory boards will also have to meet the relevant requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! The Financial Supervision Commission will impose penalties for such illegal practices up to 150 000, respectively. PLN 15 million. As for the other questions, Mrs Czernow, this is fraud. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just a scam, a crime. Report it to the D.A.'s office. I'm sure the case you mentioned will be thoroughly investigated. Thank you all for a fair, good discussion, and I hope so too during the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[And the rest of the questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u208	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to counter usury to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws (prints No 1947 and 1966). Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for Mrs Leszczyna. Look, you guys are in the way. [[Excuse us.]] [[We're leaving now and we're not interrupting.]] You're welcome, but if you'd stop interrupting, I'd be even more grateful and I wouldn't say you're welcome. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, print No 1947. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading on 24 January 2022. The first reading of the project was carried out by the committee today. I would like to stress that this bill was the result of the discussion that took place at the time of the proceedings in the Sejm on the draft law of 29 October 2021 on renewable energy sources, which entered into force on 1 April this year. And here there were problems of local authorities related to started umbrella and grant projects concerning installation or purchase of photovoltaic micro-installations. This also applies to prosumers. It turned out that a total of tens of thousands of people may not be covered by these rules and that local governments may lose considerable resources because they have taken initiatives to organise these projects. Therefore, during the examination of that draft law, an undertaking was made that efforts would be made to ensure that this law would be adapted to include micro-installations which are financed and financed by local government units or other eligible entities and that they would be covered by the old system of drains. This is why the proposal, which was discussed at today's committee meeting, provides for such solutions. These solutions have been designed in such a way that they give the opportunity to complete all umbrella and grant projects. Therefore, there will be an additional installation of more than 94 thousand. photovoltaic installations. This will mean that Poland in the field of renewable energy will not only fulfil its obligations, but even this performance will exceed the tasks carried out by 2023. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, High Sejm, I would like the High Sejm to adopt the draft law annexed to the printing report 1966. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u210	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u211	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws, Seym Printing No 1947 and 1966. The draft law introduced by Members of the Parliamentary Club is the result of a concern for the creation of a good law that will serve all consumers of electricity in Poland and will be part of building confidence in the law, but also aims to eliminate situations where the new legislation would adversely affect already implemented renewable energy projects implemented with the joint financial commitment of citizens and local authorities, so-called. umbrella and grant projects for installation or purchase of photovoltaic micro-installations. It is a positive response to the doubts raised by the local government units as to the fact that the change in consumer settlement rules introduced by the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Renewable Energy Act and certain other laws which will enter into force on 1 April 2021 may have a negative impact on the possibility of completing these umbrella and grant projects due to the resignation of the persons concerned. In order to address this risk and to assist local authorities in the implementation of the programmes under the proposed regulation, it is foreseen that persons who have concluded a contract by 31 March 2022 for the purchase, installation or financing of this micro-installation with a local government unit or other eligible entity which implements a project co-financed under the regional operational programme and who have submitted a correct request for the micro-installation to be connected by 31 December 2023 will be able to settle the generated and collected energy on existing terms, i.e. in the desert system. In order to reduce excessive control procedures and speed up the process, the prosumer will only be required to make a written statement to the seller that it has concluded a contract for the purchase, assembly or financing of an installation with a local government unit or other eligible entity. The adoption of legislative solutions for umbrella and grant projects will help to avoid problems related to the continuity of these projects, which concern many municipalities and entities from all over Poland. It is estimated that over 94 thousand are planned to be assembled or purchased throughout the country. photovoltaic installations from the measures provided for the implementation of umbrella and grant projects. It should be stressed that the law introduces favourable solutions for local authorities and entities participating in umbrella and grant projects, and that it is therefore justified to implement the regulations contained in Article urgently. 1 of this draft law, which should enter into force before 1 April 2023 in respect of changes to the rules on settlement of prosumers introduced by the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Act on renewable energy sources and certain other laws. The bill is favourable to micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises in the PV industry engaged in the sale or assembly of photovoltaic panels due to the possibility of increasing the sales of photovoltaic micro-installations or assembly services for participants in umbrella and grant programmes. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the law and justice continue to work on this bill without delay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u212	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I can't see. Why? Mr. Marshal, no minister? Ain't nobody gonna answer us? [[Voice from the room: It'll be here in a minute. He had to...]] It's disturbing, but there you go. Mr President, I think the Minister has such techniques that he can hear you. There you go. Okay, okay. We'll take it. With this bill - this is print No 1947 - we have a problem and we do not have it at the same time, i.e. We waited for the amendment, which was promised to local governments in November, to appear immediately at the moment when the PiS will incorporate a law that inhibits the development of photovoltaics. He incorporated a law that hindered the development of photovoltaics, caused that law to be pushed in the Sejm despite the Civil Coalition - Civic Platform project, which was notified by the Senate and which, contrary to this PiS law, caused the development of photovoltaics and protected all future prosumers, including those umbrella projects, in order to be able to invest peacefully, while the fact that PiS decided that it would inhibit this law, caused panic among the public, among potential customers, who started to withdraw from the signed agreements to participate in these umbrella projects in individual municipalities. This caused the local government to start calling us, intervening, saying: do something to make it as it has been so far, so that energy can be accounted for in the discharge system rather than in the so-called system. net-billing, because this net-billing system, as everyone says, everyone who is potential prosumers is unfavorable to them. At this point, we were in the middle of this procession. Our law of development falls, passes the Law of PiS-owska and the Minister says: I will introduce an amendment in November. We've got what right now? It's the end of January. And in the meantime, how many have withdrawn from 94,000. potential customers of photovoltaic installations, we'll see. The sustainability of the project, its effectiveness depends on the potential that lies in the production of electricity from photovoltaic panels. It so happens that photovoltaics and prosumers in general are the system that we introduced in 2015. The funniest part is, you know, how I hear from this speaker and I hear in a serious committee meeting that in our day it was 400, 4,000 prosumers, and now it's 800,000. Only once had to be the beginning. Once upon a time, there had to be this moment zero, the moment of takeoff. And we took off. And here we are, ladies and gentlemen, consciously knowing that certain conditions will have to be met in order for the consumer market to develop. This condition is not only help. That is very good, thank you to Minister Tchórzewski for introducing an aid bill that has led to the dynamic development of photovoltaic installations through funding, but that is not enough, because in parallel it was necessary to make investments in networks so that there is no blockage with which we are currently dealing. By the way, all these umbrella investments can cause a lot of photovoltaic installations to appear in one area, which will force us to take our energy from our roofs, which would go online. So we started this development, and then we proposed a law that introduced a virtual recipient, a collective prosumer. It was in our bill. I am glad that it is also in this project, which is a project of the PiS, e.g. Virtual recipient, but he doesn't show up until 2024. We will see what will be the market feedback, whether people will continue to want to help achieve the goal that Prime Minister Morawiecki signed in December 2020, i.e. to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030. Undoubtedly photovoltaic installations help this, and yet [[♪ The bell ♪]] at a time when we have such high gas prices, photovoltaic installations for many are salvation. And if we developed it even more dynamicly, there would be many more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! October 15th Ub. During the meeting of the subcommittee which examined the amendment of the law concerning the change of prosumer counts, we hosted local government officials, among others. Deputy Mayor of Nowy Targ, together with other local authorities from Tarnowskie Góra, Kozłowa from Małopolska, Janów Lubelski. These self-governments then said this: This is a big problem for us, because the residents are resigning from the projects and the companies are worried. People have a sense of social injustice. For us as local authorities, this is also a problem of settlement with marshal offices, because the penalties for not realizing projects are up to 525%, i.e. in the case of the municipality of Nowy Targ it would be 35 million PLN, which, as the mayor said, would be lethal for their commune. Then, in response to the identification of these problems, to the proposed project and the deadline for changes in the settlement of energy obtained from photovoltaic installations, Mr.Grafa said: I have a question: Why have you been signing such contracts for two years and they have not been completed so far? Why is the implementation of these agreements taking so long? Minister Gaina was kind to say also, I quote: We believe that the solutions we are working on will continue to benefit prosumers, and there is no cause for concern. There is no reason for prosumers to withdraw from the implementation of State programmes. End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, the act on which we are proceeding today was urgently examined. Minister Gaina says, however, that these changes need to be made, because umbrella projects really require a longer period of implementation. What does that say? This shows, above all, that the Minister cannot predict what the effects on local governments will have on the regulations introduced by him. And that seems to be the biggest problem. It also seems a big problem that it is a parliamentary project once again, and it is known that it was not created in the group of Members who present it, but was written in the Ministry. So we have this situation, that once again -- especially often this happens in other areas too, I'm in the Energy Commission, so I can see that perfectly well -- going to reason and writing the law in a reliable way, in which, however, the effects of legislative changes are taken into account, is a very rare thing in us, and it is a rule in energy matters. We have another patch on the ill-managed power system in Poland and we juggle another legal bubble. Today, at the committee meeting, Mr Tchórzewski also spoke about the need for energy production in a responsible manner. Minister Gaina also spoke about the need to ensure that energy is produced in a responsible manner. Ladies and gentlemen, these are extremely strange words. Today, when there are such huge increases in energy, when people in Poland talk about bankruptcy, when people in Poland talk about the fact that soon they will not be able to pay gas bills at all, we maintain - because, however, this law, this amendment, which we are talking about now, is just a patch - and we are going to continue to maintain a system that is negative or less beneficial for prosumers. And we know that renewable energy from the sun is the energy that gives energy security to the owner of the apartment. This energy doesn't cost the landlord more than the device he has to use to get it. Because as you know - probably everyone, I hope - solar energy is not the energy we have to pay for today. All we have to do is pay for the equipment. So if this country were wise (the bell) and if we had a good minister and good ministers in this field, we would do everything we could so that Poles and Poles could draw energy from renewable sources for their own needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The coalition of Poland will support this law because it is necessary and necessary. This bill is repaired by the error that was made during the process of the previous bill. And so it is: the project written in the Ministry is presented by Members. A fairly large element, the segment in which renewable energy is developing in our country, i.e. regional operational programmes, is being abandoned. After all, regional operational programmes in many voivodships, practically in all voivodships, have been functioning for many years. This is a very long process, but thanks to the involvement of local governments, that there is a high efficiency of local governments, a large operationality of marshals who can convince the inhabitants of their towns that it is necessary, it pays off, this process was developing. And this is still going on, and it will continue until the end of 2023, because these funds will be used. On the other hand, we hear very wretched translations from the government. First of all, it's the power grids that don't hold up, and there's a blockage, and we have to do something about it, and this bill is a salvage. On the other hand, when criticizing that photovoltaics are being blocked, the government says, no, this bill does not stop the production of electricity by photovoltaics. My question is, is this blocking already? And what happens if you don't stop the electricity production from photovoltaics? So, what? It's gonna block twice? This is a misinterpretation. On the other hand, there is a translation that the state is not from the fact that people will produce electricity. So? You're supposed to be doing this? Yeah, you're supposed to be doing this because the state is people, after all, the state produces for people. Instead of enjoying that so far we have 1% Photovoltaic electricity, prosumers, you're doing everything you can to disgust it and force people not to want to get involved. There's 700,000 for you, another myth. 700,000, maybe 800,000, maybe 1 million, let as many rise as possible, but that's not the point. The Prosumer Act on fixed tariffs was still passed for that PO-PSL coalition and you voted for it. Minister, I don't think you were there at the time, but you came and it was supposed to grow. It was more or less similar to what you're proposing, only in other proportions. You guys blocked it. In December 2015, you blocked this law. Why? To bring in yours and say: we now have success. Otherwise, it would be the success of the predecessors. And this is what you do in many cases when it comes not only to energy, but also to various other areas of our economic life. It is a great pity for Poland, for the economy, because it is holding back the investment process for a certain period. Social moods change, so if something's fixed and something's good... Prosumer isn't just someone who's gonna make it for himself. He's supposed to produce for himself, but he's supposed to produce for his closest neighbours, and the state is here to deal with the regulation. Because so what if we produce more if they don't change networks? I've talked about this before. The power grid will block three times more often. That's how you make this electricity as close as possible, because the principle in energy is that the electricity goes to the nearest receiver. Another thing. We're talking about photovoltaics. You're blocking. You've stopped the sun, you've stopped the wind before. You stopped the wind, and that's it, the wind doesn't blow. There's no wind here. Right now you're saying the sun won't shine. Let me tell you this: The coalition of Poland will start the wind and the sun will shine because it must happen. [[Applause, ringtone]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And you can't do things like that and tell stories. If you're telling me something, let's make sure there's some logic in all of this, and that doesn't have any logic. [[Voice from the room: Nice to meet you.]] It's blocking, but people are gonna produce a lot more. [[Voice from the room: There is no logic.]] So what's gonna happen? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We will help you.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: We will help you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u218	Thank you, sir, for this colourful speech. [[Please?]] Thank you very much for this colourful speech. [[I didn't take the glasses, so it was colorful.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sir, but I saw it because I took it. [[Ha, ha, ha! Forget your glasses more often.]] Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u219	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Sources and some other laws. High Izbo! As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the project is to introduce legal solutions enabling local government units to complete their implementation of umbrella and grant projects for installation and purchase of photovoltaic micro-installations. I must say that I have not met similar euphemism in a long time, because it is really about people not running away from local governments when it comes to these projects, for which powerful resources have been spent, about those projects which were intended to create many photovoltaic micro-installations, which will somehow make Polish families independent of the whims of power in terms of shaping the energy market. I remember today that discussion that took place a few months ago. I was just one of the more fierce and harsh critics to change the way energy production is accounted for by these micro-installations. Wedy Minister, the most fierce supporter of this change, said: Nothing is happening, everything is really thought out, everything is refined. The idea is excellent and everything will be fine. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] It's like a PRL joke. Today, the Minister, of course, by means of a parliamentary project, because the government has no courage to admit this mistake, comes and brings something completely opposite. Because it turned out that then local government officials, who spoke exactly like me, warned about the negative effects of this bad change, of people fleeing, because changing the way we settle against the absolute disadvantage for citizens is not in the interests of these citizens. They can count perfectly when the government tries to trick them and they sense this fraud a mile away. Today we see that the government was afraid that people, sensing this fraud, are fleeing from those projects that were started and which cost millions of PLN on the scale of Poland. This is a scandal of how, Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki's government approaches this important aspect, which is the correct shaping of RES development in Poland. Of course, Poland 2050 will support this project, while we demand a change in the way we think about photovoltaics, we demand a change in the way we think about civil energy producers, about Polish families who invest in photovoltaic installations and expect reasonable and above all fair accounting conditions. We expect the government, instead of spending money on Polish television, to feed itself - the cost of the government has increased probably four times over the last years... Thank you very much, sir, for this statement. ...has finally started to support investment in energy networks, which will allow for the growth of all these installations. Thank you very much again. Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for letting me speak. There you go. But we're out of time. Of course, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u220	Thank you very much for this declaration. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS Parliamentary Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party. What happened here, beloved rulers? Bubble bobble boblo rushes. You're patching up the law that you've just introduced yourself. That's the truth. Print No. 1947 is nothing more than a patch on the right, which you have introduced not so long ago. What happened here? The Bishops intervened? The parish didn't get into that favorable program that's been in force so far? [[They didn't make it.]] I can't believe you're suddenly worried about local governments, and you're certainly not worried about the citizens. Because if you were worried about citizens, you wouldn't be backing out of a program that allows these citizens to install photovoltaics. After April this year, most citizens will give up this kind of opportunity. He's gonna quit 'cause people can count 'cause it's not just gonna pay off. The essence of the problem is therefore your arrogant attitude towards renewable energy sources, as Mr Kasprzak said. You've barely begun to rule, you've already pulled out of the cab. Why? You've barely begun to rule, you've immediately pulled out of wind support. Why? Now you're pulling out of the sun. I take it that's what? Do you need more coal than the Russians to import? Is that it? Ladies and gentlemen! There are two possibilities. And perhaps these two possibilities come together at the same time. There's poverty in the budget. Isn't that right, Minister? There's no money, 'cause you're spending on a shithouse - so-called. Public television, you spend on Ostrołęka, which must be demolished. We're short of money, so you're gonna take that money out of the photovoltaics grant. But there is probably also a second possibility that has already been mentioned here. Power grids can't take it. Why can't they stand it? Well, please, because electricity networks in Poland are on average 50, 60 and some even 70 years old. You've been in charge for six years, and what have you done about it? Show any effect that is yours from start to finish - any. There is no, and that is your greatest sin in this matter. You didn't do anything to adapt the grids to the RES. Citizens wipe their eyes out of wonder, look at the chaos that surrounds them, and just don't believe their own eyes. The booze is chasing the booze. But they wipe even more of their eyes when they look at the bills: electricity, gas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they ask what's going on. Why is this power still hindering them from getting electricity from the sun, which, as it has been said, is free? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u222	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 22 people volunteered for the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I cordially invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club Left. And if you do not, I invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club of the Left. I know he's in the O.R. because I see him. I have the impression that Mr Jan Szopiński is always in the Chamber. [[I've been expecting you, Marshal.]] That's what I thought. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let us be clear: the project is not a new project and is not the answer to the doubts raised, it is merely an attempt to correct incorrect and misleading entries in the source document. But I would like to ask the following question: When is the government going to present a coherent and meeting citizens' expectations project related to the collection and storage of electricity generated from alternative sources? Polish electricity grids do not meet the requirements necessary to develop this direction of electricity production. This is in clear contradiction with the energy development directions outlined by the European Union. This is also contrary to the economic interests of thousands of citizens who have engaged their money in the development of alternative energy production methods. Dear Minister, I would like a reply to these questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about a bill that will cause people not to give up photovoltaics, that they will continue to try to use green energy. The law, which was the original one, had to be improved. 31 December 2023 is the deadline by which everyone will probably go online. The question I want to address to you is: Are you able to guarantee, as Minister of Climate and Environmental Protection, with the best knowledge that all prosumers who sign contracts with individuals by 31 March will be able to connect to the energy grids for the energy they produce will have the opportunity to do so? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u227	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion on the bill, I wanted to ask the Minister about two aspects and I would very much like to ask for a written reply. The first issue concerns those people who, when installing small private power plants, family power plants, photovoltaic panels, have reported a desire to obtain funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and feel deceived by the government today, because the scarce amount of this funding compared to interest did not allow many of them to receive this funding. When will these people finally be informed that they didn't qualify and be apologized for being bothered? And secondly, what instruments of support are the government designing to stimulate the modernisation of electricity networks (the bell) that are today a powerful barrier for people to actually benefit from installing their own small home power stations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski is asked to do so and will remain so. Małgorzata Chmiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles began to invest more and more in renewable energy sources, mainly in photovoltaics. You've butchered before. Wind power plants, now, at the end of October, you adopted the Photovoltaics Installation Act, and from 1 April it will not be profitable to install such photovoltaic panels and produce cheap energy. I ask myself: Is that why you did it because you couldn't adapt the installations to receive energy from renewable energy sources for six years? Now you're correcting this bullshit, the bill, the wrong records about the extension of the payout deadline by local governments. Let me remind you that we have requested this before, and we have submitted our draft RES Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which lies at Marshal Witek's, and you don't want to proceed. Why, since our project [[Applause]] Would he solve all these problems?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, Green Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u231	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with the patching of holes, which leaves behind the destructive legislation of the United Right. We are patching the hole that you broke in the RES Act, eliminating the waste system, which led to the massive withdrawal from the umbrella projects run by local governments of the next beneficiaries. You created a gigantic problem for local governments, and in the process of the previous amendment it was clearly signalled - you ignored it, and now you are heroically repairing this problem. Simply the Polish disorder of the rule of the United Right in full order. Instead of patching up more holes and solving your massive problems, you should simply return to the empty system. The ideal solution would be to introduce a system of guaranteed tariffs (the Bell), which is successfully applied in most European countries. My questions: Does the Ministry plan to introduce such a system? Do you even care about the development of Polish photovoltaics and the surrender of energy production to consumers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u233	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In October last year you pushed a bill that actually kills home-made photovoltaics, kills, although the construction of solar panels could be a flywheel of the Polish economy, although the energy from the sun is saved for the environment and good for our pockets, although the development of photovoltaic micro-installation is a chance for Poland to start using RES mass. Unfortunately, the government does not invest in the modernisation of transmission networks, it does not create energy stores, it does not go away from coal - it prefers to hit and kill prosumers. The pattern of action is always the same: one extremely stupid act plow everything and then patch it badly, just like today's amendment. Patch to patch, then probably another patch. Instead of correcting it indefinitely, eliminate the cause of the problem, which is the destructive act (the bell) of home photovoltaics. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u234	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition. [[I demand. I demand.]] Your messenger begs and demands. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act provides that the legacy system will be replaced by another billing model, which includes prosumers entering the market after 1 April. The industry has already repeatedly signaled that these solutions are far less favourable to prosumers, and the government with stubborn maniacs argues that the system will be adapted to the requirements of European Union law and will ensure the safety of the functioning of the system. However, after the announcement of the change in the billing model, the beneficiaries started to withdraw from the programmes in fear of adverse conditions for the settlement of the energy produced. If a significant number of beneficiaries withdraw from the projects, local authorities may have a major problem with the clearance of programmes, which could result in major financial losses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What assistance will local government units be able to count on in such a situation? Because the situation is dramatic as far as I know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The inhabitants of the powiats wiąsławskiego and Jastrzębski, Żor, Rybnik and the earthly districts of these cities ask, Minister, when they will receive funding for their photovoltaics, for their installation. They set up installations in June and applied for funding in July. Tell them today from the Seym tribune, when and what resources they can count on. What will happen if further applications for installation of photovoltaic panels are launched in May? What means and what program will the inhabitants be able to use to continue producing their own electricity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u238	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish Coalition to paint the world for the second time today. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u239	Now I've forgotten my masks, Marshal. Minister! I have a practical question. It is not that we can cut regional operational programmes at the end of March. This is a process that concerns the entire financial perspective. These are European funds. If it turns out that within the same program in the voivodship, it is from the ranking list that individual municipalities enter... Let me give you an example. I know a community that got information from a marshal last week. The information was: please come, sign the contract, because there are additional funds. There are tenders, there will be free resources, the marshal can move it. If, in April, a local government is to receive funds from a marshal because the marshal will want to make the most of them, and he has until the end of 2023, what will the consequences be? You said that everything would be done on a new basis, but it goes on under the same regional operational programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have that information? Will there be local governments that will remain? Another question. We talked a lot about energy. Polska Spółka Gazownictwo suspended the implementation of new connections to gas networks by the end of 2023. Does the Minister know anything about this? If not, I'd ask for information. Many individuals report to me. It's a drama. ♪ Someone's gonna be there ♪ he planned it, he has an investment, he needs heating, and at the moment there is no way to connect to the gas network. This is supposed to be the decision of the Polish Gas Company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The cokers will come back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Minister! Over the previous four years, the networks of the highest voltages have been upgraded. This cost almost PLN 5 billion in terms of support alone. It also cost a lot of energy companies. The 110 kV networks have also been upgraded, which are available for distribution of energy companies. Other networks - 15 kV and low voltage networks have not been upgraded for many years. Probably need money for that, too. Today we know that if we want to develop renewable energy sources even more, and we have committed ourselves, and we have to go this way, these modernizations are extremely important. All previous modernizations carried out in accordance with European Union rules (the bell) had 50% support. Today, given the situation with regard to energy prices and how many companies have to pay for energy, modernization is very difficult. I would like to ask from this point of view that the rules on EU funds... To try to renegotiate. The point is that Poland can benefit from the modernisation of the network. If there is no modernisation, this will hamper the development of renewable energy sources. It's not just about photovoltaics. A change in the way EU funds are spent is necessary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I continue with the question of Minister Tchórzewski. When will the money enter Poland on the National Reconstruction Plan? After all, there are at least a few hundred million deputies. It's on the Internet right now. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Call them.]] In the meantime, you seem to be taking your time. Apparently, it's not the number one problem, and it's not the only problem. The second question relates to the continuation of the project. If we have some installation that we installed, say, a year, two years ago, we're in the vent system, we're gonna want to run a heat pump, and we're gonna figure that up to 10 kW that we already have, we're gonna have to add a few more... Can we do this as part of the old system after 1 April 2023? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fatal information comes from executives in the energy sector. In December, companies cooperating with the Szczecin branch of Enei were informed that in 2022 they were not able to count on contracts. Enea minimises investment and modernisation. The reason is lack of resources. This is another blow - next to the Polish shaft, inflation and gas increases - which Polish small family companies will receive. They employ highly skilled and therefore well-paid workers. How are they supposed to hold them? It's a rhetorical question. Enea's lack of investment is also a problem for people building homes. Without new connections, they won't be able to build unless they invest in generators. Similar news comes from PGNiG. This is worrying news about the lack of funds for investment. There is also talk of limiting or even stopping the construction of the connectors. Enea and PGE are going to get the money by issuing shares. This raises concerns for investors and exposes the State Treasury's expenses, which will have to spend money on these shares in order to maintain control packages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does anyone else have it under control? Can Minister Sasin explain why the companies were paying the State Treasury the tax dividends instead of investing? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without energy companies, all these laws that we're investigating here will just be a dead record, because without them, there's nothing we can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u246	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, First of all, this bill we're investigating today is late. Secondly, this could have been done when a major government amendment was being carried out. At that time, local governments and investors were not listened to. June 25th Ub. I have submitted a proper interpellation on these umbrella and grant investments carried out, among others. by the municipality of Brudzew, the village municipality of Turk, the commune of Kawęczyn, Dąbie, Krzymów, from the district of Turkish, Kolski and Konin. It was then that local governments demanded the government to create this transitional period. I ask: Why have you spent seven months trying to get this solution in place now, once again, through the parliamentary project, through a fast path, without much consultation? What is the government's position on this (Bingle) bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u248	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the parliamentary club of the Left, of course, from what I know.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u249	I'm gonna take off my mask now, Marshal. Oh, yeah, that's right. There you go. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is the right decision that this draft law has appeared. Besides, we've already signaled that this problem has arisen in the process, so we're repairing what hasn't been realized again. My question, however, is this: Does the Minister have information on how many entities this will involve? What is the potential level of investment, and what is the level of capacity that may occur on the market? Has this law been assessed by electricity grid operators? Because the truth is, there's a technical problem in all of this, too. In short, it is about the terms of connection and what Mr Łącki said here: we are actually dealing with the situation that the expenditure of energy companies, when it comes to network investments, will unfortunately not increase, but will decrease. Already today (the bell) is an adjustment of investment plans. That is why it is extremely important for energy to know that this is the kind of bill we are investigating right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When did the problem start? The problem began when the Senate's majority rejected the amendments made by the Senate government. Unfortunately, this House has taken and rejected not only the amendments, but the entire bill. And that's where the problem started. Then the future residents, in connection with these umbrella programs, the subsidies, to try to change it, and for us to submit a bill here in the House... [[Lie! You're lying...]] ...which, however, takes into account the interests of local governments, will take into account the interests of those prosumers who want to participate in these programmes. It is very good that there is a bill that will not divide these people into better and worse ones, the ones in the old system and the ones in the new system, only work in one system, they will be able to benefit from settlements in one system. This system is beneficial. So that I think that this debate is unfortunately the same as at the committee's first reading (the bell): everyone criticises, unfortunately unfoundedly and unfoundedly, and then all vote in favour. And I wish this opposition at the end of this bill in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u252	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u253	Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! You're bragging in the PiS government that you have a lot of investments in renewable energy sources. Only in Europe investments in RES and the share of RES in energy market are 37% and in Poland 16%. [[Voice in the room: 27%...]] Where are we in the statistics? At the very end. Could photovoltaics be an element that would change this status? Of course you do, only these goals need to be seen in the long term. But it's not just the strategy you're wrong about. You are also wrong about the aid that should be provided at the bottom, i.e. regional and local government. And I ask the question on behalf of the inhabitants of the districts and Zninski, and Tucholski, Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw: What is the real aid today? Because she's not here. There wasn't one e-mail, one phone call that would praise you for this reform. Everyone's out of line. Help these people in the region, because that's what it's all about, so they don't lose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u255	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The changes pushed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment in a hurry are radical and will also create unpredictable rules for energy accounting from the micro-installation of RES. My question is: Why didn't you set up a transitional period, preserving the current billing system for prosumers, e.g. By the end of 2023? Why didn't you have a fair and comprehensive consultation with the relevant NGOs, local governments or activists, e.g. from the Junior Climate Strike or the Polish Smog Alert? This would show you a completely different dimension and give you a different look at the introduced, after all the important legal regulations. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear colleagues! I wonder if there is more ideology or concern for citizens in these statements of the opposition. I am firmly in favour of this bill. It was not heard in your statements, but it is beneficial for the local government, for the energy industry, and for the citizens. Take a simple example: if the family uses 5,000. kWh, at current prices in the G11 tariff, spends PLN 3700. Installation for 5,000. kWh is the cost approx. 20,000, funding is up to 70% I mean, physically, the family will pay $6,000. With the expenditure of PLN 3700 on energy, this causes (the bell) that within 2 years this investment is able to return. Minister, I hope that citizens, the opposition voters will benefit from this because this is for us. Question: "Do these calculations on return on investment match?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u259	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, it seems to me that here, however, what our old Polish saying says often appears in the statements: what it will bring to the tongue. Unfortunately, no one leaned over where the problem was. Consumer installations are connected to a low voltage network. What Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski said. These networks still need to be upgraded, but we will never modernise them to peak load, because it will never be economically assured. Accuracy factor and peak power These are two different things. Photovoltaic installations operate only for 3 months per year, still within certain hours of the day, with maximum efficiency. The Germans could not afford, and even more so Poland, to expand low-voltage networks. That, ladies and gentlemen, what you're saying... You're gonna deny it. I already mentioned at the committee meeting that a little bit of elementary knowledge was needed. Minister! So that we do not lead to the fact that we have built for Poles from local government money or Poles themselves from their own money built expensive gadgets in gardens or on rooftops, I would ask for information whether there are (the bell) mechanisms to support construction on low-voltage energy storage networks, which will allow efficient use of production from micro-installations to store surplus during the hours of daily production, so that it can be used in the evening - because it is also not so that we will store energy for months. Prosumers should analyze and prepare their installations to work for their needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice is not capable of generating energy from renewable energy sources. But if the people wanted to help, they wanted to take matters into their own hands, the government thwarted their plans. You say very often, and this has also progressed in today's debate on the bill that the barrier to connecting photovoltaic micro-installations is the failure of energy networks. You also referred to this as Minister Tchórzewski. If we have a defined problem, why don't we invest in these networks? And a specific question. Poland since 2017 from CO2 emissions trading [[♪ The bell ♪]] it obtained PLN 57 billion, only last year it was PLN 25 billion. How many of these amounts have you just allocated to investments in networks, to solve a problem that is a barrier to the development of photovoltaics in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u262	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Ireneus to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u263	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I would like to thank you very much for this interesting discussion, also for the work on the bill at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. First of all, I would like to thank the Group of Members, the Parliamentary Club Members, Law and Justice, for bringing this very important bill to the Marshal's staff. This is a law that we would not have to deal with, High Izbo - it was said about it, it seems, Mr Andrzej Gawron in his speech, in his question about it - if the Senate, the higher House of Parliament, had accepted the amendment that Senator Wojciech Piech had tabled, and which had exhausted the substantive scope of the submission of this law, which we are leaning on today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate unfortunately rejected the draft law entirely in its political rage, and later in the Sejm we could do nothing but reject the Senate's veto. Therefore, when the law entered into force when, after the signature of the President, the law entered into force, we declared on the part of the government administration, on the part of the Ministry of Climate and Environment support and support for these demands of local government units. And I will say that I do not know the exact number, but there are about 840 municipalities in Poland that carry out umbrella and grant programmes with European funds under regional operational programmes for the 2014-2020 period. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of this period of contracting European funds from the European Union's previous budget, and at the moment we are no longer talking about new contracts - he also asked about this. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. We are talking about the completion of programmes, projects, as well as contracts that have been signed by municipalities with residents of these municipalities. We aim to ensure that everyone who until 31 March this year. they will sign an agreement with the municipality or with another institution implementing such programmes, they could have been connected to the electricity grid by the end of 2023 and benefit on the basis of the rules relating to the legacy. Why is that? As individuals will not be the owners directly, they will be the final beneficiaries of these solutions, but the municipalities. It is the municipalities that must announce a public contract, carry out the whole project for all residents who have joined such umbrella schemes. Therefore, later on, there will be a 5-year project sustainability period and only at the earliest in 2029 will eventually be able to become owners. Here already a form of solution between the municipality and the resident, but they will be able to ultimately become owners of these installations. So today we are primarily concerned with the interests of the municipalities, the interests of local self-government units, firstly, in order to make proper use of European funds so that no euro or even eurocent loses from these funds, so that they serve the municipalities and residents of the municipalities, and finally, that there are no negative financial consequences for the potential return of these funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the plenary room focused mainly on electricity networks. I can say that over PLN 36 billion have been spent on transmission and distribution networks from 2016 to 2021 in the last five years. A group of Members recently submitted a discussion on this matter a month ago, a very comprehensive and comprehensive response was given in this regard. I believe you senators, two senators of the Civic Coalition have also asked about this scope, so I have also given such an answer. We serve all the data in this regard. Unfortunately, time is running very fast, and if the marshal allows me to extend it a little longer... Just a little bit. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to a number of quite populist statements that, above all, (the bell), dear Member States, as regards the share of renewable energy, I can say proudly as a representative of the government for renewable energy sources, that the government is perfectly capable of developing renewable energy. It was in the rule of law and justice that we started the spectacular development of the photovoltaic sector. And let's not forget the wind, ladies and gentlemen, because when it comes to unfair opposition assessments related to the fact that wind energy is not developing on land... Since 2015, more than 1.5 GW of power installed in the wind on land has arrived, today it is the power of more than 7 GW of installed power. And it has to be said that in RES auctions that have been held in the last 3 years, we have contracted another nearly 5 GW and they will be built. We already take this as a commitment, as agreements concluded by investors, so that in the next 24, 36 months it will be realized. This will be another 5GW. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2025, we will reach nearly 11,5, perhaps even more GW of power installed in the wind on land. This is more than we want to realize in the great economic, energy project in the Baltic Sea over the next 10 years as part of offshore wind energy. Regarding photovoltaics, in 2015 there were only 4 thousand in Poland. Prosumers. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not take this in these categories that our predecessors have done too little, just the market was at an early stage of development. But it is up to us, the government of Law and Justice, that there has been an incredibly dynamic development since then. In fact, we are praised, among others. by the International Renewable Energy Agency IRENA. Recently, on 16 December, Mr. Francesco La Camera, CEO of the International Renewable Energy Agency, visited the big event. He also noticed that at the end of 2021 probably because there is no official data yet, but we have exceeded the level of 800,000. Prosumers. 800,000. Prosumers, and the power installed in photovoltaics... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I'm on my way to the finals. ...is over 5 GW power. In general, I would like to say that plus, as we add, these projects that have been contracted between the President of the Energy Regulatory Office and investors in all RES technologies: photovoltaics, wind on land, biogas, biogas, biomass, small water energy, that is in 2025, so in three years' time, we will have 28 GW installed in RES and you can ask me if that is the case. I'm sure you do. We are also developing issues of energy storage, it is the program of my current 4.0., which will be aimed at all... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: ...interested prosumers. But that's not enough. Together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, we plan a large programme of construction of energy warehouses at the ends of the network, at low voltage. Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I'm almost done, Marshal. Sir, I've already given you four more minutes. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Thank you so much for your kindness, I'm finishing my final sentence. What I'm saying is... That's the last sentence. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: The topic is inexhaustible, it is a beautiful discussion about Polish energy. But what I'm saying is, ladies and gentlemen... Thank you very much for this fantastic last sentence. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: ...that over PLN 52 billion will be spent in the next two to three years on the development of distribution and transmission networks in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u264	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Okay, I have a problem because the Minister ate four minutes with taste. [[And he didn't answer the question.]] And that is your assessment, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: We will reply in writing.]] Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, rapporteur for the committee. I have a request for you to remember that the Minister ate you four minutes, so you have one minute, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the way you have dealt with this bill. I'm sure there was a rough discussion, a rough exchange, but it was very obvious that it was all over the top. That's what we're all about. For this I would like to thank you that we are taking an equal step to make Poland even our chances. The situation is that I would like to correct the Minister a little bit. Well, we just went over 27% a month ago. the share of renewable energy sources in total energy. $14.5,000. MW renewable energy at 53 000 total installed capacity, i.e. 27%. That's what it seemed impossible for us a few years ago. It's because of these movements, sometimes a little chaotic, you can say, these things we get. And I think the adoption of this bill and the 97,000. The next prosumers that will be connected, as we said, are exhausting... There were voices of this type here, and I would like to stress that we could still connect these prosumers, only we have such situations that when it threatens to fail, energy turns up and does not take away from this prosumer of its energy. We already have places like this and lines like this. If we say now, "Let them build, and then it turns out that little energy is coming from them, then people will be deceived. ' The State and we, as Members, cannot go in this direction. However, we must make these networks renewed. Therefore, I thank you once again very warmly for the fact that this law has gone so far and that this potential for renewable energy is developing as much as possible. On the other hand, if we have much to do, sometimes things don't work out carefully. But the point is, at the end, it's gonna be okay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u266	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with point 10. - I think you will not be angry - I will say a few warm words, Mr Supper, which are not political. I think we should wish Iga a Christmas that got into the semi-finals today to win the Australian Open. It's so simple. [[Applause]] [[Will there be a proper resolution, Marshal?]] I wanted to introduce a human element in this difficult policy. I don't know if I made it. If I didn't make it, maybe it'll work further. [[Voice from the room: Even superhuman.]] Well, the Left has that possibility. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on a draft law amending the Act amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws (prints No. 1948 and 1964). I would very much like to ask Mrs Violetta Porowska to submit a report to the committee. Good morning, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u267	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the parliamentary bill amending the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and the Act amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No. 1948. Respectable committees today leaned on the draft law, the essence of which is the following legislative solutions. In view of the ongoing work on the law introducing major changes in the organisation of the functioning of the PSZ, the basic system of hospital health care provision insurance, which will not be possible in real terms before the end of March 2022, without legislative intervention, which would result in the need for qualified healthcare providers to do so under existing conditions, and for 4 years, the following changes are proposed. Adoption as the basis for the calculation for the next lump sum of the 2019 reporting data, i.e. the last reference period prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. We are aware that most PSZ-et providers have experienced a decrease in the number of benefits provided, especially in the planned mode, compared to the pre-pandemic period. This means that the adoption as a basis of a lump sum for the subsequent accounting period of the last accounting period would lead to the calculation for many providers of the undervalued lump sum in relation to the amounts currently received by the entities. The proposed solution is most favourable, but also most meaningful, given that 2019 was the last settlement period undistorted by pandemic perturbations. In addition, the proposed amendments will extend the current lists of PSZ qualified healthcare providers for another 6 months, i.e. until 31 December of this year. It is also proposed to amend the Article. 8 Act amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. This amendment aims to extend the period for applying for medical studies until the end of the academic year 2021/2022 for the period of the first and second semesters of the academic year. This is a change in favour of students applying for credit for medical studies, as it significantly extends the duration of their application for credit. The absence of an amendment to the Act will prevent the application for reverse financing of the current winter semester. The proposed changes are beneficial and, moreover, expected by medical, hospital and of course by medical students. It is proposed that the proposed law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication with the exception of Article. Point 1 (2), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Article 2 and Article 2 3, which should enter into force on the day following the date of the announcement, given that, in the light of the current provisions, the new list of MFA providers and the fixing of lump sums should be ready by the end of March 2022. There has been a very constructive discussion during today's joint committees, which I must stress, as it has shown understanding of the need for the legislative arrangements in question. One amendment was accepted in the discussion, adding an article. 2a. This amendment will allow the maximum amount of the commitment that the provider of basic healthcare can make available, which will lead to a clarification of the rules for financing the care coordinated by the provider. In addition, the amendment amended the name of the draft law, i.e. now it will be a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and some other laws, print No 1964. Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and Health after first reading and considering the above draft law at its meeting on 26 January 2022, after the vote ended with: 64 persons - for, at 1 - against and 1 abstention, ask the High Sejm to adopt the proposed act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u268	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Mariusz Trepka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[There it is, there it is. He's coming.]] Come on in. [[Thank you, Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is my pleasure and honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This scope of the law provides, you can say, two provisions in two laws. The first draft provides for an amendment to Article. 2 of the Law of 17 March 2021 amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, extending until 31 March 2022 the first list of healthcare providers qualified to individual levels of primary hospital health care insurance. This list shall be valid until 30 June in accordance with the current legal status. It will be extended until 31 December 2022. The second amendment is to amend Article. 8 the Law of 17 November 2021 amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws. The proposed provision provides for an extension of the period for applying for medical studies until the end of the academic year 2021/2022 for the period of the first and second semesters of the academic year 2021/2022. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports change and will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u270	Thank you. That's what I thought, sir. Yes, sir. Mr Paweł Kowal, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come, my dear fellow Member, dear Paul. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it is true that we have spoken at the committee meeting today in agreement, considering two seemingly minor matters, minor changes. Because, in fact, whenever we touch on this issue, which is of particular interest to me in this amendment, i.e. the issue of scholarships, we also touch on the most important problem facing Poland today. We're touching the issue of the future. After all, we are not thinking about extending some short term, in fact we are wondering and looking for answers - because this is our commitment - how to ensure that in 5, 10, 20, 30 years we will have wonderful doctors, such as have stood up to fight COVID. After all, this is the essence of the matter - that we have to answer the question not to postpone one deadline, because there is agreement on that. We have to answer the question of why today is that doctors don't want to be surgeons. That young people don't go to medicine because they're afraid to do some medical jobs because they watch their older friends get treated. Because they observe carefully the fate of those who choose to sacrifice their lives as a doctor. And that's why today there's no point talking only about the issue of credit. We need to talk more about other mechanisms. About the mechanisms that will give doctors legal certainty. About the mechanisms that will restore - and this is our role, and this is our responsibility - the prestige of this profession, which has been taken away many times in recent years. Yes, that must also be said, because it does not affect this atmosphere. Let's love each other. That we were having a heart-to-heart conversation on the committee today? But this profession was hit, hit, insulted. Yeah, it's all been in the last few years. These people risked their lives, and at the same time they were the subject of violent political pursuits, including government television. We should say it here today, it is our responsibility, because in a few or several years Poles will have nowhere to go to the doctor, to whom to go to the doctor. Doctors and doctors heard how they were treated. These young people - I can say that - who decide to be doctors, looked at what is involved in doing this profession under Polish conditions. And it involves a great deal of waste, work in very difficult conditions, huge troubles, and a huge sacrifice uncompensating even with respect, often with respect for public officials. In the case of gynecology, in the case of general surgery, in the case of oncology, in the case of internal medicine - it all happened in front of our eyes. Therefore, let this term be extended. I'm using this bleacher and inviting your marshal to talk about the most important thing that's real. I'm taking this opportunity to say credit, ladies and gentlemen, will make no difference. It is the High Chamber and the government must change the thinking of public trust professions, professions such as teachers or doctors, otherwise doctors will not supply, choose specializations in which people are lacking. After all, in the freezer of your marshal lies a magnificent, prepared by a team of experts a bill of ours, solidarity, which was addressed just to medical services, nurses, nurses, doctors, doctors and all others who stood up to fight during the COVID. It was a great sacrifice, it was a great unknown. Our task today and the task of the High House is not to take care of one or the other shift of time. We have to do this, that's what we have to do. Our task is to have a serious debate on the public trust professions, on the public service professions, on the medical services, on the teaching profession. We must return to a serious discussion about the ethos and prestige of these professions and ensure that people who make a choice today have a good professional future, that we understand their work, that we respect it and that we can create legal instruments that help them choose for life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without us, no one will. Let this be the case, and let us remember this from this debate, not the delay of a few days, because it would not have been necessary to call the Sejm if it had not been for formal commitments. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the subject of this law is quite long, and the law itself concerns two points - the rapporteur has quite precisely described all this. We believe that the project presented is simple and responds to the needs of people who may have felt financial problems with the pandemic, with study. At the time of Coronavirus, good ideas should be supported, especially when supported by the environments concerned. The proposed bill deals with a system solution that will support medical students and facilitate student loans, and this law is about extending this period. On the other hand, with regard to the context of the list of providers qualified for the basic health benefit insurance scheme, it may be possible to carry out a certain evaluation of how these providers carry out their duties to date, but also to collect the data that are most needed today. At this point, I would like to point out that it would be worth discussing again the increase in the percentage of GDP allocated to health protection, because it is insufficient today. The inflation that rushes makes hospital costs much higher. It's just that the percentage isn't enough. I believe that the idea of extending qualifications is right, and we should not add further bureaucracy to institutions that require our help and support in a pandemic era. Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will of course vote in favour of this law. Indeed, we could discuss what Mr Kowal said about health care, because today we see that once there were several people willing to go to medical school, today the number of people willing to study medicine is much smaller. But I hope that at least loans will help students, because we know that not everyone who wants to study just can afford college. This is indeed one of the good directions that is and will be extended. So that the Polish Coalition club will vote in favour of this law. This is indeed a formality. I hope that we will sit down for a serious debate on health care and help people to study medicine more and more, to study medicine, to study medicine, and to know that in Poland it will be a profession of great respect. It's about knowing that they're going to be treated the way they're supposed to, not the way some people do. We heard the words in this plenary room: let them go, so today we have the situation we have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, a parliamentary circle of the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u275	Thank you, Marshal. I'll tell you what. We have just heard a reminder that it was: let them go, and a few weeks ago the former Minister of Health, Mr PiSu, Mr Piecha, said that if the system accidentally falls out of the system about 10% The doctors who are not vaccinated at this point, it is difficult, we will manage because we are able to manage without further doctors, even though at this point it is so that Poland is the country in which there are least doctors of 100,000. citizens throughout Europe, which needs to be taken into account. It was very interesting for Mr Kowal to speak. Of course, I agree 100%. By the way, there was a discussion that student loans should be introduced and that, somehow, medical students should be held back and linked to our system. Of course, the discussion is only about doctors now, because, first of all, we miss them very much, secondly, we have a covid situation as we have, and we had to take specific, specific measures. It's a pity that only doctors are involved, because we could think about what the whole higher education system looks like. At a time when we are introducing this type of regulation for one group, we could think about the rest, because we could clearly think about what are the courses of study that actually bring something concrete from the perspective of our future, and what we need, what people we need in the labour market, because we have allowed ourselves to train our labour market from professionals, professionals, people with specific manual skills for the past few years, or actually 10 years from the date of entry into the European Union, and also those who have to return at this point. And that's the common task of the government. This law is a typically technical law, it is a technical change, a positive change. The Confederation will, of course, support it. But I am pleased that, by the way, this debate could - among other things. thanks to Mr Kowal, become a debate about the future of Polish higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u277	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't see any representatives of the Ministry. The bill deals with two completely different issues and this raises doubts as to why on the cleanliness of the real legislative process. The only common element is financial matters in general. Firstly, the main point that I would like to point out in turn is that the intention is indeed to ensure the continuity of the financing of health care units in a permanent crisis situation related to the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to suspend the experiment which Law and Justice have decided to introduce by law, among others. as the definition of primary hospital security. This was to be an important element affecting the level of funding for hospitals. In addition, based on the concern that all contracted benefits will not be met in the years of the active pandemic, it is proposed to consider as the basis for the calculation in the current lump sum year as defined in the last year of normal activity, 2019, without strong distractions related to periodic infringements of continuity of benefits. In this respect, it is necessary to stress that we are generally against such quasi-budget principles of financing health care, which Law and Justice have decided to introduce, replacing normal contracting with a flat-rate form, which is actually quasi-budget. In the current situation, this may exceptionally be used as a specific collateral for the provider, but this is collateral only to a certain extent and momentary. First of all, in many cases, the lump sum in 2019 may not be sufficient to reflect the increase in operating costs. Most importantly, it still hangs over hospitals like the sword of Damocles fear that it may not be because of its fault that it may not be possible to fulfil the contract records this year, which is affected by the inability to perform many procedures mainly procedures, because unfortunately anesthesiologists are those who are at the so-called. respirators -- they're not respirators that heal -- and they're needed. Please state that the government has waived the obligation to comply with the limit of benefits fixed during the normal operation of hospitals, and the fixed costs are the largest part of the costs of those facilities, they must be borne so that the hospitals do not fail. It is missing - and it is missing - a financial shield similar to that used to entrepreneurs already at the beginning of the pandemic. Public hospitals could not benefit from this, while medical facilities were additionally hit by a huge increase in costs (the Bell), among others. due to the rise in prices of energy carriers. As for the second point, we consider it appropriate to make the possibility of lending to medical students enshrined in the previous law a reality. We have no comment on that. I hope that allowing normal hospital activities will return not only with the resolution of the pandemic, but also to enable them to take responsible decisions in future governments. I fully support Mr Kowal's position, in which the problem of the absence of doctors is well, synthetically addressed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u278	It's time for doctors. Another doctor - Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club Lefta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law basically does not solve anything important for health protection, but the parliamentary club of the Left will support it, because although it will not reduce the debt of our hospitals, and this is probably close to 20 billion, including a few billion due, it will allow even further funding, not for the task but for the flat-rate, of the whole basic system of hospital care provision by a lump sum calculated on the basis of the period before the epidemic, because we know that hospitals were not self-inflicted as a result of the overload - it was different in the various months of the previous year, and similarly it will probably be this year - they were neither able to perform such a large amount of health services that they were performing before the epidemic. This lump sum will at least reduce this money deficit a little bit. We're waiting because it's important, and maybe it's time for the Minister to tell us what's going on with the flagship hospital reform, because we still don't have it, there's still no project. Minister Niedzielski gave the project for public consultation in December. The results of these consultations are still unknown, and this is a law that raises many concerns about us due to the assumptions of this hospital reform in Poland, i.e. the creation of a central hospital management in Poland, the creation of a new creation: the Hospital Development Agency, which will divide hospitals - probably so, because these are preliminary information - into four categories. It is the Agency for the Development of Hospitals that will impose managers, will organize a system of obtaining privileges for management staff, so-called. certificate. We don't know what the funding will be. This reform is quite ruggedly announced, even determined that it will be a constitution for hospitals, while we do not know much about it yet, and it was supposed to be valid according to... Let us recall the momentum of Deputy Minister Gadomski. I'm fair. Deputy Minister Gadomski, who attended meetings of the Health Committee, met in various ways, was in principle single-memberly responsible for this, knew what he was working for or had to pursue. Now Vice Minister Gadomski is gone. Will this work not lose momentum and, above all, direction? Because this is a great potential threat for Poles and Poles, if it does not come out, and I remind you that not long ago we had a great propaganda success: a national network of hospitals, which unfortunately ended in a great blaze. Let's hope this reform isn't the case. The second change in medical school loans doesn't change anything either. We used to adopt these student loans by a large majority, taking into account the deep shortage of doctors or, above all, doctors, dentists. The rules are not changing, only in the original legal solution the proposals were to be submitted by the end of this semester. As in the case at hand, for lump sums for hospitals, the provisional period was extended by 6 months, so that loans can be applied for until the end of the 2021/2022 academic year. It is also a sensible change, although I fear that the improvement (the bell) of the staff situation, as far as doctors are concerned, will have little effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u280	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to asking questions that are nine. Therefore, I set 1 minute for the question. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club of the Left and ask him to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, if there is no doubt about the issue of student loans, these doubts will certainly lead to a shift to 31 December 2022 of the first list of healthcare providers qualified to individual levels of primary hospital care provision. Why? Because the second half of 2022 may be a period of enormous accumulation of patients and their current needs. The question is this: Does accepting data from 2019 therefore make any sense in a situation where the hospital service is hung by an avalanche of late scheduled procedures for 3 years increased by possible complications and reduced health status of their patients? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing to my doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When it comes to supporting students regardless of the direction they end up in, and here in the particular case of doctors, it is absolutely right, but the question I would ask very much for a written answer, because I do not see the Minister, is: What are the plans of long-term security of society in doctors who will be treating, will diagnose Poles and Poles after COVID? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u284	Thank you very much. Minister, sit here in the front row. Everyone will see you, they won't be looking for you. Sit here where the Prime Minister is. It's not like we know what your future's gonna be. You gotta get used to it. I'm sitting here quietly, too. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u285	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the bill is going in the right direction, although I recall, Minister, like the Member of Law and Justice sitting here, whose names I will not mention from a natural attitude, I would say, saving shame when it is not necessary, screaming to doctors who said that the conditions you offer are not conducive to their work in Poland: let them go. It wasn't you, it was a friend who was sitting here screaming to young doctors: let them go. The State presents an amendment that may allow for education and will make it possible to stay in Poland. That'd be good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I'd like to ask you about the healthcare providers. This bill is about a list. I would like to ask about the issue of financing in the Żywiecki district, where per inhabitant there is only 200 PLN of this lump sum. It's hard to say it's fair when there's 500 zlotys in the next row, which is more than 100%. More. Do you therefore consider changing the accounting rules? This refers to this amount of PLN 200 for the 2015 analysis. Thank you very much, sir. It's not fair. Is the Ministry going to do something about it and improve the situation in Żywiec? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u286	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to intrude, but you know, you took 40 seconds. It's just a scandalous story. I had to react in principle. [[He humbly accepts Mr. Marshal's words.]] Thank you for your humility. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns the extension of the deadline for applying for medical studies until the end of the 2021/2022 academic year. I ask: Is it not possible to introduce a longer period in relation to the pandemic? It's not like the pandemic's gonna end until then. Of course, we support that, that's a good step. First of all, I would like to emphasise, in agreement with my colleague, who spoke beautifully, with Mr Kowal, that the prestige and respect of doctors, which the current government has questioned many times, should be restored. He disrespected, criticized, and ignored their hard work. We Poles appreciate this and thank them very much, especially in this difficult pandemic. I wanted to point out that we're so short of doctors, we have the smallest doctor conversion per population. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This morning we discussed and asked various questions. I'm gonna do it again because I found a lot more threads. My previous speaker said the loan issue was clear. No, it's not clear. It's not clear, for example. the statement in the explanatory memorandum that the law, this novel, does not entail any financial consequences. I don't think so. That's why the deadline is extended so everyone can make a deposit. So the question is: How many such speeches have there been in previous years? Let's make this the last two years. I think it's worth interesting the maximum number of people willing to take these loans because we need doctors, but not just doctors. That's my second question. There's talk of a medical event. Shouldn't you immediately extend the list of medical professions that should be financed or supported by the State because they are necessary? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, one more sentence. I'm even thinking about psychologists. It wasn't a first-time group, but it is right now. We do not know what the group of students who will have the right to receive these loans will be like before. Are you planning to extend this professional group to these necessary professions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u290	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The bill apparently concerns technical issues. First, it concerns a lump sum for the primary hospital health insurance system based on the 2019 data. But the question is, is this enough system? However, during this period we have rampant inflation, rising prices, especially electricity, gas and other derivatives. Secondly, however, this extraordinary situation varies from one medical facility to another. Is this system sufficient and will protect the functioning of primary healthcare? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask how many students in Poland are currently using loans for medical wells. I'd like a written reply. Are there other support systems for students taking up medical studies? If so, what is it? I also ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please, Michael.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law appeared in the Seym Information System on January 21st. Looks like it's gonna take us five days to complete this bill. Why have we been waiting since the start of the pandemic for legal solutions to check COVID certificates? Why in Poland is it still allowed to lie about pandemics, about vaccines and no responsibility for this? There is no risk of losing a public office that is full, and there is no penalty for it, and there is absolutely nothing at stake for it. Why is COVID-19 still not listed as contagious diseases? Why do you not approach really important matters that could secure tens of thousands of Poles and Poles with such violence and dynamics as this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u295	At the meeting of the Health Committee, an amendment could not be introduced which would provide bank financing for the entire six-year period of study for students applying for credit or already taking credit, because this will be decided by the Minister of Health each year. Such an amendment was not possible. After the discussion with lawyers - I had this idea - I was convinced that this could not be done, because the law on higher education would have to be changed in a fundamental way. A question for the Minister. Shouldn't students be calmed down? They're gonna take credit. That's good. We do not know - and this I add to the question - to what extent from private university and to what extent from public university. The point is to provide them (the bell) that they will have to return it someday, but so that at least by the end of their studies they can hope that they will be credited instead of that so-called. tuition will increase significantly and credit will not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u297	I cannot fully agree with the voice of Mr Kowal and other Members who spoke about the reasons and remedies for the deficit of medical personnel. Unfortunately, the more doctors we train, the more they leave. It's just a natural suction to the west. The cause is economical. Unfortunately, we are unable to outbid Germans, French and English. That's why it's pouring water into a hole bucket. But sometimes even to the poor fool fate will smile, right, the golden meteor falls under his feet. Except instead of picking him up, he's gonna kick him with anger and break his leg. Because what's going on? In Europe, COVID is being implemented in wealthy countries, and it is a vaccinal homicide, which is a huge resistance among doctors. We - instead of saying: listen, here is freedom, here you can come, we invite you to us, to each other - what do we do? With Mr Piecha's mouth we take and dig this golden meteor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u298	Mr Paweł Kowal, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u299	These horrible words to doctors: and let them go, which once fell in this room, will hang over this room until the Minister changes his policy on the fundamental issue, on the security of Poles, so that Poles can count on medical service well paid and professionally for 5, 10, 20 years. Today, Minister, there are vacancies in surgical residency, oncology, emergency medicine. That's the data. What's your strategic plan to change that? This discussion today is an opportunity to ask you this, and you must have a plan for it, because it is your duty to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Bromber, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will now speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And then you, okay? Because that's the card I was given. If you want it now, Mrs... Is that okay? Minister, please. And the rapporteur will wait a moment in her mercy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will answer the part of the questions in which the questions and requests for written explanations were asked in writing. With regard to the provision of benefits in one of the powiats whose name was referred to in one of the questions, of course, issues relating to the new calculation will take place in the case of legislative changes, as we will introduce new arrangements for financing benefits. It is difficult to carry out a detailed comparative analysis per capita. Of course, if this is the case, we will examine the situation of securing health care services in this district. As for what idea you have to encourage young people to study in medical sciences - because this is the topic that most often progressed - I will remind you that Minister Adam Niedzielski presented a package of solutions for young people on Monday at the Medical University in Poznań. In this package, among others. There was talk of a loan to students, about the level of participation in decisions taken, about changes in education standards, about the product: working for a student, about increasing the skills and competences of students. There was also talk of a composition such as a young didactic, because we also want to encourage young didactics, young students to do teaching work. There was also a package related to changes in post-graduate education. Seven elements of the package for young people - these are dedicated elements addressed to young people. This is our way of encouraging young people to study medicine. As regards the question of credit, I would like to remind you that there has been no such formal regulation before. Credits to students in such a formula can be realised since the adoption of this law, and this amendment only extends the deadline, which is a very, very beneficial solution for students. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u302	Thank you very much, Minister. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Violetta Porowska, to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u303	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Let me comment on those voices that have emerged in the framework of the club's opinions and questions. The Minister was kind enough to answer partially. First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly, first of all, for this discussion that took place today on the committee. I took the liberty of using the word that it was constructive, and my colleagues who had spoken before me, also from opposition clubs, also used such words, I would say, to us Members of the applicants of this law, words that confirm that this law was simply needed. It's a change of sense, a change needed, a draft bill going in the right direction. It's a good step, it's a straight bill. Thank you so much for that, because this is how we prepared this bill to respond to the needs of the moment. The first need for a moment is that we noticed that students who wanted to use this money needed this extended time to apply for this student loan. Thank you for your support. We thank you for supporting the solution regarding the recognition of the basis of the 2019 settlement period. There were voices during the discussion that took place just now, whether it was the right security for this year, whether it was the right direction for the second half of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good direction, and this is the direction that was required of the healthcare providers that we, the Members of Law and Justice, have called upon, but I am convinced that all Members in this Seym too. Why? Because the pandemic caused that very many planned benefits did not take place. If we wanted to take the last period as a basis for settlement in this and the next six months, many providers would suffer a lot of losses, because the amount granted to them would be much lower, it would just be much lower, so this is the opposite, it is the solution to the current needs. If we hadn't done it, the providers would have a problem. The committee meeting took place this morning, we debated this morning, and I have already received many signals, many calls from the healthcare providers, that they thank us very warmly, Members, applicants and all Members who attended the committee meeting today. As I say, 64 people voted in favour, one abstention, one against, perhaps entirely by accident, because these records are not controversial. You allowed yourself, during the discussion of this bill, to be diwagited about medical staff, whether it was sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill concerned other issues, but since you have taken up this thread, I, too, wanted to ask what has happened in recent years in this area. In 2007 I was the director of the Opole Centre for Public Health and after data analysis I presented information that the situation was dramatic already in 2007 and that measures had to be taken to increase the number of medical practitioners. It was in 2007. What happened at that time when the authorities held different formations than the Law and Justice? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely nothing. It was in the year in which Law and Justice began to rule, the United Right, that there was finally a realization, not a debate, like you, Mr Kowal, that we were just debating it. We weren't debating, we just started really doing an increase, for example. the number of medical courses in Poland. We're the ones who put in those records. Even this provision on facilitating the financing of medical studies is also being introduced in such a formula, as the Minister said a moment ago. [[Voice from the hall: But you said to go.]] That's what's really happening. We want to take care of the medical staff. We want to increase the medical staff. This is how we want to increase our health insurance. [[It wasn't until six years later that you guys did it.]] But please, we have a calm, good debate, and you can have a discussion or a statement in a minute. Let us ask ourselves: What happened during the governments, and what is happening today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much more medical supplies are there? How much more money is spent? Thank you very much, Member. GDP continues to grow progressively to 7%. It's just now in these years. It's happening. [[Six years later.]] And you can't take that away from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It took you six years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u304	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report on the draft resolution on solidarity with Ukraine; on the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on calling on the Member States of the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union to support Ukraine in the face of the possible aggression of the Russian Federation, print No 1976. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, which had just concluded its deliberations, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Objection.]] Objection to what, sir? [[Mr Marshal, I propose that the parliamentary wheels and parliamentary wheels should be able to present their positions in five minutes' speeches, just like the other parliamentary groups.]] But that's what the Seniors Convention has established, and I would suggest... So, we're gonna vote on this, right? Sir, I will tell you because I remember: Mr, right now, thanks to the brilliant, intelligent and rapid conduct of our deliberations, we have three hours ahead. So I'm saying it's five minutes away. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it is. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we are holding today's deliberations, among others. Thanks to me, it has gone very smoothly and life will not keep up with the time of the session, I declare a break until the hour. 18.15, for all those who would like to speak, among others. on the North Atlantic Pact, the European Union and Ukraine must come to the Chamber. So by the hour. 6:15 p.m. is adjourned. We've been catching up for three hours. Today is the end of my work, so thank you very much for your fantastic cooperation. I wonder if I'll ever get a round of applause. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 04 hours 18 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: I kindly ask Mr Maciej Necessary to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and great pleasure to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on solidarity with Ukraine, on print No 1961, and on the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on calling on the Member States of the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union to support Ukraine in the face of the possible aggression of the Russian Federation, in print No 1962. I am very pleased because, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have successfully combined two prints, the presidial printing and the printing reported by the Left, and based on the presidial printing, we have developed a version that combines all the best in both prints. Fortunately, these ideas proved to be complementary, complementary and as a result of the concerted work of all the members of the committee representing all the political options, a single coherent resolution was created. If I take this opportunity, I'll let myself read it. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on calling on the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union to support Ukraine in the face of the aggression of the Russian Federation. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland is concerned about the actions of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. This activity poses a serious risk of causing armed conflict and destabilising Europe, which undermines the interests of the Republic of Poland. We call on the governments of NATO and the European Union to provide comprehensive support to Ukraine in the face of the war, and for a strong response from the Member States of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to the aggression of the Russian Federation. One expression of the current crisis is the energy pressure of the Russian Federation against and associated with the countries of the European Union. We oppose the launching of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline which breaks down European unity against the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland objects to the policy of the Russian Federation, which is contrary to international law and to the disturbing order and peace in Europe. Experienced history of the 20th century, we consider it our duty - as a Member State of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and of the European Union - to call on our allies and partners to take joint action to address the threat of an armed conflict in Europe. Ukraine is a sovereign, free and democratic state. The integrity of its territory, the integrity of borders and the right to self-determination of the Ukrainian people must not be violated in any way. Ukrainian society has the right to decide its future. Ukraine's path to membership of the European Union and NATO must remain open and its right to accession is undisputed. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the parliaments of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union to take all initiatives aimed at supporting Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u306	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Katarzyna Czochar will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the parliamentary resolution on solidarity with Ukraine and on the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on calling on the Member States of the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union to support Ukraine in the face of the actions and possible aggression of the Russian Federation, print No 1961, 1962. High Izbo! Allow me to read the contents of resolutions, prints no. 1961 and 1962. The Parliament of the Republic of Poland is concerned about the actions of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. This activity poses a serious risk of causing armed conflict and destabilising Europe, which undermines the interests of the Republic of Poland. We call on the governments of NATO and the European Union to provide comprehensive support to Ukraine in the face of the war, and for a strong response from the Member States of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty organisation to the aggression of the Russian Federation. One expression of the current crisis is the energy pressure of the Russian Federation against and associated with the countries of the European Union. We oppose the launching of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline which breaks down European unity against the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland objects to the policy of the Russian Federation, which is contrary to international law and to the disturbing order and peace in Europe. Experienced history of the 20th century, we consider it our duty - as a Member State of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and of the European Union - to call on our allies and partners to take joint action to address the threat of an armed conflict in Europe. Ukraine is a sovereign, free and democratic state. The integrity of its territory, the integrity of borders and the right to self-determination of the Ukrainian people must not be violated in any way. Ukrainian society has the right to decide its future. Ukraine's path to membership of the European Union and NATO must remain open and its right to accession is undisputed. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the parliaments of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union to take all initiatives aimed at supporting Ukraine. High Izbo! Of course, the Law and Justice Club calls for this resolution to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u308	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Paweł Kowal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u309	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it's in history that we don't know which picture is on the manuals. Maybe the one today, with a handful of us here, wondering about a case that is the most important for Poland today. This war, ladies and gentlemen, is already going on. In 2008, the Council The Russians intervened in a sovereign state in Georgia. In 2013, and precisely in 2014, they intervened in the territory of Ukraine and the annexation of parts of Ukraine. International law, which allowed Poles to feel safe for decades, for decades, is raped and broken in front of us. Let's not have any illusions, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is necessary to say this today, looking into the eyes of Poles. It's not a matter of helping, I'd say helping. This is not a matter of helping Ukraine. Of course, we want to help our neighbours, but this case directly concerns Polish interests. This is our case. This case today may be my mother's case, my neighbour, who asked me today in the elevator if there would be a war, people who are taking a tram in Krakow, and those who are traveling somewhere in a bus between small towns. We're all gonna be affected by a lack of action. That is why I would like, because that is the point of this resolution, to call on the government to act and inform the public what it is doing. We're not here to scare Poles with war. We are from this, we as the opposition, to tell the government: how you will act well, we will support you, and to mobilize it every day to correct relations with the United States, with the Germans, with France, so that the Polish President will visit European capitals today and discuss what to do to ensure the security of our part of Europe to restore the rule of law. This is our role, and that's what our resolution is for. That is why we discussed it together today, and that is why we succeeded, thanks to the presence of your Marshal Gosievska, for which I thank you. So I'd like to say a few words to my colleagues at the power camp. We read your e-mails. May God's hand defend you so that you do not think that this is some political gold - this today's fear of war of Poles and this real danger that threatens the Ukrainians, Georgians, Moldovans. I call on the government to use the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Poland is at the head of this organization in this six-month period. Don't waste a minute. And don't be fooled that some kind of war, some kind of violation of international law, some killing of innocent people, some bombing will be somewhere like in a movie, 300, 400, 1,000 kilometers away. How much longer? Look what has happened in the last year and a half, the danger our homeland is facing today. I know it sounds so weird, 'cause I'm pathetic, and it's empty. But today this is the most important issue, apart from the COVID, today we should be discussing this. 30 years ago, 30 years ago and a few months ago we thought there was no Soviet Union, and today we already have Putin almost at the border and our allies often, yes, we have to say this, who hesitate. But for God's sake, our sovereignty is not at stake from Brussels. Don't you see that yet? Our sovereignty is under threat from Moscow. Throw these demons of Le Pen away from Poland, these demons of populism. Tell our Hungarian brothers they're out of line. Because I listen to what the Hungarian Foreign Minister says, and you all hear how he praises the Russian intervention in Kazakhstan. Because we hear what he says, and we look at what Viktor Orbán says. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want a Russian power loop around your neck? That's our job together today. Marshal, I'm almost done, last sentence. It will be a call to unity. Go ahead and finish it. Thank you again, thank you, Mark Kuchciński. It's rare for you guys to give us an opportunity to write something together. But now we have to do something together. Our job is not to scare Poles. Our job is to... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, sir. ...prepare for the wrong scenarios. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr President, we were not to involve our internal affairs in this debate, I remind you, that is what we agreed. [[Your marshal, I said...]] And Nord Stream 2 is not responsible for Hungarians, not other countries, but friends with Germany. [[Applause]] I remind you, Chancellor Merkel... Mr President, let us respect each other. [[Your marshal, I told you from my heart how I felt. You know I'm right.]] Here you are, Mr Maciej Necessary on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Russian Federation's strong policy is to fully subjugate Ukraine, to make Ukraine a vassal country towards the Kremlin, to deny the pro-Western aspirations of Ukrainian society, to prevent Ukraine from integrating into the structures of the West, to prevent Ukrainian society from choosing the path of Western European democracy. I am therefore very pleased that in this joint resolution, written by all clubs and circles that participated in the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there was a paragraph from the Left project. This paragraph states that our role as a Polish parliament is to speak loudly about the fact that Ukrainian society has the right to choose its way, the way of its country. It must be said out loud that the road to the European Union must be open to Ukrainians that Ukrainians have the right to choose the path of integration with Western Europe and Western Europe must be open to them. This is our role as Poles, this is the role we must play in the European Union. Our voice must be the one who will be our Western partners - often less willing to complain about the Ukrainian brothers - he admonished, urged, and sometimes forced them to leave the door open for the Ukrainians. This is the rate of this conflict. Russia does not seek war for war. We have to remember that. We must remember that the peace, the price of which will be the full submission of Ukraine to the Russians, the peace which Europe signs with the Kremlin over the heads of the Ukrainians, selling them in reality to the Russian Federation, is not the peace that we are able to accept. We must do everything we can to avoid war, we must do everything we can to avoid the victory of Russia's power policy, we must ensure and maintain Ukraine's independence and independence and the right to self-determination of the Ukrainian people. This situation shows that the world has become less secure and very close to our borders. This situation shows how important European solidarity is to us, how important it is to put Poland firmly in European structures. I am very pleased that this resolution contains a passage on our opposition, a clear joint opposition to the operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Launching the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is an obvious violation of the principles of European solidarity. Launching this pipeline in the future will also pose a threat to Poland and the Polish society. In this increasingly dangerous world, in the face of external threats, in the face of Russia's power policy, we need - perhaps, in our case, a solidarity Europe with one voice. This means that we need further European integration, in which Poland will play a key role. In today's polarized world, we just can't afford to argue with our partners, we can't afford to fight in the European field, we can't afford to choose our key alliances with our biggest partners, based on exotic coalitions. Mrs. Marshal! Unfortunately, these words must also be said here. We cannot afford Polish foreign policy to be based on an alliance with uncertain, weak Hungarians, and the policy of the Polish party ruling on alliances with proputinist populist parties such as the Le Pen party or Mr Salvini party. It's just a threat to our safety. Therefore, as we speak today with one voice on this threat, with one voice we are asking for Ukrainians, Ukrainians and their right to choose their own future, their own fate, so we must ask for Polish foreign policy to be a policy that favours European integration to be a policy that is translated into Europe. We agree that we should be a lawyer for Ukraine and Ukrainians in Europe, but for this to work, our voice in Europe must matter. This is the element that unfortunately lacks today, which is why I would like to appeal to the Polish Government - because the appeal which the Polish Sejm accepts is addressed to the governments of the countries of the European Union and NATO, and thus also to the Polish Government - directly and directly to put aside the guerrilla disputes dictated by Minister Ziobra (Dawn) and chose what is most important for Polish politics. At this point, we need a solidarity and united Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u312	Yes, sir, and support for Nord Stream 2. Right? Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is so unique and so difficult that it is beyond our imagination, our thinking. Probably many of us met Ukrainians, Belarusians and Russians present in Poland today. We spoke friendlyly with them, and we do not really imagine that armed intervention is possible, that peace, stability of the people of Ukraine may be violated. That is probably not what Russians or other nations want in the vast majority. It's 2022, 21st century. Almost 77 years have passed since the end of World War II. It was a long time of peace, a time of development. There's been so many beautiful changes, and it's all kind of ruined. It started some years earlier, we know Crimea, Donbas. In my opinion, all this has brought too little reflection, not enough thought, to work for all of us in Europe and also in Poland, because the last Polish-Ukrainian relationships could have been better. Therefore, I think that this attempt to establish the right new rules, the new division by President Putin is causing great concern, huge opposition, and we all, like most nations in Europe, must definitely act to stop this unimaginable evil. We are somewhat opposed to this kind of submission, which is on the pretext of commercial, economic relations, to Putin's actions; business connections that do not go hand in hand with the interests of peace-making. Because we understand business interests, business interests, but there are higher values. Hence all experienced - especially Poland, but also the whole Europe - these great consequences, these experiences, which were connected with the Second World War, with the past, with socialism... I think we enjoyed this period, our achievements, our peace, our development, as I said at the outset, when it comes to asking ourselves the fundamental question: What next? Hence, it seems advisable that this appeal should be addressed to all Europeans, but also to the world, because only joint action and joint opposition... It is important to enjoy this unity, which is within the North Atlantic Pact or within the European Union, which is influenced by these measures threatening peace in Europe. That is why we need solidarity and preparation, including Poland, to provide assistance, which Ukraine will probably need, humanitarian aid, such a human. I think that such an opening, showing the heart can fix or restore these good relations, that it can also restore relations between all peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, including the Russian people. Because you have to look at the Russian people differently, or those who direct (the bell) Russia, who try to impose a certain order that doesn't serve anyone. Therefore, it is so important that Poland follows these beautiful values of assistance, peace and mutual support that are needed by our neighbours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u314	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 5 or 6 years ago I was a participant in the panel on the forum of Europe - Ukraine devoted to Ukraine's presence or future in NATO. I was the only one in this panel who said that a country which has such a powerful border conflict with Russia as the issue of Crimea, that a country in whose territory the fights are taking place, as in Donbas, I added, of course, from the Polish perspective, that a country which has military units with ties with flagships, that such a country will not be accepted into NATO in the context of years, even decades, and that the Ukrainians defended themselves in 2014, in the sense of halting the Russian offensive, and that they must be aware of it. All the other participants in this panel, of course, told us what the prospects are in front of Ukraine in NATO. I was the only one who said that Ukraine's prospects in NATO for many years, or maybe even a decade, are gone and will not be, because that is the reality of Western politics. After this debate he approached me, ladies and gentlemen, one of the listeners on the Ukrainian side and said: you were the only one who told us bitter, but the truth, what is the reality, what is the situation, how it really looks that at the end of the day we will be on our own. Because it is true that the determination of the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian army, the strength of this country and the level of responsibility of political elites depends primarily on whether Ukraine falls victim to the Russian invasion today or not. This science must also be learned in Poland. It is not as you have said or suggested that Viktor Orbán has put an energy loop around our necks. No, sir, this was done by German Chadeks with German social democrats such as Schröder, together with Moscow, with the Kremlin, with the Russian Federation, with the complete helplessness of the European Union, in which they have such powerful influence. This was done by the administration of the liberal-democratic Joe Biden, who withdrew any sanctions and who also rejected democrats, recently voting in the Senate. That's the truth. No one will die for Ukraine, no one will die for Poland, and Russian invasion of Ukraine or Central Europe is possible, among others. Because they are. Nord Streamy, because it won't block gas transmissions and it's clear and obvious. Here we have an absolute deal of Western structures, sir, with the Russian Federation. The proposal for Poland is one, very simple, very concrete. You want a room? Get ready for the war. A quick, radical reform of the army, an increase in the strength of the Polish army, this is the way out, it is the only sure guarantee of Polish security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u316	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will perform in the second part of the time available to the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u317	I'll admit I'm having trouble putting the case we have here in this declaration. Unfortunately, our entire foreign policy is based on calling someone to do something that we believe is important to us. It's a policy based on the principle: let's take it, let's do it. Unfortunately, in the long term, doomed to failure. It is not possible to conduct an effective policy through mere appeals. Calling others may be complementary to a policy of our own, but it cannot be the only tool, and unfortunately we also have exactly that policy towards Russia. In my opinion, it is better not to say anything at times than to speak on the basis of: Brussels, help, Brussels, sanctions. All we have to say in this escalator ladder is a complaint to Brussels, Berlin, Washington, and there's absolutely nothing we can do alone. If we continue to leverage ourselves with the European Union and NATO, and in any of these bodies, ultimately, the voice is not ours, then we become an object, a pushover. We become dependent on others, and no wonder they communicate over our heads afterwards. If you keep calling out to your older brother for help in the event of a conflict, you'd better get along with that big brother, why bother with that little brother. If we want the Ukrainians to see us as allies, we can't just be a middleman on our way to Brussels, because then they'll call themselves in Brussels and we'll have nothing to talk about. As part of the escalation, we have to play with cards that we ourselves have in our hands, or we just don't play at all. In the Confederacy, we do not have full agreement on how to react in this situation. I am rather among those who believe that it is better to fight in Ukraine with Russia than later on my own, but we certainly agree that our policy must be sovereign. Whether quietly and secretly or loudly and ostentatiously (the bell) - we need to pursue politics with our own tools, not just with appeals to Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Zalewski on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for working on this document and for preparing, at a rapid, short time in my opinion, a good text, which is very important, which expresses the seriousness and position of the Sejm, which we should do on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it like when a peaceful country stands in the way of a great power? What is it like when mothers, wives, children begin to fear for the health and life of their sons, husbands, and fathers? What is it like when cemeteries begin to overlap with black graves with simple soldiers' crosses? Surely you have to go to Ukraine to see this, because this is a picture of Ukraine since 2014. We, Poles, know this story, know these fates from the history of our families and do not need to tell us this story. I am so convinced that in some sense Ukraine repeats the route that Poland has crossed, fighting for its freedom, independence. Why did Ukraine, a country so deeply experienced by World War II, become a victim of Russian aggression? Is it because he threatened Russia, the Russians? No, because it threatens the corrupt, autocratic Kremlin elite supported by China, it's very important. The war in Ukraine began when during the revolution of the Ukrainian dignity at the turn of 2013 and 2014 they started fighting not only for their independence and began to base their national identity not only on ethnic issues, but above all because then they adopted values that are closest to us, which in some sense have been forming for many, many years Poles, values today called European, such as democracy and the rule of law. They created a revolution just to make Ukraine independent thanks to democracy and the rule of law. Russia attacked Ukraine 6 years ago, and today, seeing Ukrainian success, seeing that these values are building a nation that is starting to regenerate, it wants to defeat this nation. Why? Because the example of this nation, because an example of this success, because the example of cooperation, opening up to the West can be a threat to the Kremlin garter itself. And that is an important reason why the Kremlin - not Russia and not the Russians - wants to destroy democracy, the Ukrainian rule of law. This fight does not only take place in Ukraine, it is taking place throughout Europe. She in Europe is not armed as in Ukraine or there is no threat of a great conflict - it is a fight at the ballot box. But whether with autocrats, Kremlin agents in Europe, we fight at the ballot box or the Ukrainians fight in Donbass, but they may also be preparing for a serious war, this is exactly the same fight. And that's why we should help the Ukrainians, our brothers. That's what the resolution's about. A nation that believes that it is worth giving life for democracy, for freedom, for rule of law, is worth it and will never be defeated. Therefore, we are looking at the 6 year old fight of the Ukrainians with the Russian resistance and what is happening today, with great respect and admiration. That's why we want to help the Ukrainians. May David win against Goliath again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Coming through, ladies and gentlemen, to your questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. You still wanted it, didn't you? I take it it's been added? Then the first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u321	Dear Marshal! The war in Ukraine is here. You can't forget that. This Russian aggression, focused on the strangulation of the Ukrainian state, aimed at depriving the people of Ukrainian independence, is taking place in the shadow of current events. She destroys the Ukrainian state, tries to destroy the Ukrainian state and deprive the Ukrainians of independence. But we must remember that many Ukrainian citizens have chosen Poland for the workplace. Some of them started a family, built a house, maybe chose Poland for their second homeland. Many Ukrainian citizens have also chosen my city, Bielsko-Biała, to the place of their lives. And today from the High House let hot words of support flow to all Ukrainian citizens. We in Poland, as few as anyone, seem to understand the desire for freedom. We understand the desire for independence of nations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will be your friends who will claim your cause and support you in defense of an independent state. We warmly wish Ukraine to be an independent state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u323	One of President Putin's strategies is to create tensions between the European Union and the United States, within the European Union. That is why this call today and the Left, and the committee, is very much needed, because it is involved in the single policy of the European Union and the United States as regards the conflict in Ukraine. There's still a chance military confrontation won't happen. Because there is a chance, the more valuable this initiative is that we, as a neighbour of Ukraine, are involved in this, into uniformity. And we don't know if if there's a conflict, it's just going to be a conflict. Kharkiv, or just the preservation of the spoils, or in the context of the sentiments (the bell) of the Soviet Soviet Union, the Soviet bloc, maybe even in the past it would be Poland. We have to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u324	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Freedom is not given once and for all. I agree with Mr Paul Kowal that the issue of the territorial integrity of Ukraine is also our concern. The Poles and Poles. How the Polish government will communicate with our citizens on this issue is also a matter of building civil responsibility for our relations with Ukraine. It was in this spirit that participants of the Remembrance Meeting from Gniezno, the first capital of Poland, called on the Russian Federation to stop this prepared aggression. This is so that together Russians, Ukrainians, Poles, Europeans (The Bell) can live in peace. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u326	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy with this joint resolution, because it concerns us, it concerns Poland. Joint resolution on support of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, through the aggressive actions of Russia, Europe is on the verge of armed conflict, once again. It began in 2008, when the Russian troops attacked Georgia, occupied a large part of its territory: southern Ossetia, Abkhazia, then in 2014 Donetsk region, Lugansk region, Donbas. Today we face an even greater threat. On the border with Ukraine, the Russians concentrate their troops. According to NATO military intelligence, there are up to 170 thousand. soldiers with a full offensive weaponry. And the target of the Russians is not Nord Stream 2 (The Bell), as some politicians, especially the ruling party, try to convince us, is only political and economic instability of Ukraine. Because Russia is afraid of an independent pro-Russian Ukraine. I ask what actions the Polish government takes. Thank you, Member. Why aren't we sending help? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u328	Member, time is up. I'm so sorry. Let's respect each other. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Less attacks, more substantive questions. But it's not for you, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ukraine is a sovereign, free and democratic state. The integrity of its territory, the integrity of borders and the right to self-determination of the Ukrainian people must not be violated in any way. Such a beautiful resolution of our Sejm must follow the actions of Polish diplomacy. The actions of Polish diplomacy must be based on the fact that we are in 2022 a country which presides over the OSCE. The intention of Poland should be to play the role of an honest intermediary and mediator between the parties concerned. The Ukrainian conflict and its resolution depend to a large extent on the actions of Polish diplomacy. We count on the activities of Polish diplomacy very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u330	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We are faced with a very difficult situation. I think we can compare it to 1938. And I'd like to be wrong about that comparison. I hope there's still time to talk. It is good that we are making such a resolution, but I would not agree with all the speakers or Members of the High House. What did Putin do? The biggest player in the European Union is Germany and this is indisputable. Putin tied the Germans. Look, if we find out that helping the Germans for Ukraine is 5,000. helmets, it's a shame. But can they afford any other help? No, because they're connected to the gas issue. That's the truth. And this is the biggest player in the European Union. That's true, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know the Croatians are saying they're about to show up, and we don't know what the Turks are gonna do. The resolution is needed, but the situation is extremely complicated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u333	Since one of the previous speakers has put a thread in the threat of sovereignty by Russia and by the European Union, I must refer to this. Mr Kowal has presented an alternative that it is not the Union, but Russia that is a threat to our sovereignty. Unfortunately, this is a false alternative, i.e. one doesn't rule out another, unfortunately. Of course, Russia seems to be a threat to our independence, our sovereignty, peace on our lands, but the European Union here and now devours our sovereignty, i.e. In fact, we sell it through our treacherous politicians, but in any case the European Union forbids us to cut down trees in our own forest, it is the European Union that closes our mine or blackmails us with our own money, it is the European Union that does not allow us, for example. lower VAT below a certain level, even if we all in Poland would like to. You say that Russia is fighting a hybrid war against Poland, but the European Union is also fighting a hybrid war against Poland, consistently posting Polish authorities, blackmailing us with our own money, supporting us financially various opposition subversive movements, some rainbow revolution. One, unfortunately, does not exclude the other and cannot be covered by the Russian threat that the European Union, here and now, our independence, is devouring our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u334	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There are few things that connect us, and I would like to see this House flowing from this debate today, but also during the vote one message: free Poland for free Ukraine, which can decide about itself and its European and Euro-Atlantic future. Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, is in an emergency right now. Her security is at stake, her territorial integrity is at risk. And all possible formats must be used: NATO, the European Union, the OSCE, parliamentary assemblies, including the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and inter-parliamentarians: committee, Ukraine, NATO, in order to make a clear message. We're on the Ukraine, shoulder to shoulder (the bell), and we should do everything we can to remove the Russian invasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak She signed up, too. I don't know, there's no name on the list, but I saw the report before closing the list. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution is very much needed. We need to express our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, the oppressed people. Now the whole world hears such a message from Russia that Ukraine is guilty. Ukraine cannot be broken and has shown its strength many times. Let us remember the year 1932, the year 1933, when it was to be overcome with hunger, great Ukrainian hunger. The great famine in Ukraine, the artificial famine caused by the Russians to break the Ukrainians because they refused to submit to collectiveization. They're not going to give up now, even if Putin and his crew cheat that it's the Ukrainians who want war. They don't want to. And we don't want that for them either. We want freedom for them and all that this nation deserves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u338	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like once again to thank all the parliamentarians involved in the work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their very substantive work on the joint draft resolution, but also regret that this great atmosphere from the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not been fully transferred to the plenary room. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 26 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the suspension of new contracts for the implementation of gas connections by the Polish Gas Company. For a long time, information from local residents has been received from the parliamentary office, but also from local authorities saying that Poland's Gazownictwo Company refuses gas connections. The company informed about this fact in the middle of the month, arguing with strong interest in the connections while the funds were running out for this purpose. As the company admits in its press release: A great interest in connecting to the gas network caused that investment funds for the years 2022 to 2023 were fully reserved for the implementation of already concluded connection agreements and the Polish Gas Company does not currently have sources of funding for subsequent connection investments. The gas boiler is one of the most popular sources of heat in Polish houses, as confirmed by data from the Central Register of Building Emissivity. The gas solutions are also targeted by the beneficiaries of the "Clean Air' scheme. According to the data on November 30th, UB. 44% applications in the programme concerned the installation of a condensing gas boiler. It is currently the most popular heat source in the universal process of exchanging inefficient heating and thermomodernization devices. As a result, in voivodships which, under local anti-smog resolutions, have legally blocked the possibility of installing heat sources for solid fuels, neither any heat source for solid fuels nor natural gas can be installed. This applies both to individual residents who are at the stage of designing and building their home and face the dilemma of choosing a heating source, as well as to self-governments carrying out the construction of important public utility facilities such as daycare, kindergartens, which is said to be denied when it comes to connection of gas installations. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on the Minister responsible to take appropriate action to unlock these investments, which are an opportunity for the development of especially young people (the Bell) building their own homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u340	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In May 2020, a team of scientists and engineers from the Bydgoszcz University of Technology led by Professor Tomasz Topoliński built and presented a unique Polish respirator designed for COVID patients. The Bydgoszcz ventilator turned out to be a Polish product that saved the lives of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2, which has a chance to enter Polish and European medical markets. Thanks to the financial support provided by the Deputy Minister for Science and Higher Education in 2020, Prof. Wojciech Maximowicz, for whom once again the Minister, I thank the Member, has produced 10 prototypes of this device for research purposes. In 2020, the respirator was introduced to the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of Science, Deputy Minister of National Defence, who provided support for their production. Researching Bydgoszcz prototypes, a team of outstanding professors and scientists consisting of, among others, from national consultants in the field of anesthesiology, intensive care and in the field of defence confirmed that the Polish ventilator is equal to foreign ventilators currently used in Polish hospitals, and in some functions it is better. Professional estimates indicate that the Polish ventilator produced under the conditions of serial production will be cheaper than respirators of well-known foreign companies. Experts also argue that thanks to the application of modern technological solutions by the Bydgoszcz University of Technology, it should be competitive against other ventilators, and not only on the Polish medical market. However, since prototypes were still prototypes in December of last year after 1.5 years, on 30 December I sent a question to Prime Minister Morawiecki about the government's effects on launching the production of respirators. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education and Science, in agreement with the Minister of Health, wrote that members of the government know Polish prototypes, that, like specialists, they have a very good opinion about them, but so far production has unfortunately not moved. Prime Minister! Poland cannot afford to waste inventions and waste the potential of Polish scientists, which is why I appeal from the Seym stand to the Prime Minister's personal involvement in the production of Polish respirators and to the personal patronage of the President of the Council of Ministers of the question of speeding up research and leading to the start of production. I am convinced that the authority of the Prime Minister will improve the coordination of interministerial activities and increase the chance for the next success of Poland: medical, scientific and economic bell. We would all like the best and cheapest ventilators in Polish health care units. Thank you. That is why I am appealing from this point of view and I am counting on the Prime Minister's response and the acceleration of government action in this area. Thank you very much. And here's the answer I got... Okay, sir, you have completed your statement. ...that these are better and cheaper ventilators than the respirators currently used in hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u342	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Next Sunday, an important event. I think the generosity of the heart, the generosity of the heart are the qualities that should be on that day. To guide all of us. 30. The finale of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. I strongly encourage all parliamentarians to participate regardless of which side of the room they are sitting on, because providing the highest standards of diagnosis and vision treatment in children is, I think, a cross-party goal. Let's support him. That's a very good goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u344	Thank you, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u345	High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday she died the tragic death of Mrs. Agnieszka of Częstochowa. A 37-year-old woman who was pregnant with defects died because she did not receive due medical care, and this was due to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you now to the family's position on this matter. My name is Violetta Paciepnik. I'm the twin sister of the late Agnes of Czestochowa. My sister died in the hospital after spending over a month there. She was pregnant with a twin. When one fetus died in December, Agnes' husband, and my brother-in-law, begged the doctors to save his wife, even at the cost of pregnancy. Agnieszka wore a dead fetus for a week until the second one died. Both were recovered two days after their death. All this time your sister was feeling very unwell, she had elevated CRP, which is an indicator of inflammation in your body. On January 25th, my sister died. Until the end, I was hoping he'd make it. I can't believe what happened. You go to the hospital to get help, not to die. If you're pregnant, you should have even better care. My sister spent Christmas at the hospital, and I said goodbye to her at the last minute until she went out. We really need justice, and we're gonna be looking for it. We filed a complaint with the patient's attorney and a complaint with the prosecution. We want to honor the memory of my beloved sister and protect other women in Poland from similar fate. More detailed information will be provided at the press conference no earlier than Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I must say two words about the fact that we know very well that this is not the last death of a woman as a result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Today, at the meeting of the Health Committee, we discussed the cause of the death of Mrs Isabella of Pszczyna. We didn't really learn anything, because the ruling party primarily cares about protecting the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, not women from death. You also died of Świdnica a few months ago. How much longer will women in Poland die as a result of bad law? How long will the Polish state allow women who are pregnant to carry this pregnancy with dignity (the bell) and in case of problems they will receive appropriate medical care? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u346	Maybe as long as the doctors can't take care of it... [[What are you saying?!]] ...sometimes at the right level to guarantee, Madame. [[I didn't understand what you said.]] I said that maybe until all doctors are able to secure proper care for a pregnant woman, the Member. [[And do you know that women haven't died before and now they're dying?]] They never died, yes, of course. [[Women didn't die of pregnancy once, and now they're dying, and please...]] Madame, not the Constitutional Court, but, unfortunately, the lack of professional medical care often. [[The doctors in Poland were very good, and now suddenly...]] But, Member, good. A further statement will be made by Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club. And let's not use other people's misfortune to do their own politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday 24 January, a crew strike began at Solaris plants, which successfully produces city buses and makes substantial profits, including PLN 100 million for 2020. At the same time, all over Poland, we observe inflation, energy price increases, high prices in shops, interest rates increases resulting in increased loan instalments. The salaries paid for the work do not belong to the highest, even production workers with a long-term internship receive here approx. $3,000. zł. Trade unionists from the Labour Confederation and Solidarity Confederation have been discussing with the company authorities since autumn last year, demanding an increase of PLN 400 per month for all for 2021 and PLN 400 per month for 2022, jointly and severally for all employees with the same amounts. In response to these demands, the company granted an increase of PLN 270 to everyone and higher for specialists and managers. No wonder the strike referendum supported 92% voters. The general strike is in progress. It is no wonder that people who earn profits for a company that manufactures products that the company sells with a profit of PLN 100 million a year are asking for a fair share of these profits. It is not surprising that during rising prices, workers want to go home after hard work with a living salary, not just to survive. There is nothing surprising about the fact that plant crews are organizing themselves to fight together and jointly for their right to participate in the earned profit and influence on the work place in which they work and on which they work. The answer to these problems is strike. Every strike started and won is another example of the strength of the workforce and a signal to people who benefit from the work of others that the time of exploitation is passing and you will need to get used to a fair distribution of profits. Each strike started is a fight for common rights to decent earnings, fair distribution of profits, trade union rights and strike rights. This is the greatest power and the greatest beauty of solidarity - in understanding that while fighting for our rights, we are also fighting for the rights of all employees and employees of all plants. And only solidarity and patience will give us victory. That is why I encourage everyone to support the strike fund because the strike continues to win. We'll remember that when Solaris' crew announces the end of the strike successfully, which I'm sure of. Fingers crossed for this strike and greetings to all strikers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u348	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Monday at the time. The workers' strike began at Solaris' plant 6 a.m. The strike has already taken three days. At the moment, he's on a 90-percent strike. the crew of all the factories, and the production of buses completely stopped. The strike has been the result of a collective dispute in Solaris' plant over the years on how to grant increases. Trade unionists do not want to agree to the percentage increases that managers will benefit most from, not the number of employees. And despite the fact that the unions had repeatedly made concessions and were ready to compromise, the company's authorities remained deaf to the dialogue and there was no agreement. Solaris is a European leader in electromobility in the public transport sector. Despite the pandemic and crisis, the profits of the company are very high. The workers don't expect miracles. They expect them to be able to participate honestly in these profits. Several hundred zloty raises are the absolute minimum of what they have a right to expect. In the Third Republic of Poland, in a country which was created on the shoulders of workers who strike, private sector strikes are extremely rare. In a way, it is the failure of this country. Polish law is extremely restrictive in this respect, and the illegal fight against trade unions is widespread. We've had some loud cases of Amazon and MBank lately. I would like to express my admiration and support for those who strike in Solaris. Conducting an effective wage strike requires great courage, great determination and solidarity. The employees of Solaris, among whom the trade unionists of Solidarity and the Labour Confederation from Monday have had courage and determination. And I'd like to say hello from the Seymary Speaker to the Solaris crew on strike. The whole of Poland is looking at these bets today, as she looked at Paroc a few months ago. The winning Solaris strike will be a great victory for the organized world of work. It will give us hope and strength for employees of small and large plants in Poland. The decision to strike is always a last resort. It is decided by workers when all other opportunities for dialogue and compromise fall. And it is for employees, which should be remembered, very risky. It happens that the company's bosses try to take them out for a while, doesn't pay their wages, and tries to starve the strikers in a way. That's why our support is so important. I strongly encourage you to support financial strikers through contributions to the solidarity strike fund. How they can be supported are informed by the Labour Confederation's OPZZ and Solidarity Confederation. I believe this strike can work. I hope that more words of support for Solaris' employees will come from this Parliamentary Speaker today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u350	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There has been a wage strike in the Solaris plant in Wielkopolska for 3 days. Employees demand a raise of 800 PLN for everyone. Together, trade unionists from the Confederation of Labour and Solidarity strike hand in hand. Despite the excellent financial situation of the company, record profits and huge financial reserves, Solaris does not want to accept fair increases. Instead, the company offers a lot for managers and scraps for workers who really produce buses on the hall. Not much, Solaris is refusing access to the union management company and trade union lawyers against the law. Members and Members together support workers who are on strike. We demand Solaris to comply with the law. We demand that the management of the company sit down with the unionists at the table and agree to a fair distribution of the company's profits. The victory of this strike is in the interests of all Polish workers. Polish workers do not work worse than German or Spanish workers. Employers in the West are neither better nor more generous than Polish. The employers in the West pay more because they know that they have in front of organized workers, workers organized in trade unions who will not hesitate to strike if necessary. It's about time we had a similar situation in Poland. Therefore, the Solaris strike, like the earlier winning strike at Paroc, is more than just a fight within one plant. It is a fight for European labour standards and wages throughout Poland. The victory of this strike really depends on a lot. Therefore, I strongly encourage everyone to support the strikers. Solaris wants to take the protesting workers hungry. Let's not let that happen. Support the strike fund. Workers' solidarity is our weapon. You will find information about the collection on the website and social media of the Confederation of Labour. Greetings to the striking Solaris crew. Hang in there. To victory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u352	Thank you very much. The next statement will be given by Adrian Zandberg, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u353	High Izbo! When we talk here, about 1,000. workers in Solaris plant in Bolechow, but also in other smaller plants spread across Wielkopolska, are fighting for decent wages. There is an important thing that is worth saying in this House, because, together, trade unionists from OPZZ and Solidarity strike there. The entire crew is begging for a share of profits, a share of profits that are large. Solaris is a company that is doing great, which is a leader in its market, which sells buses to many, many countries across Europe. This activity is built on the work of these workers. They are the co-authors of this success and the very high profits Solaris is making for the Spanish corporation, the Spanish concern of which it is part. Unfortunately, this company does not want to share these profits with the workers. He didn't want to talk seriously about the raises, he didn't want to take the union seriously, and he led this stubbornly to a general strike, which at this point continues in all Solaris plants in Wielkopolska. The owners of the Spanish corporation told their employees that they wouldn't get paid that the strike would be broken by starvation, to say the least. I think what we should oppose this cynical decision is solidarity, but not the one written from a big letter, but from a small letter. It's the solidarity of ordinary people who have been paying money for the strike fund for the last two days, for the help fund for the workers of Solaris, for the fund that allows this strike to win. I'm sure of it. I was at a plant in Bolechow two days ago, ladies and gentlemen, and I saw a completely outrageous thing. Lawyers from the union were not allowed into the workplace. Representatives of the union headquarters, to which the workers who strike there, were not allowed to enter the workplace. The unionists were not allowed in with help, with legal assistance, with organizational assistance. This is an obvious omission by the owner with the applicable law in Poland. I think it would be worth reminding the owners of this company that Polish labour law is clear about the fact that such isolation of strikers is simply not allowed. We, as Members of the Council, will, of course, ask the labour inspection to call the owners of this company to order, but I think it is worth it also in this House that such actions undermine the freedom of workers to organise themselves in trade unions and there is no acceptance for them in free democratic Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Club Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, the meeting of the Polish-Hungarian Parliamentary Group saw an initiative of a new form of popularization of excellent relations between the two countries. One of the ideas proposed was to hold a historical competition for pupils of secondary and upper secondary schools. Incredibly pleased is the fact that the organizers of the contest Mon. Poland - Hungary, the history of friendships have been two very important institutions: the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation im. Wenceslas Felczak and the Eastern Studies Institute Foundation. The patronage over the competition was taken by the Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek. The aim of the competition is to take care of the spiritual and material heritage of the history of Polish-Hungarian relations, in particular to highlight and honor friendship between the two European nations, to develop historical interests of participants, to arouse the desire to learn the history of Polish-Hungarian relations, to convey the importance of Polish-Hungarian traditions to the next generations, to commemorate the memory of people outstanding and deserved for Poland and Hungary. The first contest covers the Middle Ages: Polish-Hungarian relations between the 14th and mid-15th centuries, the years 1320 and 1444, the period from the wedding of Elżbieta Łokietkówna with Karol Robert, the king of Hungary, through the relationship of both countries during the reign of Kazimierz Wielki, Louis Hungarian, Jadwiga, Władysław Jagiełła, to the defeat of Władysław Warneńczyk near Warna. The selected thematic scope allows students of all classes to take part in the competition. Participants of the competition may be public and private secondary schools and pupils of existing upper secondary schools. By 4 February, schools may submit their wish to participate in the competition on the pages of their respective curatoria. At the moment, the number of participants from all over Poland has already exceeded 2 thousand. persons. For my part, I would like to ask all heads of secondary and secondary schools, history teachers, to encourage students to take part in this first nationwide historical competition organized to highlight and honor the friendship between the two European nations, whose relationship was already started in the time of St. Stefan and Lives I and continues to this day. Contacts between Poland and Hungary connect over 1000 years of history. It is a history of friendship and brotherhood of two different, though similar nations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u356	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A January uprising broke out 159 years ago. Although lost, it prepared the ground for independence movements and regaining freedom in 1918. To this day, the ethos of the uprising live in the consciousness of Poles, including inhabitants of the arched land and the faithful diocese of the village. It was in Lukow that he lived, served God and people as one of the greatest heroes of the uprising - Fr. Stanisław Brzóska. In this town, as a vicar in a sniper church, he preached patriotic sermons, joined in organizing demonstrations. For his work, the words addressed to the government and the Tsar army were arrested and sent to the fortress in Zamość. After a year's stay, he returned to Łukow and continued to work as a conspiracy. On the night of the uprising at the head of a branch also consisting of townsfolk and peasants, he attacked Russian troops stationed in the city. Later, Fr. Brzóska participated in the uprising as a chaplain in Valentine Lewandowski's department. He participated in numerous battles and skirmishes: under Siemiatics, Gręzówka, Róża and Stanin. He was appointed Chief Chaplain of the Insurgent Army and General. A place that is still associated with the guerrilla mission, the unrecognized hiding place of Fr. Brzóski, there's the under-the-league forest complex of Jata. In 1865, as a result of treason, he was captured along with his faithful adjutant Franciszek Wilczyński to the end and hung on the market in Sokołów Podlaski on 23 May 1865 in the presence of 10 thousand. The people who kneeled before him, not before the killer, the Moscals. His last words were goodbye, brothers and sisters, and you little children. Gina for free Poland. The biography presented in short is an excellent scenario for the film. Recently, a feature film initiative has been launched. The director and screenwriter Mr Tadeusz Syka took up this work. The village diocese was also invited to cooperate. From this point of view, I ask for financial support for this work not only of the faithful diocese, but of all whom the figure of Fr. The Brzóski is close, also state institutions and local governments. I believe that on the 160th anniversary of the uprising there will be a film premiere, and on the anniversary of death there will be a museum of Fr. The bellies. [[Applause]] We owe him that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no need to convince anyone of the importance of voluntary firefighters in society. Unfortunately, there is a situation where their functioning is disturbed or even prevented. This is due to the fact that the participation of voluntary firefighters in the national fire-fighting system generates additional costs for local authorities. As a result, as shown by the NIK report, only 30% of the existing volunteer fire department units in Poland are fully prepared to participate in rescue operations. This means that their members are properly equipped, trained, insured and medically tested. What about the other units? They often look for funding from other sources. An example may be a voluntary fire brigade unit from the street. A rural town in Jelenia Góra, which found funds for the purchase of a specialized quad for rescue operations in the civic budget. The task was chosen by the voters themselves, but the purchase failed. Firefighters blamed the local government, the town of Jelenia Góra. According to them, the local government was slow to implement the tendering procedure. Finally, the tender was not settled until October and the company selected in it did not deliver the vehicle by the end of the year. This was due to problems related to COVID. The vehicle arrived in Poland at the beginning of January 2022, i.e. a few days after the deadline resulting from the regulations of the Civic Budget of Jelenio Góra. It requires that the implementation of the task financed from this envelope be completed in a given calendar year, although this is contrary to the budget law. The city also did not benefit from the provision in the contract with the supplier of quada, in which it is allowed to extend the purchase in case of delays caused by the pandemic. The situation described shows the problems that voluntary firefighters must face. Their functioning is often uncertain and lacks solid foundations. We should all consider how to improve their financial condition, their living condition, so that they can continue to care for the safety of the inhabitants and their property. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u360	Thank you, sir. A further statement will be made by Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, Sejmik Województwo Śląskiego, led by the absolutely obedient party PiS Marshal Jakub Chełstowski, called on President Andrzej Duda to establish a new holiday: the national day of commemoration of the so-called. The Silesian uprising. The Polish plebiscite, which was executed in March 1921 under the Versailles Treaties on the Upper Silesian part, was defeated by Poland with a percentage of 40:60 votes. As a result, during the night from 2 to 3 May an armed struggle broke out then and throughout the whole period of the Second Polish Republic - for diplomatic reasons and during the period of the Polish People's Republic - for ideological reasons called the Third Silesian Uprising. Poland, with the silent permission to supervise large plebiscite areas of the French, carried out early recruitment among the Silesian population, led training camps on its territory, also strengthened the troops of the insurgents on leave at that time officers, petty officers and soldiers of its army. She also delivered weapons, ammunition, and even heavy combat equipment. The blood fighting between the Silesian insurgents' troops and the Silesian self-defense units lasted until 5 July, and although they did not bring a settlement, they resulted in more favourable border arrangements for Poland. By a decision of the League of Nations approved by the Council of Ambassadors on 20 October 1921, 46% of the population and 29% of the population were on the Polish side. the plebiscite area. The part of Upper Silesia attached to Poland was slightly over 1% its territory, however, was of fundamental importance for the II Polish Republic, because almost 90% of its territory was produced all industrial production of the country. The civilization scandal is today's glorification of the fratricidal war fought 100 years ago in Silesia. It's a disgusting, brutal rape of truth and human decency caused by the propaganda education of ignorance. It is the honor of the misfortune of the fratricidal bloodshed of the Upper Silesians, causing deep divisions across the Upper Silesian towns and villages across the Upper Silesian families. That's the truth, and that's the story. Let us not rewrite it, all the more so a few days before the March for Agreed - an annual torch commemorating the victims of the Polish labor camp launched together with the Red Army in order to persecute Silesians and Silesians after the end of World War II. And I have this appeal from this place to Marshal Chełstowski: Mr. Marshal, don't spit in our faces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u363	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today and yesterday, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity was held. This committee was sitting on the immunity of the head of the Supreme Audit Chamber of President Banasi. I don't determine whether President Banas is guilty or not, whether he's crystal or not crystal. To speak of his responsibility, there will be independent courts. On the other hand, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that we are in the Polish Sejm. We are in the temple of democracy, we are in a place where law should mean law, and justice should mean justice. Yesterday's meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee was convened in a secret hall - in the Chamber of the Committee on Special Services. Members from outside the committee were not allowed to attend this meeting, and more specifically, three Members from outside the committee were allowed to enter and all the rest were dismissed. Counselor Małecki, representing Mr Banasi, was not allowed to attend this meeting because he was not allowed to enter. Moreover, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber was not allowed to speak at all at this meeting because the President considered that there was no need to do so. The follow-up of this meeting took place today, already in a public hall, to which Members from outside the committee could enter, but also at that time no substantive discussion took place. Mr Chmaj representing Mr Banasi, one of the best Polish lawyers, and, by the way, one of the best Polish constitutionalists, was treated as an intruder. Members present on the committee have repeatedly pointed out that the prosecution's proposal has formal shortcomings and has formal shortcomings. If such a request had been brought in court proceedings, the court would have simply returned it, it would have considered that there was no such request. In order to complete the picture of this farce, at some point the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee interrupted the sitting, and then called it in another room, which he no longer wanted to let anyone in except the members of the committee. There's no law. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are ruthless here - says that any Member may attend a committee meeting. Only the vote of the committee will take place in the absence of the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the Seym, this is the temple of democracy. We draw legal weapons against the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber (the bell), without deciding whether he is guilty or not, we must act legally, otherwise we deny ourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u364	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The wise Romans often said: times change, and we change with them. This is obvious and unchangeable since the beginning of history. Changes and development are reflected in the nature of a man who has always sought to improve his situation in the broadest sense of the word. However, it must be admitted, however it sounds, that the changes, especially in the technological context, carried out quickly and sometimes a little recklessly, instead of changing the world for the better, have completely opposite effects. An example of this action is the momentum towards changing the drive of cars from combustion cars to electric cars. Few today are able to deny that man has violated his fundamentals through his robbery economy. The development and progress of civilization change the image of nature. We have polluted the earth, the air and the water. Undoubtedly, as mankind, we must put in place corrective programmes so that the next generation can live reasonably safely on our small planet. But it can't be that trying to fix one, we build one, and we make a bomb that will cost us a lot to disarm one day. The transition from combustion to electricity in the short term will certainly improve air quality in many countries in the world, especially in the European Union. However, it must be noted that in the perspective of several, several decades or more, there will be a problem of waste car batteries, whose disposal or recycling is extremely difficult and costly. So that history will not be repeated when Western European countries export their trash to poor African countries so that we do not export this poison to other countries, especially the poor and vulnerable. This reminds me of a somewhat famous Polish saying: somehow it will be. We're improving air quality today, and what are we gonna ruin with toxic substances in electrical cells tomorrow? We don't know that. Car batteries, which is most important here, were not designed for subsequent recycling. As nearly 150 million electric cars are forecast to be driving on the road at the end of this decade, another environmental disaster is under way. What are we gonna do then? Can we get back to the internal combustion drive? No one denies the need for change and the need to fight for the environment. However, this should be done, colloquially speaking, with a head, in a thoughtful, long-term manner, not ad hoc like today. I told you the problem would come up in a few years. In fact, he's already here, knocking on our door. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Traveling around Europe, I saw huge parking lots of electric cars, with which you do not know what to do. So is every change, especially so fast, good? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. I invite you, Member, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, January 26th, we celebrate the Polish Transplant Day. This day commemorates the anniversary of the first successful kidney transplant in Poland in 1966. It took place in Warsaw. The I Surgical Clinic led by Professor Jan Nielubowicz and the I Internal Disease Clinic led by Professor Tadeusz Orłowski performed a kidney transplant taken from the deceased. It was then 621. such an operation in the world - the first one took place in 1954. Since then, when the first kidney of a 19-year-old nursing school student was successfully transplanted, almost 37 thousand organs were transplanted in Poland. patients. It's the population of the city. Successful bone marrow transplantation in Poland took place on 28 November 1984, and the first successful heart transplant in Poland took place on 5 November 1985 under the direction of Prof. Zbigniew Religion. The patient lived another 30 years after the transplant. Transplantation is a transplant of organs, from the Latin Transplantare, i.e. to vaccinate, Trans-trans-- beyond something, Plantare--plant. The organ can be transplanted whole or only partially, from one body to another or within the same body. Transplanting is a daily field of medicine called transplantology. Transplantation of haematopoietic cells, tissues and organs requires adults and children. Currently, about 1800 people are waiting for organ transplants, and over 3,000 people are waiting for transplants. Patients are expected to have corneal transplants. Transplantation is very often the only way to save someone's life, extend and improve their quality. Unfortunately, finding a genetic twin is usually very difficult. Only 25% patients find such a genetic twin in the family. The rest must rely on the help of those who are not related. On average, one in five patients fail to find a donor, and therefore, recovery is impossible. What can you do? I encourage healthy people who can and want to register with a database of potential donors. It is important that the group of potential donors is as large as possible. The more registered people, the more patients have a chance to heal. This declaration involves a desire to give another person a second chance at life. Let's all get involved in the transplant information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u368	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year is the 159th anniversary of the January Uprising. The uprising broke out at night from 21 to 22 January 1863, after the Central National Committee had declared itself a Provisional National Government and called on the nation to fight. The uprising was the result of increasing terror on the part of Russia. It covered the territory of the Kingdom of Poland, Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine to a lesser extent. They were also supported by the Polish population from the Prussian and Austrian partitions. Several circumstances have affected the uprising. After Russia lost the Crimean War, Poles saw the inner weakness of their possessor. The organization of the uprising facilitated the Poles' favourable reform of the Tsar Alexander II Romanov and the death of the Tsar Nicholas I and General Ivan Paskiewicz, the governor of the Polish Kingdom, who sought full Rusification of Polish lands. During this national liberation break in Kielce, numerous insurgent activities took place. They fought here, among others. General Marian Langiewicz and General Joseph Hauke-Bosak. One of the biggest and bloodiest battles took place on 24 February 1863 in the fields of Malogoszcz in the current district of Jedrzejów. The insurgent ward of the gene was invading her. Marian Langiewicz and the Russian army corps under the command of Colonel Marian Langiewicz. Vladimir Dobrowolski. It is here opposite each other to a bloody fight to the death and life stood on two sides of the commander - two Poles, one in the service of the insurgent army, the other in the Russian service. In a 2,000-dollar fight. Russian soldiers were involved in about 2600 insurgents, 300 were killed, and about 500 wounded. In memory of the battle, and thus - the January Uprising in the municipality of Małogoszcz every year takes place Małogoski Złaz Touristyczny. The second town, which until today is a symbol of the insurgent fights, is Suchedni. It was a strong centre of national conspiracy, a large insurgent unit of the Davidovich brothers formed there, who went to Bodzentin and then joined with General Langiewicz. The city was destroyed by the killer and the Poles were repressed. The central celebrations of the January Uprising and the March of the Road of the Insurgents of the January Suchedni - Bodzentin are held every year in homage to the memory of those events. Włoszczowska was also not indebted to the Polish nation's fight against the Russian conqueror. The surrounding forests were many times a place of insurgent camps, and among the insurgents there were many famous figures. The history of this break-up has permanently entered places of fighting in Kielce: Małogoszcz, Opatów, Grochowiska, and the villages that gave the insurgents shelter, among them Wąchock and Bodzentyn and the monastery on the Holy Cross. 1229 battles and smaller battles were fought during the January Uprising. Contrary to expectations, no foreign aid was available, especially from France. The Western powers merely issued a very general diplomatic declaration, considering Polish insurrection as an internal matter of the Russian Empire. Many thousands of people paid their lives to participate in the uprising, and tens of thousands of participants were sent to Siberia. The Russian authorities joined the increased russification (The Bell) of the Polish society. In retaliation, many cities were deprived of city rights. Some, such as Kurzelów in the municipality of Włoszczowa or Secemin, lost their city rights irretrievably. He also lost his possessions to the Church, and there was a castament of the Orders. Immediately after the fall of the Uprising, the rest of the autonomy of the Polish Kingdom, called the Vistula Country, was abolished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 January 1920 the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles of June 1919 entered into force. Thanks to the very active policy of Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Paderewski, who were delegates of the Republic of Poland to the Paris Peace Conference, Poland regained the areas seized by Prussia during the partitions. After 148 years, they returned to the matrix, among others. land of the current Chojnicki district: January 29 - Czersk, January 31 - Chojnice, February 2 - Brusy. These towns will celebrate the 102nd anniversary of their return to the matrix. In the winter of 1920, 140 years after the first cutting and incorporation of the lands of today's Chojnice district into the Kingdom of Prussia, Poles - inhabitants of Czerska, Brus and Chojnice could enjoy the view of Polish soldiers in blue uniforms. It was General Józef Haller's soldiers from the Pomeranian Front who entered the Pomeranian cities, carrying the dreamed, prayered freedom, but most of all fought in the subsequent break-ups of the insurgents. General Haller and his soldiers, marching from Torun, Bydgoszcz and Grudziądz towards the coast, entered the occupied Polish cities. On February 10, they married Poland with the sea in Puck. The inhabitants of Pomerania were very enthusiastic about welcoming the Polish army, which brought to the next villages the dream freedom and return to the Republic of Poland. In the commune of Chojnicki, the takeover of other cities was bloodless. The Prussians were pulling their troops and administration west. Cities and towns were decorated with white and red flags, garlands, and welcome gates were built. Poles, who were inhabitants of Pomerania cities, willingly started organizing Polish administration, working in associations, paramilitary organizations and political parties. Charity organizations were very active in Chojnice, among others. The Red Cross, which helped orphans, sick and helpless. The Gymnastics Society was established, and the Scouting Organizations, which educated patriotic attitudes among students. The great commitment and joy of the inhabitants of Chojnice, Czerska and Brus unfortunately lasted less than 20 years - until 1 September 1939. Then, at dawn, the Germans attacked the Chojnice and the terrible World War II started by Hitler. charity activists, associations, representatives of local government, entrepreneurs were shot in the first months of the war in the Chojnice Valley of Death. From this place I pay tribute to the fathers of Polish independence, who (Dzinek) fought for the presence of Pomerania within the borders of the Second Republic - Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Ignace Paderewski, thousands of Polish soldiers and insurgents, activists of independent organizations, Chojnicz Philomats. As a resident of Pomerania, I thank you all. I would like to thank all nameless priests, teachers, Polish families, all who cared that Polish faith, culture, tradition and speech should not die for years of possessive slavery. Thank you very much. I pay tribute to the first local authorities who built the Polish administration in the Chojnice district. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice. I would like to ask you, Madame, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the kindness and support of the Ministry of Education in terms of raising the rank of the State Higher Vocational School in Tarnów and thus raising the rank of the city of Tarnów itself, which I represent. The development of a higher education institution has a direct impact on the so-called. the potential of the city, its development opportunities, as well as prestige. The establishment of the Academy of Applied Sciences in Tarnów - that will be the name of the State Higher Vocational School in Tarnów - is the result of the amendment of the law - the Law on Higher Education and Science, which has recently entered into force. It enables the best professional universities in Poland to adopt the name: applied science academy. The change means not only changing the visual identification of the oldest Polish professional school, but also opening new perspectives for development. A measurable benefit for universities is the possibility of launching a uniform master's degree in pre-school and early-school education. This means significantly raising the profile of school and creating employment prospects for young people. Two new courses of uniform master's studies - in fixed and non-stationary mode - which are already available in the teaching offer of the State Higher Vocational School in Tarnów, are intended to make young people more likely to decide on the so-called. on-the-spot study. It is financially beneficial, and the scientific level that the university provides is very high. Thanks to the actions taken by the Minister of Education and Science, Tarnów has the chance to become the epicenter of educational life throughout the Tarnów region. Traditions of pedagogical education in Tarnów are really strong. Here I would like to remind you that in the 1950s, 1994 there was a teacher's study, which prepared for work with children and with young people many generations of really great teachers who treated their work primarily as a unique mission. There is no strong urban centre without a strong university, so thank you once again for being able to do something really good for the whole Tarnów region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u374	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u375	For as long as I can remember, the Vistula has been the place where you want to come, a place where there are nice memories and fantastic plans. I think this impression is common to all those who live in Silesia Cieszyńskie, Podbeskidzie or in the whole Silesian Voivodeship. We're happy to get in the car, sometimes on the train, and we're going to the Beskydy pearl to find a break. This year The Vistula celebrates the 60th anniversary of obtaining city rights. During these 60 years, the Vistula people have done an extraordinary job, which has made this place the best of its diversity, with a dynamic economy, efficient self-government, but also a community that remembers its history and cherishes the culture of ancestors. It is worth noting that the Vistula is on the 1st place in the region and on a very high 3rd place in the Śląskie voivodship, in terms of the number of entities of the national economy for 10,000. residents. This means that people who live here are extremely entrepreneurial and take matters into their own hands without waiting for manna from heaven. Self-government is no worse. As far as spending per inhabitant is concerned, the Vistula in the Silesian Voivodeship is placed at a high 8th place. Importantly, we can all see that local investment decisions are good for the residents. Today I want to congratulate all Vistula residents for the fact that during 60 years of functioning as a city they themselves, but also their ancestors, have done an amazing job so that Vistula will be among the cities symbols of compatible work based on the best elements of rich diversity, but also cities, capitals on the tourist map of Poland. I am extremely honored and proud of the fact that I can be associated with the Vistula's personal history and wonderful memories of the past, as well as that I can represent the Beskydy pearl community in Parliament today. Today I also want to give the Vistula people the best wishes of health and a lot of strength to realize plans and dreams, as well as successful projects and investments, so that we all who visit beautiful Vistula places, come back, enjoy attractions, accommodation, restaurants and acquire local products. I am convinced that the best years of the Vistula are still ahead of us, which I wish the Vistula community with all my heart and heart today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that we are proceeding on a joint resolution on solidarity with Ukraine. Today, through the aggressive actions of Russia, but not only today, Europe is on the brink of armed conflict, once again, during Vladimir Putin's reign. It began in 2008 when the Russian troops attacked Georgia and occupied a large part of its territory: southern Ossetia and Abkhazia. Later 2014 - annexation of Crimea and subsequent attack on the circuits: Donetsk, Lugansk, Donbas. Today we face an even greater threat. On the border with Ukraine, the Russians concentrate their troops. According to NATO military intelligence, there are already 170 thousand in combat. soldiers with a full offensive weaponry. The airport and the Navy of Ukraine are also on standby. Some Polish politicians of PiS underestimate the threat and say that it is Putin's emphasis on Europe in connection with the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Guess that's what the party message is. Nothing more wrong. As the latest history of Russia shows, it is not possible to underestimate Vladimir Putin's actions. Its aim is political and economic destabilisation of Ukraine. Russia is afraid of an independent, pro-Western Ukraine, so it wants to subdue it. The Polish government should not underestimate this threat, nor should the Swedes or the neighbouring Finns. Russia has launched a Baltic fleet of 20 attack ships into the sea under the pretext of exercise. She sent six landing ships from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. The Swedes and Finns in response announced joint military exercises that will simulate the defence of their territory. The Italians, the United Kingdom, the United States, even Estonia are sending military aid to Ukraine. The European Union has decided to transfer EUR 1200 million to arms. I'm asking you, what about us? Why aren't we sending help to Ukraine? For example medical assistance in the form of field hospitals, sanitary facilities, military equipment of Ukraine. I ask you to finally react, because this concerns us, Poland, this is our common cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u378	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Committee on Democracy and Security, I attended NATO Headquarters in Brussels on 24 January at the NATO-Ukraine Inter-Paramentary Council meeting. We have focused on it on security issues in Europe. It is clear that he is threatened by the escalation of Russia's military activities and the gathering by this country of nearly 120 thousand armies with weapons at the border with Ukraine, and hybrid actions that affect Ukraine. Today Ukraine, our neighbour and friend, needs the clarity and firmness of Europe, the whole Western world community, to support and maintain peace in this part of the world. The European Union must adopt a precise definition of what Russian aggression is as soon as possible so that, at the moment of the conflict, the Union does not sink into long-term discussions about this definition, but automatically initiates a procedure for imposing sanctions on Russia. There is a strong willingness and willingness to cooperate on the international stage, and a considerable convergence in the assessment of the situation. Three countries are unclear: Germany, Croatia and Hungary. I appeal to President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to join diplomatic action and take the initiative in talks with his political friend, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. At the beginning of February he will meet with Vladimir Putin and discuss energy cooperation with Russia, among others. the expansion of a nuclear power plant in Paks. Polish diplomacy should start action to persuade Hungary to express a clear attitude towards Russia and condemn possible aggression against Ukraine by Vladimir Putin. Ukraine needs European solidarity. This European solidarity also needs Poland because the destabilisation of the situation in Europe, in a country bordering Poland, poses an indirect threat to us. We also need this solidarity because our values are at stake. We must do everything we can to protect Europe from another war. We must do everything to ensure that the idea of solidarity, so close to Poles and Poles, prevails over imperialist impulses. Therefore, I ask and appeal: let us talk to Ukraine, let us talk to our neighbours. With them, not above their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u380	Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my first statement in this term of office, I would like to celebrate the 90th anniversary of the death of Piotr Borowy, which passed on 18 January this year. The apostle Orava Piotr Borowy was born in 1858 in Rabczyce, Upper Orava, now in Slovakia, in a large family of minor farmers, and therefore his childhood was poor, difficult and difficult. But he was a man of great abilities and talents, a self-taught, a traveling catechist, an apostle of sobriety, who was able to make a very logical and suggestive statement of his reasons. For many years, he worked as a reader and an educational worker. After the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, Poland regained independence, and the Orava dispute arose between Poland and Slovakia as to their belongings. Piotr Borowy stood clearly on the Polish side. On 11 March 1919 in Poznań Polish delegation in the composition: Fr. Ferdinand Machay, Prof. Kazimierz Rouppert, gazda Wojciech Halczyn from Spiš, from Lendak and Piotr Borowy from Orava was accepted by the coalition mission of Ambassador Noulens. Piotr Borowy asked for the removal of Czech troops from Orava and Spiš, which entered there in January 1919. However, the mission was not authorized to make such decisions and the delegation went to Warsaw. On March 16 from Warsaw through Vienna and Switzerland, the delegation arrived in Paris. She stayed in the capital of France for almost a month, from 19 March to 15 April 1919, visiting many diplomats and presenting her case. The Gazds were very cleverly moving in the light and in the world of great politics, making their regional highlander outfits, hot temperament and sincere religiousism and peasant wisdom around them a climate of interest, appreciation, respect and admiration. Of course, she also helped them to learn English through paid trips to the United States. The highlight of the delegation's activities was the acquisition of an audience with the President of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, by whom they were adopted on 11 April 1919. Peter Borov spoke as follows: "We have come here. from two small Tatra countries, from Spiš and Orava. The population of these lands is purely Polish. We have come to ask a peace conference to free us from the Czech yoke, and to join us in Poland, to the country which has the only right to us. Unfortunately, the Council of Ambassadors held on 25 September 1919 that the plebiscite was to take place only in the middle of the districts of those which Poland proposed, and a year later, in 1920 under the pressure of Soviet aggression, the Polish government signed a deal with Czechoslovakia under which Spiš and Orava were divided between Poland and Slovakia, and Rabczyce, the family village of Piotr Borowy, were granted Czechoslovakia. Piotr Borowy sold his assets and moved to the other side of the border. First he lived in Jabłonka and then in Lipnica Wielkia by the Rabczycka road, which led to his family village. His deep modesty did not allow him to accept the dignity of the Senator from the Republic. He was already poor in health and died on January 18, 1932. He was awarded the Medal of Independence and the Cross of Polonia Restituta, and his funeral with the participation of government representatives in Lipnica Wielki was a great national and religious manifestation. Piotr Borowy, the apostle of Orava, a man of great discretion and wisdom, well deserved Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u382	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the 100th birthday was celebrated by Mr Ignacy Golik, the oldest former Auschwitz prisoner living in Poland. Born 19 January 1922 in Warsaw. Since the beginning of the war, he has been actively involved in the resistance movement and was arrested by the Gestapo in 1941. He went to prison on Pawiak and then to Auschwitz. He had camp number 9898. Since 1944, it has been transferred to other Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrük concentration camps. He survived the death march. Mr Ignacy testified as a witness in the trial of the SS-mans of Auschwitz in Frankfurt am Main. After the war, he worked as a journalist. Mr. Ignacy! I wish you much health with all my heart for the next 100 years of your life. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u384	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. I would like to ask you to make a statement, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A few days ago we celebrated the 159th anniversary of the January Uprising, which broke out at night from 21 to 22 January 1863. In the January Uprising there was a fraternity of states, building bonds that connected Poles and allowed them to fight together for the liberation of their homeland. This gathering concerned nobles and peasants, as well as Poles from all three partitions, although the uprising exploded in the Russian partition. They were united by heroism, sacrifice, voluntary participation in battles, conscious sacrifice of life - not for the happiness of the individual, not for his own fame, but for the nation, freedom. Their brotherhood and sacrificial struggle together are witnessed by the mass graves in which the insurgents of various states, nobles, peasants, and townspeople, sat side by side with each other forever. This unification of the nation grew from knowing that it was our common destiny, our misery, the oppression of the conquerors, the deprivation not only of freedom, but also of pride. Hence the unique discipline and the growing need to participate in the fights. I'm thinking 200,000. Insurgents who faced a more powerful, better armed Tsar army. They were not deterred by numerous executions, terrible in their pronunciation, humiliating, painful. The heroes without uniforms, naked and tired were accompanied by multitudes of people who on their knees were praying, and the singing of the suplications of God, the Holy Strong, the Holy and the Immortal were long gone, for they were the petitions of the grieving people for mercy over the oppressed nation. After the fall of the uprising, the future repressions - those who knew that the land had to be kept in Polish hands at all costs, were oppressed by foreign banks, possessive restrictions, mergers, prohibitions and restrictions. I think that a similar brotherhood, to the gathering of people around a beautiful idea, not for the happiness of the individual, but for the good of the nation, happened when we first elected the current President when we wanted the victory of the right-wing camp, because we wanted the triumph of truth over lying, honesty over selling, living with ourselves, not betraying national values and the sacred cause of Poland. When difficulties began, when the loud, sellable, alien ideology - infected people noisyly demanded rights and acceptance of what was bad, harmful, not ours, there came again fatigue, disbelief. Poland has already proven many times that it values the welfare of the country. Without a guarantee, without freedom, without freedom in your own home, on the father you love, you can't build trust in power. The village needs a breath just like the spirit of the future. We need to pursue this healthy Polish spirit, without it we are all squandering. Maybe it's not that bad yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The old highlanders said, "The human spirit does not stick, it is impossible to break." It's gonna go bad. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-26-sejm-47-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. on 27 January 2022, until 4 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 16]]
