ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Aleksandra Szcudło and Filip Kaczyński, who will keep the minutes and the list of speakers. In the first part of the session, Mrs Aleksandra Szcudło will be the secretary. I therefore ask the secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u2	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Committee on Infrastructure - h.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9, - to the European Union, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Now we should start implementing our agenda, but the presence of a government representative, which we do not yet see, should be important here. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u4	Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion. If there is no government, it means he doesn't see a reason to be here, and Parliament has an agenda, so I suggest we start our work as planned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u5	I understand, sir, Minister, that you are the only one who is aware that the implementation of this point makes sense, provided that, in addition to the questions, there should also be answers. [[But not answering is also the answer.]] Right. [[Mr. Marshal, answers rarely happen at this point.]] Mr President, it turns out that we are already ready for work. So the first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak. Its question will be on the Government's programme of Bridges for Regions, which aims to improve the cohesion of the regions. The question is addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Waldemar Buda, will answer, which we are waiting for. However, in order not to waste time, we may ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to present his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u6	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The Government's programme Bridges for regions to improve the cohesion of regions, especially where locals have been waiting for a new bridge since World War II, gives them this opportunity. The main objective of the government programme Bridges for regions is to complement local road infrastructure with missing bridge crossings. One of the 20 bridges that are included in the list of programs approved by the government is the Wisla bridge in the Garwolin district between Maciejowice and Kozienice, which connects two counties, Garwolinski and Kozienicki, and which we have been working for together with local government and residents for many years. Many people did not believe that such an investment would be possible and realistic. Before the war, a wooden bridge was built here, which served for several weeks, until the first war activities in September 1939, and was demolished. The inhabitants of both sides of Powiśla have waited over 80 years for a chance to implement an important cross-over region, as well as a very important one for strategic reasons. The Government of Law and Justice by launching the programme Bridges for the Regions made this investment possible, for which I warmly thank you on behalf of my own and the residents. The programme will run until 2025. The government allocated PLN 2.3 billion to its implementation. Self-governments that have decided to build a bridge can count on support from the Ministry of Investment and Development. 60 million PLN is planned for the implementation of the preparatory work in the years 2018-2022. These funds will come from the reserve of the state budget. The financing of the preparation of the documentation from the budget will be 80% the value of the task. And finally, the question. At what stage this year is the implementation of the programme Bridges for the regions, specifying bridge investments in the Vistula, and especially the bridge investment in Maciejowice - Kozienice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u7	Thank you very much, sir. There is still no representative of the government who could answer the question, which is why all I have to do is apologise and ask for your expectation. Perhaps the Minister will show up. But unlike Mr. Waldemar Buda, it is imperative and punctual that Minister Adamczyk... [[Punctuality.]] ... who has come with a strong team and will answer the question most likely asked by Mr Marcin Kierwiński. [[Mr Urbaniak.]] Mr Urbaniak. I did not get the information which of your fellow Members will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u8	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We wanted to ask you a very shocking question. Poles receive millions of Ukrainians into their homes in the face of a war that is taking place abroad, and meanwhile we have been seeing an increase in the number of tirists, which are going to Russia with supplies through Poland, through the Polish-Belarusian border. For a month we have been asking what they are carrying, what is the supply, what Polish customs officers are doing, what Polish bordermen are doing. Are you working anything? Neither do we receive answers to our questions, these formal parliamentary questions, nor the questions we ask in committees, nor do ministers respond to journalists at press conferences. What's going on down there that's such a big secret for you? Why aren't you doing anything? The moment the volunteers, including most Ukrainians, started blocking the Belarusian border crossings, what did you do? You took the Polish Police, in the face of the war in Ukraine you took the Polish Police and you chased these volunteers from the border. And these terry myk, myk, myk - with food, with medicines, and what else do these Russians go with? It's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... There is war, you have patriotic words on your lips, you say you help that you want sanctions that are bigger, and Poland has become such a transmission belt for the Russian army. Are you guys gonna wake up? Are you going to do something about this problem, or are you going to go out and say, "The Union forbids us, the Constitution forbids us?" That's how you can tell young people where the border crossing is on the road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the elders know what the real limit looks like. And that's the border of the Schengen area, right? There's border guards, there's customs, there's everything. Anyone who's a little old knows that a customs officer at the border is more important than God. Do something about it. There's a war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u9	Thank you very much for asking the question. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer this question with the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Magdalena Rzeczkowska: Why don't I start?]] [[If you don't mind, Chief of the Treasury, I'll be in the second part.]] You mean Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska? [[Yes, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to remind you that Poland is a member of the European Union and the customs union of the European Union and applies the trade policy measures set out in the regulations and acts of the European Union. These commercial policy measures are among others. import and export bans, including economic sanctions, i.e. bans on trade, imports, exports of certain goods. I am sending to those EU regulations where there is a precise catalogue of goods which are subject to an export ban from the European Union to the Russian Federation, as well as imports into the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. These are very specific goods. Customs controls are carried out on a two-track basis. First, when the goods are placed under procedure. This is the internal office, where on the basis of a risk analysis, based on documentary checks and inspection of the goods, no goods which are subject to restrictions, export bans, will be placed under an export procedure or transit procedure in Poland, France, Germany. We have confidence in each other as customs administrations, that is the customs union. The next point of control is the border where Polish customs and treasury services carry out very detailed checks on these goods, so that no goods which are prohibited leave the customs territory of the European Union. When it comes to this increase in the number of tirches, we also need to be demented, because we now have 50% less heavy goods transport taking place across Polish borders than it was before 24 February. Detailed information will be provided in writing. Let me remind you that the carriage is carried out by the carrier. These are Polish carriers to a large extent, Belarusian carriers, Russian carriers, but also carriers from other countries, other nationalities. A large proportion of those vehicles that cross the border are empty vehicles that cross the border for different purposes, including: To fuel the fuel. Goods groups that cross the Polish border are mainly mineral waters, used clothing, cleaning agents, building materials, furniture, wooden articles - to the Russian Federation. To Belarus: fruits, vegetables, bread, cleaning products, cartons, paper products. And let me remind you once again, those goods which are prohibited do not leave the customs territory of the European Union. We apply the provisions in force. The checks on these goods are very detailed. Where goods are authorised, they are not subject to restrictions, there is no legal basis for stopping exports of such consignments until Union sanctions are imposed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u11	Thank you very much. I'd like to see the Minister now. [[This is an outrage.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is once again when the opposition, in relation to the tragedy that is taking place behind our eastern Ukrainian border, ignorantly, calculated only on the media effect, whose purpose is to accuse the government of doing nothing, uses this place, this is a special place, to attack all those who are working hard today, to stop the carriage of goods, especially prohibited, but also to make car transport, and not only, to impose sanctions. You're insulting all those who are checking on national roads today, checking for car transport heading east, international car transport. For example, since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, from 24 February to 22 March, inspectors of the Road Transport Inspection have carried out several thousand checks on cars, so-called. Tirów, as you call it, heading east, especially on the plates of Belarus, on the plates of Russia's registration. But you forget one thing (The Bell) that cars in international transport are also controlled belonging to other carriers who are registered in other countries. And if a total of 3,160 Belarusian and Russian cars were checked, almost 3,800 cars from other countries were also checked. Not from Poland, of course. From Poland also goes freight, from west to east. It's been checked over 7,000. Trucks. And it's not that only Belarusians are going, it's not that only Russians are going. Either you want to forget about it, or in a special, conscious way, you're misleading the public. I don't know. Think about what the result is. We can talk more about this. Of course, you're about to say that someone is accusing you of being a Russian onuk. No. Sometimes stupidity leads to the fact that... [[Minister, are you...]] Sometimes stupidity leads to the fact that those who are not sympathetic to us, those who are our enemies, simply enjoy what is happening here in Poland. So that I have a big request, from this point of view, I appeal to all the Members of the opposition: do not insult all those who work hard, the inspectors of the Road Transport Inspections, together with the officers of the National Tax Administration, who carry out checks on Polish roads, from the German border to the Belarusian border including. One more thing. It is not that Poland's border with Belarus is the only border through which car transport takes place. Once again, to bore you, I'll remind you, I'll talk about it again. You can't close the Lithuanian-Polish border because you can't, we can't. [[You can't do anything.]] You are not able to close the Polish-Lithuanian border, nor are we able to close the Polish-Lithuanian border. [[Voice from the hall: You rule and you are unable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u13	Excuse me. Mr President, you have had time to ask questions and you have had this time unlimited. Mr Kierwiński will also have his time and will also have unlimited time. [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]] The minister has his time, and I'm not limiting it either, because it's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u14	Of course, it's important. Let us be clear and explain once and for all: international transport, international automobile transport has the right to move not only on Polish roads, but also on the roads of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. These are very good places to cross the Russian border or the border of Belarus, carrying freight from Western countries. Remember this and do not use this argument in relation to the fact that we do not close the Polish-Belarusian border. And the fact that we want to close it proves the fact that we have been convincing for two weeks, and it turned out that effectively, the Baltic States were going to apply for the closure of borders together. Today we have - because it is not only about them - a uniform position, but before a dozen days ago it was different. Restrictions must be imposed on car transport throughout the European Union - this was expressed by the transport ministers of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, signing a common position the day before yesterday. Today, I hope, it is being discussed at the Council of Europe of the European Union. We have addressed this position to the European Commission, and the European Commission, I hope, has passed on - this is what Commissioner Adina Valean said - our position, our expectation, even the demand for restrictions, not only on motor transport, but also on maritime transport, during the meeting or through the European Council. These are actions that we are taking not only towards the Baltic States but also towards all other countries of the European Union. I will not calculate here, I will not create our actions, mine and my team, against the transport ministers of other European Union countries. It's our duty, and I'm not gonna make it any special event here. But I have talked about it several times, with most of the European Union's transport ministers, individually and in gromio. Do something if you're going out with this appeal and this expectation. Use parliamentary groups to convince the German Government in the Bundestag to apply for sanctions imposed on international transport in a manner as determined as the Polish government. Gather an interparlamentary team, a Polish-Dutch group, go to the Dutch Parliament, appeal to the Dutch parliamentarians to influence their government. Why don't you do it? [[You're the minister.]] You're just using this place and telling the wrong story, as the Minister has confirmed. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] You're talking about an increase in the number of trucks. Why, did you count these cars like Vanya used to count the speed of the car in a joke? [[You guys should count.]] Probably. Over 50% The number of cars that cross the eastern border has fallen. Please don't disturb us, please help us in these activities, don't stir up unnecessary confusion, don't cause unnecessary commotion, nobody needs it. And to whom he serves, you can imagine, because I hope you do not lack this imagination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u15	The question is now asked by Mr Marcin Kierwiński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u16	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you have shown courage in attacking the opposition, in throwing responsibility on everyone. It's a shame you don't have the courage to fight this Putinist contraband. It is a pity that you do not have the courage to finally block Russian tira on the Polish border. Everything's bothering you today. The European Union is bothering you, the opposition is bothering you. The Lord sends Members to speak with the Netherlands, with the Germans. What are you for? What are you a minister for? Please be serious. Really, the situation is very, very dramatic. There's a regular war going on outside our eastern border, and you come in here and make a joke about it? Are you telling the Members to replace the Ministry? What are you for? If you don't understand such obvious things, you have to say That's right. Today you can be either on the hero side of Ukraine, or on the side of invaders from Russia. If you do not block tirists, Russian tirists on the Polish border, you are on Putin's side. And you have to say it straight. [[Applause]] I look at your enthusiasm for attacking the opposition and it reminds me of that enthusiasm when you sent the police to protesting women. It reminds me of this enthusiasm when you dismantled the Polish constitution, fought against the European Union, you had the European Union in your noses. And today you come, the Minister comes and says, "We cannot, because the evil European Union. Then you could change the law? You voted for it, too. You could have changed the law against European law for two days, and today you have a problem with the European Union? Did you remember that today? I'll tell you straight. Today, only political will, political will and your decisions are sufficient to keep this Russian, Putinian contraband on our border. All you have to do is make sure that each of these trucks is screwed up so that each product is tested. You just need will, will, and determination. And you have neither will nor determination in this matter. The basic question is: Why? Why are you guys acting like this all the time? Why, instead of sitting in the ministry and managing this crisis, would you rather come in here and insult the opposition? The Lord calls us to work together to help you? Then start doing something. Just start doing something. To help the government in this case, this government has to want to do something, and you don't want to do anything. You don't want to do anything. You're on the side of the invaders. Do you understand that? The question of your rhetoric between Poles. Your rhetoric attacking the opposition today is precisely the rhetoric behind which champagne corks are fired in the Kremlin. Do you realize that? You come to us and you attack us? You're the minister. For God's sake, you're the minister. Don't you really understand that in this case, if you come up with concrete solutions, if you say, yes, from tomorrow I propose such solutions, so that Russian tira, I deliberately call it jerussian, because they are not Russian, they are Russian with Putin's contraband... If you come up with concrete solutions, you will submit them to Parliament, and we will support them, just get on with it. Now, if there's anything you can do, instead of beating political foam, instead of throwing responsibility on everyone, you'd better get on with your job. Do you think the opposition is going to replace the government today? Do you really think so? Do you really think that Members should replace your contacts with your counterparts in the European Union? Do you really think that Members are to give orders to the Border Guard? Are you serious? Are you serious? Minister! Wake up! Come to your senses! I really can't understand why you guys are on the aggressor's side at all costs with your non-doing. I am not able to understand it, and the whole of Poland is not able to understand it. He is unable to understand why instead of sending Polish services to check out these trucks, you prefer to send Polish police to chase those who protest against it. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u17	Mr President, we are moving to conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u18	Minister! Come to your senses! I know you're gonna leave now, you're gonna be looking for the opposition's fault again. Once again I declare that if you bring concrete solutions that will block Putin's contraband on the Polish border, we will support these solutions. ♪ You just have to want ♪ Do it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u19	Thank you very much. He answers, I understand, Minister Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, you have not understood anything, because I understand that you represent a group of Members who have expressed their acceptance of the arguments that Mr Kierwiński has raised here. Well, I am the last one to ask Mr Kierwiński to deliver me and my colleagues, my fellow ministers, from any work. [[Voice from the room: yesterday you asked.]] [[You asked for it today.]] When I asked this speaker a few minutes ago for support, I spoke about those instruments that parliamentarians, whether opposition or the ruling majority, can use. When governments say: no, when they are abstinent towards e.g. in this case, the restrictions imposed, for example on motor transport, can be used for parliamentary relations and Members can enter into such relations with parliamentarians of other parliaments in the European Union. And this is what this request was about, this is what this phrase was about, not that Mr Kierwiński should replace the Minister responsible for infrastructure, because in this case I could say very immodestly: God save Poland. [[Applause]] I'm not that crazy. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...to ask Mr Kierwinski to do my duty. It's just for the record. [[Minister...]] I don't want to put in a tone of humor, because the matter we're talking about has a dramatic dimension, not just a serious one, to make it clear. Well, that's one thing. This is the basic thing that all of us together, together, where possible, should put pressure on those who think differently today, who have doubts whether to block international transport, which is going to Russia or not. And the point is to block it effectively. One more instrument that Polish Parliament, Polish politicians can use, these are MEPs... [[Beata Szydło.]] ...no matter what parliamentary faction they represent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Have you spoken to them as Minister?]] There's only one way... [[Not yet, I understand.]] Not the only one. I'm sorry. It is also possible for parliamentarians to act. It is not about calling for restrictions on Poland, but it is about acting in the interests of the European Union, in the interests of peace above all. [[Minister, have you spoken to them or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u21	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u22	One more thing. You know, your knowledge of the authority of ministers, I think, is well known. In every speech you make, you prove it. Pointing out by you that the minister responsible for transport can decide what checks and to what extent they are carried out at the border is precisely an image of your indifference to the competences of the various ministries. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u23	There will be no extension of this discussion. We wait for the minister to finish, and we proceed with the next question. [[Mr. Marshal...]] No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u24	And the question of an extremely important nature, because it is in the moral sphere. [[Is Meja going to be there? Oh, cool.]] Well, you can't accuse someone of pro-Russian actions. This cannot be done by those who voted against the introduction of a state of emergency in areas bordering Belarus. After all, it was a prelude to war, and it was known. Every wise man knew that. You can't accuse anyone of bad will. It cannot be done by those who voted against the construction of a barrier at the Polish-Belarusian border. And in whose interest did you act then? [[And whose business are you in?]] In whose interest were you then acting against these decisions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u25	Minister, wait a minute. [[Mr. Marshal, please correct mode.]] Mr. President, I'm asking you. We may have an endless show in a moment, because it will turn out that the Minister will also find your words lying. [[I promise it'll be short.]] Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me remind you that on this floor you stand on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers. We have addressed this question to the President of the Council of Ministers, and he has such competence, he may issue orders by the relevant ministers. If you don't understand, I don't know what you're doing in this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u27	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We now have an organisational collision, because Mr Buda has arrived in the room, who would answer the question... Are you Minister Buda? The Minister would answer the question previously asked by Mr Wozniak and then we would continue with the order of our questions. There you go. Minister, you just said you were in a hurry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Yes, yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Dear Parliamentaries! Minister! The question we have received as part of the current questions concerns a very important economic problem. Perhaps in this crowd of matters so important, related to the current problem in Ukraine and Russian aggression, this problem is not perceived, but it is extremely important. This is about the Bridges programme for the regions. It is the first such program in free Poland, which is dedicated to bridge crossings throughout Poland. There's never been a dedicated program to solve these problems. Often such investments were simply not eligible for other schemes. They were not eligible for road programmes, they were not eligible for remodeling bypasses, they were not eligible for tasks performed by local authorities and were therefore not carried out for decades. If we go around many regions of Poland, we will find that bridge crossings were often mentioned in the 1960s, 1970s and are still being discussed. We decided to try to solve this problem and we created a program dedicated exclusively to bridge crossings. As a result, we already have this programme in place, we launched it in 2018. About PLN 2.3 billion is earmarked for this purpose. It's a bookmark in the government's Self-Government Road Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! This program's already working today. 23 investments are under way at different stages. Please note that the design of bridge crossings is an extremely complex process. This is not a road, here are often needed very individual solutions for specific crossings, even several hundred meters, because we have, but they are implemented, are designed. We have some of those that have already been completely realized, but most of them are in the design phase. The construction and financial assembly are that from the budget resources of the reserve we transfer up to 80% for the design, and then up to 80% for the government's Self-Government Road Fund already for the implementation of this investment. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as these investments are concerned - of course I can list them all here and determine the status of their implementation - the interest was huge. More than 70 projects have been submitted to this competition. We chose those that were recommended by the Ministry of Infrastructure, i.e. an entity that does some analysis of needs, needs in this regard. We chose the most important ones and of course also those in which local governments were ready to invest their own contribution, which local governments were ready to implement, carry out, often in cooperation with other local authorities. Let us remember that it is often the case that the bridge crossing connects two municipalities, two counties. We've dealt with situations like this, too. Such bridge crossings cost a great deal: from tens to even several hundred million PLN. We have one that we value for several hundred million zlotys, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is only proof that they are absolutely necessary and even if the expenditures must be huge, they must be realized. I would like to point out that this programme reaches its scope and schedule in 2018. Until then, we are to realize all those investments that have been selected and placed on the ranking list. And, of course, the question is whether this program should have its second edition or should it be continued. Indeed, the need is enormous. This program, this first call, has shown how much this competition was needed. Today we look at these investments, today we look at design, today we look at whether there are any delays, so that these investments can be realized on time. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, we have tasks that are half-designed. Three are complete. There are eight investments under construction. The cost range is from PLN 17 million to PLN 400 million. Design is costing about 800,000. PLN up to PLN 6 million. So we also see a huge range here. I think all those, even parliamentarians, who come from regions where this bridge crossing is being built... This is most often the biggest event in a given district for many, many years when it comes to infrastructure investments. I'm very happy for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whenever we are in the field and we observe these investments, we really hear the recognition that we have undertaken these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u29	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. It will be asked by Mr Robert Obaz, and it concerns housing policy and ways of... But it's not for the Minister anymore... Oh, second question. Excuse me, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. We know that the river Vistula is loved by Poles, even many songs testify about it, but at the same time it divides Poland in a sense, and bridges are to connect, hence we thank you for this initiative at all and for the possibility of increasing the number of places connecting Poland. And here we have this Maciejowice bridge - Kozienice, for which we are wondering whether the procedure will be carried out in the current situation. Will financial resources be provided for this construction in a situation of increasing inflation, since it is known that these costs will increase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u31	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already pointed out, these decisions to select specific investments, these estimates without design documentation were presented in 2018. And indeed we are dealing with a situation where a number of them will be underestimated. Here is indicated bridge crossing in Kozienice. This is a big bridge crossing, which is probably the most expensive in the whole program. She was valued at PLN 230 million, but we already predict today and the projectors also indicate that it could be much more, even 100% More. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, because we are responsible for the public sphere, we cannot afford a situation where the work that has begun, a few million invested in design, would be in vain. From this point of view, I can assure you that these cost increases at the stage from the time of the competition decision to the time of the tender decision, i.e. at the moment of implementation of this investment, the choice of the contractor, will have to be covered by the state budget and that the fund for this programme will have to be increased by these amounts. We absolutely cannot get out of this, although we know the situation on the construction market, we know what it looks like. We have to take responsibility for this. We must lead to a situation in which this investment will be implemented. How much it is needed when it comes to these Kozienice, we are really aware of it, because we decided, we chose projects on the ranking list. I also remember your visits to me, discussions on this subject and information on the need to do so. So that I ask for peace, we are waiting for the design process to be completed. As far as I know, this ending will be in May 2024. And then there's the tender. We'll be ready with funding for this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Obaz will now ask about housing policy and ways of supporting Polish families who rent apartments, refugees, but also students from small towns and villages who will not be able to rent apartments in a university city in a situation where construction investments are slowed down due to high interest rates and inflation, reduced housing supply or a significant increase in property prices due to the war across our eastern border. He will be the first to ask Mr Krutul and then Mr Obaz. Mr Piotr Uściński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, is ready to reply on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For months now, we have been dealing with the inhibition of construction investments. This is due to rising double-digit inflation, a sharp increase in interest rates that we have not seen in at least 8 years. The economic situation has resulted in a strong reduction in housing supply and a significant increase in property prices. A real tornado has gone through the rental market in the last few weeks. The number of offers in the largest cities dropped by nearly 60%. Across the country is currently 58% on average Less vacant apartments than three weeks ago. This is all happening with more than 30% increase in rental prices. In an extremely difficult situation, Poles and Poles want to know what to do with the housing policy of the government. In Poland we have 15 million apartments, including some of them not suitable for use. According to our country's assumptions, between 2 million and 3300 thousand are missing. apartments. In this situation, will the Government of Law and Justice face the challenge of providing a roof over the heads of Polish families, or will they helplessly spread their hands? How does the Moravian Prime Minister's government intend to support war refugees? Our brothers and sisters from the war-stricken Ukraine seek refuge in Poland. At such a high cost and decreasing housing resources, this can be extremely difficult. After all, how does the government intend to support students from small towns and villages who, with such drastic increases, will not be able to afford to rent apartments in a university city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We have the National Housing Program in Poland, since 2016 it has been functioning, to various extents. During this time more than 1 million apartments were built on the market. This has improved the availability of apartments for Polish families, for Polish citizens. Already 7 years ago, 367 apartments were available for 1000 citizens, today it is more than 400 apartments for 1000 citizens, which is an undoubted success of the National Housing Program. The number of people waiting in line for communal housing in the municipalities decreased by 17% at the same time, i.e. several tens of thousands of families less expected for social housing. These are, of course, the successes of the National Housing Programme, but I am aware that they do not solve the current problems that you have been talking about. It is worth mentioning that we have different tools. In 2021, 14 000 were built or started thanks to the recent reform. social and municipal housing with government funding. It's almost 3,000 this year. These are record scores in the last few years. By March 23, i.e. practically until today, KZN created 24 social housing initiatives with municipalities, joined two existing TBS. Within the framework of the companies I am talking about, these SIMs and TBS are expected to have another 20,000. Locations. In 2021 and in the first months of this year we transferred PLN 3 billion to the municipalities for housing: 1.5 billion from the Dollar Fund and another 1.5 billion from the Government Housing Development Fund. We transferred 70 hectares of land through KZN for residential construction. A further 1.5 billion will be set up - this is already happening: 1.2 billion under the Dollar Fund and 300 million under the next tranche in the Government Housing Development Fund. It's all gonna get local governments to build community housing, rent housing, community housing. It's, I think, a lot of it, it wasn't in history. Another solution that I think will help in this area, which you have been asking about, is the social rental agencies. This tool is already used by some municipalities in Poland. These rules enable municipalities to conclude a cooperation agreement with SAN, a social rental agency, and use existing premises belonging to different owners to meet the housing needs of persons whose income or living situation does not allow for the rental of apartments on a commercial basis. Another instrument to support tenants is the housing scheme and, in the case of low income people, the housing system. The scheme is particularly attractive for people living at the start of the project. It allows to address support to the tenants of these SANs, SIMs, TBSs and apartments built in market format in cooperation with the municipality, e.g. PFR Real estate. The funding for rental contracts concluded with private parties is not currently considered, because it would unfortunately simply increase the fees. After all, this situation is not due to an increase in the costs associated with the hire, but to a disruption in the last 2 or 3 weeks of the supply and demand situation in the rental market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u37	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've said a lot about what's going on, and yet the question also referred to a few things about renting apartments. You've talked a lot about possibilities. You also said that several tens of thousands of municipal apartments were given, and the queue decreased by 17%. So a few hundred thousand more families are waiting for communal housing. The Living+ programme unfortunately did not work out, as the latest report from NIK has also shown. Back to the point, I would like to say that we also asked how we are going to help students in large university cities such as Wrocław, Zielona Góra or Poznań, where housing prices have risen by around 30% today. Sales of apartments on the development market (Bell) in February decreased by 70% so that the rental apartments are much less on the market. Guests in their doorsteps of refugees from Ukraine and practically all apartments are rented. Today it is quite difficult to rent an apartment, so prices have speeded up. How are we going to help students who rent apartments? In dorms there is no place for all, therefore students must rent apartments in the secondary market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u39	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Piotr Uściński to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, all the things I have been talking about maybe not all of them, but most of them are just apartments for rent, because apartments built by SIMs and TBS are rental apartments for rent, as well as communal apartments, are also rental apartments. As far as the communal housing is concerned, you've pointed out a little bit of a wrong number. I don't want to point that out, but I'm going to quote some real numbers about families waiting for community housing. In 2014, 2015, at the end of the Platform's and PSL's governments, 168 thousand residents were expected to live in municipal housing. families. This is 2020 data. At the moment, this figure has fallen to 136,000. The number of families waiting for communal housing has decreased by 17% over the last six years of the rule of law and justice. We do not yet have data for 2021, but this figure has probably decreased again during this period. Unfortunately, now we can expect that this decline will not continue, because in queues after the communal apartments refugees who have come to Poland can also be set up if they meet the criteria for low income, because municipal housing is for low income people. Similarly, the State continues to support all those with low income. The housing allowances that I have been talking about, which can be obtained, for example, at the ILOS, or the Living on the ground programme, are instruments to support those with lower incomes, and we will continue to help them. Of course, we are thinking about this - and we are working hard on it - how can we run more resources, because we are not able to build, within a few weeks, more hundreds of thousands of apartments, it is impossible, so we are wondering how to run these resources, the deserts, which are still in the possession of municipalities. Very often, even in large cities, there are tenement houses that are owned by municipalities, and for some reason the municipalities do not make these communal apartments available. We want to stimulate this, we want the resources that exist out there, we want to run them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u41	Thank you very much. We come to the next question which Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will ask and which will concern the low valorisation of pension benefits paid by the CRUS. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u42	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Since 1 March, pension benefits have been valued for all pensioners and pensioners, but the least benefit has been paid by retired farmers, farmers' pensions, because they are a group of pensioners with the lowest benefits. Of course, the government's declarations were great that it would be 7%. , not less than 70 PLN, but today, when farmers have already received these March benefits, it turns out that it is several zlotys and that it does not cover the costs of inflation and price increases. Today we have a galloping rise in food prices, electricity. Inflation, contrary to what was predicted, will be much higher, will be a dozen percent, it is said that 12% maybe more, so there is quite a lot of poverty. Most pensioners in the country have benefits at a level of not much more than PLN 1000. It is hard to imagine how price increases for 1000 PLN can be made today. Of course, this also applies to other pensioners, ZUS-owskie, but practically most agricultural pensioners, 90% , gets the lowest benefits. So my question, Minister, is: Is the government considering in this emergency situation, because it is important to say that we have an extraordinary situation, we have never had such high inflation, there is a wage increase, whereas (The bell) there is a gap in wages and pensions, is the government going to do something about it, to introduce another valorisation? Because, of course, the valorization was, only took away that increase in the health contribution. So this should be explained, because these concerns are among farmers, we get a lot of calls, a lot of interventions and questions about where this increase in benefits is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Affirmative.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u43	Thank you very much. You will be answered by Minister Anna Gembick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Law of 2 December 2016 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, which entered into force on 1 March 2017, laid down rules for the purpose of carrying out the valorization of pension benefits, including agricultural pension benefits. It increased the amount of the lowest pension benefits from the general scheme and amended the Act on social insurance for farmers in determining the amount of agricultural pension benefits and the rules on the valorisation of agricultural benefits for the future. The valuation of agricultural pensions consists in multiplying the amount of basic pension calculated by individual pension ratios for the contribution part and for the supplementary part determined separately for each beneficiary. The valorisation of the basic pension consists of multiplying it by the valorisation rate established in accordance with pension rules, which is 7% in 2022. Therefore, in its Communication of 17 February 2022, the President of the CRUS announced that the amount of agricultural basic pension from 1 March 2022 was PLN 1084,58. The valorisation of agricultural pensions from 1 March 2022 involves multiplying the basic pension amount of the amount provided by the dimension indicator determined individually for each benefit. If, as a result of the increase or valorization of the amount of the benefit, this amount is lower than the amount of the lowest employee pension, i.e. from 1 March 2022, it is PLN 1338.44, then the cashier above it ex officio to the amount of PLN 1338.44. That amount shall not include an increased pension granted under Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on social security for farmers, benefits whose payment has been suspended pursuant to Article. 28 or Article. 34 Act on social insurance of farmers, or pensions from insurance collected in conjunction with a pension from another social security, if the sum of these benefits exceeds the amount of the lowest occupational pension. Here with the exception of a survivor's pension paid in conjunction with a social pension. According to this information, which we also have, and the Member also spoke about various types of applications, this is the problem most frequently raised, i.e. those pensioners who have pensions paid partly from the Social Security Office, partly from the CRUs. I would like to say right away that we are in working contact with the family ministry to comprehensively regulate these issues of insurance fugitives, and that is what we are working on together. As of 1 March 2022, the amounts of allowances, pensions and pensions have also increased, i.e. maintenance allowance, allowance for war disability, mattress allowance, supplement for secret teaching, flat-rate energy. The Member asked what the government was doing to improve the situation of pensioners, given the circumstances. We have been introducing different types of additional solutions for several years, such as the 13th pension, the 14th pension, which will also be paid this year. From this year on, from retirement to 2.5 thousand. PLN is not collected tax, which also has a positive impact on its amount. In addition, I would like to remind you that we are working on the fact that soon the law on the abolition of the obligation to cease agricultural activities in the event of retirement will be passed to the Sejm. This is the change very expected by farmers. I will also add that the first pension allowances for well-deserved CSR firefighters have already been paid, which mostly concerns people living in rural areas and farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u45	Thank you very much. The second question will also be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Everything looks so beautiful, you quoted the indicators, but these indicators can't last a month. Of course, allowances, 13th and 14th pensions, that's some kind of benefit, that's not an increase in pension benefits. We're talking about an increase in benefits, a steady increase, because today this 13th pension is, and in six months or a year, she'll be gone. The point is to make it a steady increase in pension benefits. But I have a question: how much does a farmer get on his hand today at the lowest level of witnessing, because most of them are like that? How much is he getting? Concerning the transfer of the agricultural holding. Minister, you do not have to submit, the government does not have to submit such a project, because for 2 years in the Sejm there is a project submitted by the Polish People's Party, so that you do not have to transfer the agricultural holding when you retire, because (The bell) many farmers have a problem with it, without having successors. Just start the legislative process and at one meeting of the Sejm it can be decided and adopted. The government has been promising to introduce this for a year now, but no progress has been seen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u48	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the issue of this amount is concerned, as I said, from 1 March it is PLN 1338.44 less the premium on health insurance. With regard to the law concerning the possibility for a farmer to continue his business activity at the moment of retirement, Mr.Polish Łada's demands were proposed as part of the solutions provided for in the Polish Łada, this is what we talked about in the Polish Łada for the Polish village, the conference was in October. We've been working on this bill ever since. Besides, it's not that simple a solution. Because we also want to approach this in a way to regulate these issues with the family ministry, e.g. just related to insurance fugitives in the case of a pension paid with ZUS and KRUS. These are also other solutions provided for in this Act. But I think, fortunately, the bill will be passed by the Council of Ministers any minute now, and we want it to be in the Sejm as soon as possible. I hope that here, in the Seym, this work will be very efficient and, as Mr Kowalczyk has announced, these regulations will be able to function from July. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Members: first Mr Wojciech Saluga and then Mrs Isabel Leszczyn. They will be asking about imports of coal and oil from Russia. The question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. Minister Piotr Pyzik will answer them undersecretary of state in the Ministry of State Assets. Here you go, Mr Saluga.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u50	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the cost of energy security of Poland, at the expense of many years of neglect, at the expense of billions of zlotys, of Poles' money for almost 7 years, buying more and more Russian coal and Russian oil, we also finance the war in Ukraine, we also finance Putin the slaughter he is organizing there. Yes, you want to shout it, you want to hide it, but the truth is that it was your government that made Poland the leading importer of Russian oil and Russian coal. You teach and yell at others, right? But Poland is the second importer of Russian oil in Europe and the fifth importer of Russian oil in the world and probably the eighth importer of Russian coal in the world. You repeat various lies, but the truth is that it is with this money, with Polish money, the money of Polish taxpayers Putin buys planes and Putin also buys tanks. As far as coal is concerned, there is a long-term festival of hypocrisy in many acts. In 2014, Mrs Izabela Kloc - Mr Jarosław Kaczyński picked it up - calls for an embargo, stopping imports of Russian coal. What's going on? In 2008, this import doubles, triples and beats records - 13 million tons. In 2015, the election campaign - Prime Minister Szydło, Prime Minister Kaczyński in Silesia, says that it is a scandal that mines are being closed. They promise no mine will be closed. Makochowy, Krupinski, I won't bully you, Minister. More than 10 other mines were closed in the second year. 2016, PiS and Anna Zalewska - the famous law 10H ruins the development of wind energy in Poland. You've kept her for many years. 2019 - Minister Tchórzewski announced new mines and one year later you are eliminating, you are announcing the liquidation of everyone. You're making nuclear energy look like it. You've blocked the development of renewable energy in windmills. You're reducing coal production year by year, you're addicting us to Russian oil and Russian coal. How much longer? When will Prime Minister Morawiecki stop fighting in German breasts and start fighting in his? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u51	Thank you very much. I now ask Minister Pyzik to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened with great interest to the speech of the Member. For historical correctness, I will remind you that the collapse in mines and coals is not the responsibility of the Law and Justice, only those who ruled before. [[Yeah, it's all Tusk's fault.]] It's a matter of... Excuse me, I'll try to answer the question in substance. Good. When it comes to coal... I'll start with coal. Sorry, time's ticking, and I'd like to... If I don't do something, I won't answer, please, I'll answer in writing. So, yeah. As far as imports of hard coal from Russia are concerned, the situation on the coal market in the world is shaping the high prices of this raw material. It should be stressed that the current situation in world markets is very difficult, even unpredictable, and prices record high levels. The prices of coal in ARA ports reached a historic level of $460 per tonne on 9 March. On 22 March this year. It was $266. So in theory we are dealing with a drop in this course, but the situation in Ukraine clearly shapes the issue of this price. On the other hand, at the time of signing the coal conversion agreement in September 2020, the price was only $60 per tonne. In view of the above, it should be concluded that the current difficult and uncertain situation of the European market and high prices may discourage importers from bringing coal to Poland from different directions, which will clearly also shape the demand for coal in Poland, especially since 99,7% coal used by companies of the Treasury is domestic coal. Therefore, this issue unfortunately concerns individuals, and this is a situation which will make it necessary to import, but from other destinations, of course. It's a very big short story, because I have two minutes and 42 seconds left. As for oil imports from Russia, today the situation is so that both Orlen and Lotos have long-term contracts signed with Russian companies Rosnieft and Tatnieft for oil supply. Both companies do not provide information on existing contracts, but it is clear that their break-up is only possible if the European Commission raises the embargo, i.e. if everyone applies the embargo. Oil and fuel supplies are secured because over recent years, efforts have been made to diversify oil supplies. Because while you're looking at these issues historically, it seems to me that in your time this space... Today oil is probably in space 61% And in your day, it was like a good 30%. More, it was over 90%. Over the past few years, opportunities for oil storage will significantly increase. This is also important because we are able to adopt the oil embargo immediately, e.g. apply them from tomorrow without loss to the Polish economy. Well. What else can I say? A hugely, equally important aspect in increasing energy security is the consolidation of fuel and gas companies: Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG, which strengthens the possibility of diversifying oil sources and becoming independent from the eastern direction of Russian imports. One of the direct effects achieved during the consolidation process of Orlen - Lotos is the long-term contract for the supply of oil to Poland. Thanks to this agreement Orlen combined with Lotus will guarantee the supply of oil from Saudi Arabian Oil Company in a quantity of up to 337 thousand. barrels a day, that's over 16 million t a year. Well, at this stage, Maybe that's it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u53	Thank you, Minister. The second question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We have just heard that Poland will finance Putin's terrorist activity because Orlen and Lotus have signed long-term contracts. [[Applause]] Did you hear yourself, Minister? How embarrassing are you? Since Russia's attack on Ukraine, the PiS government has been pursuing a policy of great gestures and small actions. Actually, you're not doing anything. What have you done when it comes to applying rules other than those that regulate the trade and movement of goods at normal times? We're at war. The question to the Minister is: Has the Polish government applied the Penal Code and the Anti-Terrorism Act to exports and imports, to imports of coal and oil? These are legal acts on the basis of which today Poland should regulate its trade relations with a country such as Russia Putina. And all you guys keep saying is, "The bell." We'll do what they do. We can't do it, because the Union. So, Minister, have you applied the laws I've told you about, what actors, and what are the results? Don't tell the public that State Treasury companies don't use Russian coal because they're under public pressure. they do not buy directly, but indirectly you continue to buy Russian coal and finance the Putin war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u55	Thank you very much. Minister, the questions have been asked precisely and I would ask for a precise answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. The answer is simple. First of all, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki is diversifying from year to year when it comes to the supply of oil from Russia, which results in what I said just now, i.e. going from 91 to 60% when it comes to supplies from Russia. That's once. As I said, we are ready to adopt this embargo day by day, but the competence, as far as trade policy is concerned, is, in the hands of the European Commission, the European Union, and we are a loyal member of the European Commission. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I'd like a written reply. The Minister didn't answer. Please read the transcript and answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u57	Minister, the Member has asked for a written reply. I think the Minister can do that. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Of course. I'd be happy to do that. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Although, in fact... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Don't insult the minister.]] Now Mr Jarosław Gonciusz is asking a question about extending the lifetime of coal-based energy. It is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. Minister Piotr Pyzik will also answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the most important aspects of energy sovereignty and security is to rely largely on its own energy sources, primarily independent of Russian gas. The situation and conflict in Ukraine have clearly shown that energy dependence cannot be made and, above all, subject to any energy blackmail. Work should therefore be started to maintain coal-fired power plants as long as possible with a simultaneous guarantee of supply. In the current situation it seems that energy security of Poland and Europe is more important than the current climate policy. It is very good that Europe has finally opened its eyes on this. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry is undertaking analyses or work aimed at delaying the period during which coal would be withdrawn from our energy. Let me tell you more: Is the Ministry considering recapitalisation of the machinery park as well as the development of mines? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u59	Thank you very much. You will answer this question, Minister Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for this question, because it is crucial for today's space, not just for the mining industry, but for what we call an energy transformation. There are those who think that this issue only applies to mining communities, but it will be a civilization transformation. This will apply not only to the whole country, but also at least to the whole of Europe. And the consequences will go on. The war in Ukraine has shown us all how important it is to become independent of the supply of raw materials. But in the situation where we are, we really need to work on new solutions. Just as I told my colleagues from the Civic Platform earlier, we are a loyal member of the European Union, and therefore we do not have to obey laws and orders, but we do. The situation is that we still have an additional aspect of the matter, as you and your colleagues know. Namely, a year ago in May an agreement was signed with the social side, so-called. Social agreement. It is currently subject to notification. This is one aspect of this case. The second aspect of the case is not even energy security anymore, but the security of the country. We think of him, we plan, we reason in such a way that we can answer positively the questions that Mr and his colleagues have been kind to ask. We're going to analyze everything. These tests are being done. As far as mining space is concerned, we will certainly want to reach out to all possible arguments that will allow us to obtain consent for such actions in a discussion with the European Commission. Like I said before, the law is the law. We follow every article, every paragraph. We are moving towards securing the interests of the Polish state. We will do everything we can to ensure that the European Commission agrees to our concept. Mr Timmermans' first speech after the escalation in the East, after the Soviet invasion in Ukraine, was promising. The second was less promising, more fuzzy, but this is a question of the energy system in Europe, which seems to fall when it comes to not functioning in the space of some political correctness. Therefore, we are sure to ask some questions. We represent the Polish state and all citizens, not only those who live with us in mining communities. The interests of these people are of particular concern, and that is why there is this social agreement. She's in the interest of all of us. That's one thing. The second point is what I said before. We are analysing, investigating and trying to prepare such arguments, and I will stress this once again, which will allow the European Commission to implement solutions that are right for us, for our economy. Nothing has changed about this issue. We must fight for the competitiveness of our economy not only in the European market but also in the world. We must fight for climate values. The Member knows this well because we are from one town and we have lived a little in this town. Health and climate issues are essential to the inhabitants, especially the inhabitants of mining communities, or once, God forbid, the primary and definitely the most important. The issue of transformation is important, but all the time, also in discussions with the European Commission, we need to look at it in the context of social transformation. The point is to bring people, all of us, and especially the inhabitants of these areas, as gently as possible through this transformation. What else can I add? I don't want to go back to what someone tried to do earlier, but we were encouraged to decarbonize faster, to do things that actually made us turn off our greatest treasure. That's the way to put it. Coal is our greatest treasure. Today the world knows - the prices of raw materials show this - that coal is the cheapest and most interesting source of energy. However, the fact is that things such as carbon emissions and some harmfulness in relation to the further use of coal are, as it were, more related to science (the Bell) and not to certain political solutions. We're waiting for this, just as we're waiting for an atom and other solutions that, God forbid, will come. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will ask the question again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask if it is planned to return to talks with foreign companies. Japanese leaders lead here, who are competent and experienced in the use of coal gasification technology for energy purposes. It's the so-called. IGCC technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u63	We ask Minister Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u64	Thank you so much for that question. It's more precise. I'll get back to the social contract. The second point of the social agreement is the introduction of the so-called. new technologies. Of course, with all the ruthlessness of this possibility, we will use it, and we will want to develop it. Thank you so much for that question. As far as new coal technologies are concerned, gasification is a technology that has long been considered controversial to me for a long time. We have two lines. Whether gassing is carried out in the deposit or outside. We are in contact with foreign centres that claim to have experience and above all have industrial installations that function. I say, for example. Japan. That's one thing. Second line. I have a weekly consultation with scientists on carbon-energy issues. One of the first topics we talked about a few months ago was gassing. The Higher Mining Authority informed me of at least three attempts, which in Poland years ago, maybe not in such a distant past, were realized, and all three ended, to put it mildly, with failure. Information that installations are functioning somewhere in the United States, Canada, Japan or even Australia - yes, also in Australia - are only information that does not confirm the fact that these are industrial and operational installations. But there's no denying that gassing... If we found such a solution in the gasification space that would be economical and simply cost-effective for companies, it would clearly change the structure of the mining industry in our country. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u65	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, and I'll add... If the marshal were polite not to add it... Of course, if I hadn't exhausted the space of this question with my answer, please be more specific. Of course, I'll answer everything in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. He will ask them as the first Mr Sławomir Nitras and then Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. The question will concern the assets of Russian oligarchs located in Poland. On behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Sebastian Skuz, will answer the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u66	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance answers this question, because we know how the Minister of Finance can be effective in chasing the assets of Polish citizens, whether rightly or sometimes wrongly. Minister! Don't talk on the phone when you're listening to me. Polish finance resort and Polish Ministry of Finance is very effective, as he wants, in the collection of assets, as I said: often ineffectively. This is a list of sanctions. I don't want to convince anyone - because I think we agree - that we have to secure the property of the Russian oligarchs, because they're not just financing the war. These are simply very often people who are just pillars, that is Putin's property and the most important Russian officials. This money is funding the war, and they're the property of the people who are responsible for this war. This money must be secured immediately and consistently taken away from them. This is, Minister, a European sanction list. All the names of the people whose assets have to be secured are on this list. And they're secured. In the European Union, over 100 billion dollars have been secured by Russian oligarchs since the outbreak of the war. On this list is my neighbor Mr. Andrei Mielniczenko. Why do I say my neighbor? Because he's got a big base a few kilometers away from me where he trades Russian coal in Szczecin. These are KRS statements. I'll do it. I did it in a few minutes. These assets have been his wife's for several weeks, Mrs. Alexandra's. They're not his anymore. But in Poland, can the transfer of property to a wife be effective enough to avoid liability? I know that sometimes you can have such temptation, but it can't be like this. The property belonging to Mrs. Alexandra is Mr. Andrei's property and should be secured. Only one company called SUEK. This is a list of databases that SUEK has in Poland. Theirs is 21. He trades Russian coal. This is the base in Gdynia. This is a base in Braniewo. This is the base in Szczecin, and this is the base in Gdańsk. Theirs is 21. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You haven't secured any. This is his yacht in Italy. He's already secured. His companies in Switzerland, in Austria, are secured. In Poland, no. This is the moment when, Minister, we must act. You have all the instruments because there are several hundred people in Poland. Their assets must be secured. Minister! Two Russian assets were secured in Poland. One is the Russian settlement, which was secured by President Trzaskowski in Warsaw, and the other is the Ukrainian embassy, which he protected from the Russians in Poland. Only these two properties were effectively secured. I could tell you what you're doing right now. I could tell you why you're not doing it, making theories. But I'm simply calling you to act because this action, to be effective, must be very fast. They're smart, they're hiding the property, they're protecting the property. If you change the constitution, make laws, which will last for days, they will simply protect themselves from it. You can't just limit yourselves to the fact that you have mouths full of clichés. I showed you an example of how one man can be identified in a moment and secure his assets. You should stand here today and show us the list: this is what we secured, this is what we took. That's what I expect you to do. This is what I expect of the Polish government when Ukraine defends itself against Russian aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u67	Thank you so much for asking. The answer will be, as I said before, Minister Sebastian Skuz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u68	Dear Marshal, High Seym! It can be said that actions are carried out in two areas. The first is a sanctioning area based on European Union law. Here the law is applied directly, these are regulations. Some are from 2014, now updated. There have also been new regulations. There are 19 of them in total. They're applied directly. Actions shall be taken by bodies which may do so. Mostly it is the banking sector and action is being taken here. I'll give you the data in a minute. The second area of action is so-called activities. AML and Criminal Code, Art. 165a and Art. 299. As of yesterday, the amount of frozen assets is over PLN 160 million. [[It's for the cotton balls.]] These are mainly financial assets frozen by the banking sector. However, there were also measures to block the resources of related parties, e.g. with Belarus or with Russia over PLN 30 million, i.e. over PLN 160 million in total. What the Member has said is true. In Poland, there were not many oligarchs, their wealth. I think that in recent times both the political climate and the literal climate have not served to keep these assets in Poland. [[I didn't say that.]] I heard that there were up to a few hundred people identified in Poland on the list of sanctions. So that it is not a large number of entities, we are talking about the number of entities subject to sanctions in Poland. [[If there aren't enough of them, how much did you secure?]] As for the government's actions - for these sanctions to be stricter, we need a change of national law. As far as I know, concrete proposals for tightening these sanctions, our options for the list of sanctions fell at a meeting with the opposition which took place at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister on Monday. If there is a need for more detailed explanations, if I have not explained everything, I will refer to it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u69	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the Minister's reply, I know it's not worth talking to him. So I'm gonna talk to someone else. In 2012, Bank Zachodni WBK, led by Mr Morawiecki, took part in an attempt to take over the key company of the State Treasury of Azota Tarnów. It was blocked by Donald Tusk's government. That's one fact. Fact two: 10 years later, Prime Minister Morawiecki is already the head of the Council of Ministers performing activities that delay the operation of the system of prosecuting the money of oligarchs in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will say this on behalf of myself and on behalf of the majority of Members in the Polish Parliament, I think. We believe deeply that these two facts have nothing to do with each other, but this requires credibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, if you create a law by which you can chase the oligarch's assets after 60 days - and that's actually Mr. Prime Minister's proposal - that means you don't want to race them. Therefore, I have a question: Will the Prime Minister support our law on the possibility of prosecuting these assets now? Not by amending the Constitution, because in this way these assets escape and are not confiscated. This is a test. Matthew Morawiecki's credibility. Nobody else gets in the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u71	I'm asking Minister Skuza to answer. [[Minister, we're becoming a paradise for them, they're acting now as you guys are chasing like this.]] [[Look who's talking.]] [[Think about what you're saying sometimes, not just who.]] Excuse me, Minister. You will allow us, Members, to create the Minister's comfort of speech. I also make sure that this is the kind of comfort that Members have.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u72	Dear Marshal, High Seym! To Mr Sienkiewicz's question about believing that these two things have nothing to do with each other, I can answer that they have nothing to do with each other. That's what I think. As far as the proposals for cooperation or support of the project are concerned, it is not up to me to express such a position, but, as I said, actions under the AML Act are already being carried out in cooperation with the services. And the proposal to further tighten sanctions, to apply stricter sanctions, even with the possibility of taking over these assets... Now, on the basis of EU sanctions, we are only talking about freezing. No country owns these assets and properties. There's a proposal from the government. I think it's worth leaning over. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u73	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u74	Minister! You seem to have misunderstood the point. The amount you listed as secured as a result of important actions of the Polish government is the amount for cleansing swabs for oligarch wives. This means that you have not secured anything, nothing, but you have proposed to extend the entire process by 60 days, creating the conditions for rewriting this capital, its escape from Poland. You don't really want to take those assets. We will not believe that you want to seize them, as long as you do not support a law that allows you to do so in 3 days, because in this Chamber you were able to introduce a law that broke the constitution in 48 hours, either abolished the Constitutional Tribunal or changed the system of the courts. Then 48 hours was enough for you. Why don't you do it in 48 hours now? [[What's the mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u75	I ask the Member not to speak when she is not asked to do so. [[But in what mode?]] In the same manner as the Members of the Law and Justice who ask for correction. Same mode. Thank you, Minister, for your comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u76	In fact, we reach out to Mr Morawiecki by offering the Prime Minister credibility. The only credibility is speeding up the process. If this help is denied... [[Laughter in the courtroom.]] [[Look who's talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u77	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Kubiak and Ms Anna Paluch. The question will be addressed to Minister Małgorzata Golińska and will address the state of work on the development of planning documents for Natura 2000 sites. Please, Mrs Marta Kubiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the ongoing discussion, there is a charge that the Natura 2000 programme is not implemented in time by Poland as a result of delays in setting up plans for conservation tasks and acts establishing Natura 2000 sites. I would therefore ask the Minister to present the state of play on the development of planning documents for the Natura 2000 areas and the appointing regulations, as well as on the grounds of possible delays and what action the government is taking to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Minister Margaret Golinska to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Members, This question concerns two separate issues: one is the designation of Natura 2000 areas, the other concerns the development of planning documents. With regard to the planning of conservation in Natura 2000 areas, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with our Nature Conservation Act, plans for conservation tasks are being established, so-called. PZO, as well as other planning documents with the scope of protective tasks plans. These are security plans for national parks, plans for forest equipment, plans for reserves, landscape parks. At the end of February this year. the planning documents covered approx. 62% all natural areas. Currently, a planning project is being carried out in the DG Environment as part of the PO IiŚ measures, which is expected to create nearly 300 further projects by 2023, plans for protective tasks. On the other hand, one issue should be pointed out that we have observed regarding the way these documents are drawn up in the 2007-2013 financial perspective. In particular, it was a lack of mandatory natural data collection on the basis of field inventory. Most of these documents contain records that there is a need for further recognition of protection items. This has led the European Commission to question Poland's way of developing its security objectives in the planning documents, and this in turn has far-reaching consequences for the current situation today, firstly because there may be problems with the proper way of protecting the areas concerned, and secondly, European co-financing for major infrastructure investments can also be called into question, e.g. road construction. The second topic, on the issue of the designation of areas, relates to a system of protection of endangered ingredients, i.e. the European Environment Network Natura 2000. In Poland, in the case of bird areas of Nature 2000, they are designated by regulation, after which information about their designation is communicated to the European Commission, while in the habitat areas this proposal is transmitted to the Commission, the Commission approves it and then we can act. In 2004, the Council Poland submitted a first list of 184 areas of Community importance. Unfortunately, at the same time a list was sent to the Commission, so-called. shadow letter, by NGOs, which caused the Commission to expect further additions from Poland. These additions took place in the following years. It is enough to say that in 2016, the European Commission pointed out that by that time no habitat area of Nature was established in Poland by regulation, which is incompatible with European Union legislation and our national law. It is important to emphasise that the first areas of Nature 2000 should be legally established as early as 2013 and, as I said, in 2016, when we included governments as a formation of Law and Justice, in spite of the law in force, not a single regulation was issued. We found this situation when we had to not only respond to current needs, but at the same time catch up that the previous government left us. The first steps were taken by the sleeper. Minister Szyszko, commissioning a wide inventory. Since then, we have continued the process of issuing regulations. I would like to point out that our difficult situation is also that, apart from the fact that we need to issue current documents, we need to catch up, which the previous government has left behind, while this process requires us to carry out behind inventory, to detail the data that were previously created and also questioned by the Commission as not sufficiently detailed. By the end of February this year. Under the Habitats Directive, 864 Natura 2000 habitat areas have been established in Poland, including for 849 sites, a 6-year time limit has already expired for the designation as special habitat protection areas. In 2021, we published 166 regulations, and now, in the first 2 months of 2022, another 120 regulations. This year we are planning to publish another 200 regulations, and according to the timetable we have passed to the European Commission, we should complete the process in 2023 and do everything, I am sure that we will be able to do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We already know today that the Commission is in favour of our actions, sees the powerful effort we have made, and I can promise you, for my part, that we will do our best to keep these deadlines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u82	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! Planning documents for Natura 2000 areas, properly owned by the managers of these areas of documents, i.e. protective tasks plans, is a sine qua non condition in order to carry out proper and environmentally sound management of these valuable areas. Therefore, it is of particular importance that the UK Government of the Right be wound up in this respect by assuming responsibility for the administration of the State in December 2015. The Minister did not say that, but I remember, we have information that 175 approved regulations of regional environmental directors were missing at the time to approve these plans for conservation tasks for nature. But we also remember one more point, namely that these natural areas were designated at the stage of preparation of Poland's accession to the European Union without carrying out a detailed inventory of nature. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hear from the chiefs: Member, where are the bats? 50 years ago, they were. And I wanted to ask the Minister about these inventory updates, because this is the kind of work that makes it possible to carry out all the necessary duties properly, in accordance with the regulations. This is a very difficult and labour-intensive thing, requiring prepared staff, which simply requires financial and organisational expenditure. How does this work work, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u83	We very much ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u84	Madam President, today we are actually colliding with a situation that many self-governments, but also serious naturalists, have already reported to us in the past because the activities carried out in previous years and the SDFs, for example from 2007, 2008 and 2009, have often been prepared on the basis of incomplete data, without proper inventory, sometimes on the basis of historical data which have not been verified as to whether they have retained any relevance at all. It is enough to say that today, when we carry out proper inventory on the basis of the GIOŚ methodology, a very comprehensive and very detailed methodology, we find such situations, that in the SDF just from 2008-2009 there is a record e.g. about the operation of some area, such as coastal dunes, in the amount of several hundred, e.g. 800 ha, and it turns out to us in the course of the inventory that it is just a few dozen, tops 100 ha. Similarly, the director general of environmental protection informed about this situation with regard to the flood areas in the Vistula valley, where it was estimated at that time on the basis of unknown, unverified data, that it is a several-sethektar surface, and today we are talking about a maximum of 100 hectares. And on the one hand, This obviously affects the - inappropriate - way of protecting or excessive protection of areas that should not be covered by this protection, on the other hand it may cause complications, because if there is an area on paper, a habitat that should be protected, then according to this we should not conduct and block economic development. On the other hand, there is another risk that we often forget, namely that the Commission accounts for us from the state that we reported at the time of the protection of the area concerned. If we've been reporting several-sethektar areas at the time, and today it's a few dozen hectares, then the Commission can ask us what you've done that you've lost these areas. And it will be difficult for us to demonstrate that this carelessness, ignorance and wrong attitude of the government of that time have caused this effect. Of course, we're catching up today. We are in constant contact with the Commission and this dialogue also covers these situations when we encounter such irregularities. I am convinced that the approach of our experts from the Regional Environment Directorates, the support of foresters, the General Environment Directorate and the GIOS methodology will allow us not only to catch up, but also to finally know what we are protecting, how we protect, where we protect, and to do what we do. That's right. And finally, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is worthwhile now, when it is often accused of not complying with the rule of law by the Government of Law and Justice, to remind, to ask, where was the government at the time, when it was violating EU law, without carrying out the tasks laid down by the Habitats Directives or by environmental national law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then, when we are accused of inappropriate nature conservation, let us ask how nature was protected by such disregard for inventory. Plus, there is still a time that we need to devote today to catching up and eliminating irregularities, and the money that we need to spend on re-invenation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be addressed to Minister Barbara Socha, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. It will cover the financing of a stay in a nursery, a children's club or a daily caretaker. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first question to be asked. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with Article The Ministry of Family and Social Policy conducts a policy of restoring the dignity of the family and supports seniors very strongly. And I wanted to thank the Ministry very much for this strategy and for the actions which are really well received by Poles and Poles. The current law on family care capital offers the possibility to finance the child's stay in a nursery, a children's club or a day care provider. Therefore, Minister, I have questions: Since when and where will applications be made? Where, to whom will these funds be transferred, whether to parents or institutions? Does the Ministry have data on how many families, how many young Poles, how many Poles will use it? How much is the co-financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u87	Mr Marek Polak will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In many municipalities in Poland, although not in all, there is already a similar benefit called a nursery. And I would like to ask whether parents enjoying this privilege will be able to apply simultaneously for a new benefit, which is to be co-financed for daycare, whether they will have to choose only one of the benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u89	Thank you very much. And now you answer Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me de facto read this information to be as precise as possible. The grant of a reduction in the child's stay fee in a nursery, a children's club or a daily caretaker will be granted to parents for a child attending a nursery, a club or a daily caretaker who does not benefit from family care capital, i.e. the first children in the family and children who are not entitled to care capital due to age, i.e. younger than 12 months or older than 36 months old. The grant will amount to a maximum of PLN 400 per child per month, but not more than the amount of the fee to be paid by the parent for the stay of the child in the nursery. The grant shall be granted to parents, legal guardians, other persons to whom the court has entrusted custody of the child. The application for the right to finance will be submitted by parents through the Social Insurance Institution, i.e. to ZUS through the PUE portal - ZUS, Emp@tia portal or electronic banking, i.e. as for other benefits, as for the benefit of the Family 500+ž. The funding will be transferred to the bank account of the day care provider or to the bank account of the day care provider or the children's club. It will be transmitted by the 20th day of each month for the previous month. It is a co-financing of PLN 400 and it is directed directly to the nursery. It is the responsibility of crèches to enter up-to-date information concerning children through the nursery register application. Through this register, the Social Insurance Institution will obtain information about the children entitled to this subsidy, financing. Since the beginning of the year, as a resort, we have been training, providing information for both crèches, children's clubs and institutions themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the moment, how important are the care systems for young children in order to enable, especially for the mother, the work to be carried out in the workplace at all, I don't think I need to talk. Given that there is increasing mobility of the workforce, so very often these people leave, they are beyond the possibility of family care. I would like to ask, what are the possibilities of these actions in rural areas? How does this develop in rural areas? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask about the possibility of raising funds from other sources than the state, I mean the European Union's funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u93	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Youth+ Programme, which is a programme aimed at creating as many childcare facilities as possible up to the age of 3, is a programme that has been developing rapidly since 2015, a programme that has created many thousands of childcare facilities up to the age of 3. It is now more than 200,000. Places. So in such dry numbers we are quite close to a certain saturation of these services. In fact, it's completely This is different if we take a closer look at regions, powiats or rural areas as opposed to urban areas. The introduction of a surcharge, the finalisation of a child's stay in a nursery causes a significant burden on local authorities, on the cost of maintaining their seats in daycares, because we are well aware that financing new investments, creating new places, which has been implemented so far thanks to the programmeMilch+z, this is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin, which is reported by local authorities, is later the cost of maintaining these places. We are well aware that costs, which on average in Poland amount to approximately 1200 PLN per child per month, are not costs that parents are able to bear. As a result, local authorities have largely co-financed this stay. Today, thanks to this additional payment, this amount of government funding of PLN 400, we have a significant impact on accessibility, and we believe that thanks to this also on the interest of these poorer, smaller self-governments in the creation of care. Because, apart from the fact that they will receive investment funds under the Small+Miles programme, the funding of this care will also make them able to maintain these facilities later. Of course, the second leg of this system, in addition to the funding amounts, is the caring capital, the family caring capital, that is, the new benefit to parents, whose goal is also to be able to finance the costs of sending children to institutions, care institutions for young children. With regard to issues related to EU funding, our intention, in some development, can be said to be another version of the programme "Milch+', is to coordinate the three sources of funding that were completely independent in previous years (the Bell) and, above all, in the previous EU financial perspective. These are funds from the European Social Fund. Today, our intention is to transfer them to maintain new places. It is about the existing funds from the state budget, which have just been earmarked for the funding of nursery care, and new funds from the NPO, which we hope will soon be mobilised. We will thus be able to announce a new call for these investment modules related to the creation of care facilities. In this way, an integrated comprehensive programme of development of childcare institutions under 3 years will operate in Poland, you can say, with a triple budget in relation to what has been in the last few years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Health, on whose behalf the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health will answer Mr Waldemar Kraska, and will concern medical assistance given to the Ukrainians. She will be the first to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk and, second, Mr Waldemar Andzel. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland, as the contemporary and greatest friend of Ukraine, has been standing almost side by side with it, providing military, humanitarian, medical, social and psychological assistance for a month, since the war has been underway. This is a very sad situation for Europe, but also for the whole world. It turns out that Poles - volunteers, government, local governments - have taken great steps to support those who are fleeing because they are afraid of war, afraid of death. I also wanted to thank the Ministry because, as far as we know, the Ministry has taken a number of support measures. People who have come to Poland are sometimes ill, sometimes treatment is interrupted and the Ministry has taken action in these matters. I would like to ask the Minister: What kind of benefits do refugees most often need? Did Poland receive a medical aid proposal for Ukrainians from other countries? How does the European Union support legal solutions on these issues? What is the issue of medical assistance provided by Poland to Ukrainian citizens who have stayed in their homeland, and what elements of medical protection are currently lacking in Ukraine? Minister! I'm asking for information. I talk to people who came to Poland and I know that they feel safe, they are taken care of. But how do these formal legal issues look on the part of the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u97	Thank you very much for asking the question. I now ask Minister Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I thank the Member for these questions, because I think they are important in the context of so many refugees who have found refuge in our country. I'm gonna concentrate specifically on those questions you asked. At this moment in our hospitals we treat all Ukrainian citizens who crossed our border after 24 February, as well as Polish citizens, so we provide them with health care. As of today, in Polish hospitals there are 2018 Ukrainian citizens, 1142 of whom are children. We know this wave of refugees These are mostly young moms with children, which is why these kids also go to our hospitals. Most people are hospitalized in two voivodships, just in border voivodships, i.e. Lubelskie voivodship and Podkarpackie voivodship; on the other hand, also in those voivodships where there are a large number of refugees, i.e. Malopolska, Mazowieckie and Dolnośląskie voivodships. 95% patients are patients who are in general hospitals, 5% - in psychiatric hospitals, 2% These are hospices and ZOLs. As far as the cases with which patients are present in these hospitals are concerned, they are mainly people who, due to the difficulty of arriving in Poland, have been subjected to e.g. coldness, coldness, people who are exposed to difficulties in traveling to Poland - as of today, there are 175 such people. We also have people who are infected with the coronavirus and require hospitalization - as of today there are 237 such cases. There are also Ukrainian citizens hospitalized because of infectious diseases - we know that unfortunately vaccinations in Ukraine are not at a high level - and such patients we have at the moment 242. In addition, 162 people are hospitalized or have already left the hospital because of pregnancy and the fact that they will give birth to young Ukrainians in our hospitals. On 15 March, the Minister of Health appointed a special representative to coordinate possible treatment of Ukrainian citizens in Western Europe. We have information about the willingness to receive these patients, and this exchange is already taking place. Most of the time, they're children with oncology. These patients have already gone to countries such as Italy, Ireland, Germany, Denmark and Norway. Recently, a transfer took place to Norway and Austria. Six children have been transported to Austria, today there will also be a transport or a transfer of six people, six young people to Austria. I must say that despite such a large declaration by the countries of the European Union that they want to accept these children for treatment, carers or parents of these children are reluctant to leave Poland. A significant example: when we selected 100 young Ukrainians, children for treatment abroad, only five parents decided to leave Poland to treat their children in the European Union. This is obviously related to different conditions, but this is the situation at the moment. When it comes to helping citizens who are in Ukraine, I will focus mainly on medical assistance. First of all, this assistance is carried out through the strategic reserve agency, we are talking about medicines and medical devices, several dozen tons have already been sent. We also launched a special e-mail address to which hospitals from Ukraine report their needs to us, that is: medicinesdlaukrain@mz. gov.pl, but this is the address for hospitals from Ukraine. We have received more than 450 such information and needs (The Bell) since the beginning of the conflict. All these needs are implemented in such a way that we report them to the Material Reserve Agency, which, of course, sends medicines to Ukraine. It is also done with the help of the European Union, which sends medicines to special hubs that are created in Poland. We then transfer it to Ukraine. As our citizens too, especially in the early stages of the conflict, wanted to devote a lot of medicines to the citizens of Ukraine, we have analysed it at the moment. This is already happening in a very orderly manner. Most often these are all the measures that are needed by Ukraine. We are in the current contact with the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, with the Embassy of Ukraine in Poland, therefore this assistance is not so ad hoc at the moment, only these are the specific things that are needed at the moment for people who are being treated or need medical assistance in Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As mentioned here, Poland is Ukraine's greatest friend, and true friends get to know each other in poverty. I would also like to ask, to get an answer to the question, how many newborns who were victims of the war were born in Poland since the first day of the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. I would also like to ask what infectious diseases can be vaccinated by Ukrainian citizens and how many people have been vaccinated so far. Please also provide information on courses covering the medical basis of the Polish language for Ukrainians performing medical professions organised by the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. They really are health care as much as possible, and there are many of them, and doctors, and nurses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u101	Thank you very much, sir. You will answer the question asked by Minister Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the epidemic situation in Ukraine at the time of the outbreak of armed conflict, the outbreak of war was such that it was the top of the fifth wave, i.e. those infections with the coronavirus was very much there. That is why we have introduced from the very beginning the possibility of vaccinating Ukrainian citizens who go to our country, at those large places where they are presently staying, as well as with family doctors. I regret to confirm that unfortunately these vaccinations are not very popular. This is really linked to the fact that these are the people who have experienced a great trauma, who have moved to another country, probably other problems at the moment. But we see that those people who have been vaccinated today are: the first dose - 3400 Ukrainian citizens, the booster dose - 2100. We've also put up over 140 grand. Their referrals, i.e. they wanted to inoculate themselves. We have actually directed the vaccines to every point where the Ukrainian citizens are staying at the moment, and at these large points we have also organised stationary points so that they can be vaccinated. I think that this week a regulation of the Minister of Health will be issued to vaccinate Ukrainian children. We know that two years ago there was a fairly large outbreak of measles in Ukraine. These children, who are now estimated to be quite a lot, more than 700,000, in our country, are about to be sent to Polish schools, to Polish kindergartens, so here we are betting on family doctors. The NFZ has prepared a special product that will encourage family doctors to join this action to vaccinate the youngest children. We know that it happens that the children do not have this documentation, because it was a time of escape from the battlefield, you can say, and this documentation does not exist. Here, of course, are the guidelines of consultants for infectious diseases of children's age. If the children do not have any documentation, they are vaccinated as if they do not have any vaccinations at all. That's why we're monitoring this situation very closely right now. These vaccinations are not mandatory, because our law on the law on infectious diseases provides that only after 3 months of stay in the country the child enters the mandatory vaccination calendar. But we're gonna be doing some action to get our parents, especially the parents, who are giving their kids to school, to preschool them to do the vaccinations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that this week will be implemented and this possibility will certainly be recommended to these children, it will take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going back to the fifth in the order of the question. It will be addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, on whose behalf the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration will answer Mr. It concerns the systematic and comprehensive assistance of the Polish government given to war refugees from Ukraine, including the implementation of the law on assistance for citizens of Ukraine. The first question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak and, second, by Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Polish government responded to the influx of war refugees from Ukraine in the first hours after Russia's attack on the country. The process of reception and assistance of refugees is coordinated by the voivodships. They help local governments, NGOs. The Poles showed great help to war refugees from Ukraine, opening their hearts and homes for them, including themselves in the action of relief organizations. And this is a good time to thank you very sincerely for your sensitivity, your indifference to the needs of people who had to give up all their possessions to save their lives and their loved ones. The government has prepared a special law, a comprehensive law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict within the country. This is the first such holistic solution in the EU. The law has just been amended to make this aid real, because we want to respond to the needs that are particularly manifest as war refugees are influxed. These are mostly women and children. It's supposed to be an act that's supposed to serve real help. Poland is praised on the international stage, as shown by numerous thanks from many sides. Let me quote from The Sunday Times: It was Poland that was right, warning against Russia, which the West did not want to listen to, and it is not apostate to Western values, as France and Germany claimed, but a defender of them. Minister! Thank you very much for the great work done on this bill, but above all in organizing a real, concrete assistance to refugees from Ukraine. I kindly ask you to inform me about the scale of this aid, which has so far been provided by the Polish government.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u105	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking Minister Paweł Chefner for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, this speaker has already been mentioned on several occasions about the actions that the voivods have taken as representatives of the government in the field in relation to the coordination of many cases, with NGOs and with local governments. At the moment we are at the stage of implementation of statutory, systemic solutions. And I can say that when it comes to broadcasting the PESEL number to Ukrainian citizens, until yesterday, during the first few days - today is a week - 301,000 were registered. persons. These procedures continue, I am freshly after a video conference with the voivodships, where we agreed that in the coming days equipment, so-called. mobile points will go to the municipalities so that the municipalities can increase the possibility of registering people. This will also help Polish citizens to handle their daily affairs in offices, so that there are no queues. Although queues are a natural issue in such situations, with such a scale of reception of refugees during almost 2 weeks. So that this equipment will be in the near future where it hasn't gone yet. He's already in big cities. Since Saturday, mobile ZUS points have also started throughout Poland. I think it is also worth saying that at this central point, at the National Stadium in Warsaw, where there are the most refugees in one place, where there are positions that support refugees, there will also be a central mobile point for all issues that the ZUS can achieve with refugees in one place. Thus, after receiving the PESEL number, it will also be possible to apply immediately on issues related to the ZUS. Such mobile points will also arise throughout the country. With regard to issues relating to the law, at the moment we are also preparing to develop tools, together with local authorities, which will allow the law to be implemented better. We already have the first experience after a week and a half of operation of the law, and we also have the first measures that have gone to the municipalities. Municipalities and local governments create special subaccounts. They must prepare all the documentation confirming that this assistance has been given to refugees. The first funds have already gone to the municipalities, from Friday we pay them. Where there is no doubt about formal issues, these measures are already in place. I think in the next few days this amount is going to be growing rapidly. It's about the aid fund for municipalities. From tomorrow we will also begin the process, say, to systematize all this volunteer work in the field. Each voivode will meet with institutions that have helped since the first day of the war, and the costs incurred by non-governmental organisations will be compensated for by the Assistance Fund, which is established by means of a speciality, so that anyone who has incurred such expenses in connection with the assistance of refugees can ask for reimbursement of the costs incurred. In addition, we are in the process of preparing for further waves of refugees. We hope that it will not be necessary to react on the same scale as in the first wave, but we must be prepared for the second wave, the third wave, and therefore we are preparing. We have a lot of reserves for group accommodation centers. We are creating this in cooperation with NGOs and local governments, but we are also preparing this last line of defence. If there was a need, for example. to dispose of large halls in the localities, we also prepare such shopping which will allow these halls to be equipped with equipment that is needed within a few hours. We have this checked on a country-wide scale, and we continue to work every day on all kinds of scenarios. They didn't surprise us. Of course, we would like the war in Ukraine and the Russian aggression to be over, and we wish it to the Ukrainians, but on the other hand, the Polish state, in cooperation with all the organizations that want to help, must be ready to help at the next stages of this aggression. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u108	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'll start with why we have to help at all. Because we as Poland have to help. Ukraine is fighting, but I think it is fighting not only for its own independence, its own sovereignty, but also for the sovereignty of the whole European world, the world of democracy, independence. That's most of all. Russia, which attacked - let us not say that it was Putin, because it was Russia that attacked Ukraine - fights not only against soldiers, but above all bombards, destroys private, civilian places. These are schools, old people's homes, we know that. There is a tragedy and we, as Poles, must help. And that's the help we're giving. Thank you so much for your help. I wanted to say briefly, Mr. Marshal, about a visit from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly Bureau of 1.5 weeks ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We visited with parliamentarians from different countries, different options - from France, Sweden, Austria, Italy - Przemyśl. First the station, then we visited Medyka, Korczowa, we were in the Kiev Hall, where the government bought places where there were shops before. Then we went to Stalowa Wola, where the local government of Stalowa Wola receives children with disabilities. Later these children go to Poland. We saw the help provided by the hostess's circles, by the volunteers, but most of all we saw the Border Guard check that people unverified came to us. During these checks, those who are being hunted even by Interpol lists are caught in security. Then we saw the help of all organizations that are focused around local governments. We were also in Bojanów, where Caritas is already receiving children from the orphanage. There are dozens of children who have already gone to school and for which there is help, an apartment. It's about them not knowing what's going on out there in Ukraine. Dear Minister, It was a great surprise to those parliamentarians, and they asked how we could do it, and they were shocked at it. Yesterday at the meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on-line everyone thanked and expressed great appreciation for the Polish government. They know what's going on. After all, this is already over 2 million refugees. These are numbers that Europe had no idea about before. I also have a question for the Minister about the addition, maybe, but such a basic, indication of what the Ministry is still doing. Does the West, which speaks so highly of us today, help us, Poland? [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Do we have any real help besides words of appreciation? We also hear that later the movement of these refugees, for example to Germany, is not so easy. What are these relationships like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u109	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u110	Thank you. I would like to start by paying attention to the safety aspect. That is to say, many times at the border there has been such a situation that people who, due to the security of Poland, should not go through this border according to the procedures which are applied on a daily basis, have been accepted in this situation. Therefore, the safety of Poland and Poles is still our highest priority. We need to talk about the large police activities involved in order to be in places where there are most people, precisely because of the possibility of committing crimes that result from a war situation. The police in many places are not uniformed, so very often it is not apparent that this physical police support is in these places. The police also act in such a way that they verify everyone who comes to accept refugees. I mean, if there's a coach coming to the collective accommodation. whether the bus or the car is being checked at the police base, whether they have been convicted of crimes or suspected of crimes that occur in such situations. I think it is also necessary to thank uniform services for the great work they do to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles when receiving refugees from Ukraine. As far as international relations are concerned, this issue is primarily coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are addressing these issues that you have been talking about, also at various kinds of international meetings. I personally attended a meeting with the German ambassador two days ago, with whom I spoke about it. I think it is worth making it clear today that there is a need for other European Union countries to present a concrete offer for refugees. This cannot be an offer like that for refugees, immigrants in 2015-2016 when they were placed in refugee camps. It is extremely important to present an offer. The first countries have already presented such an offer. The United Kingdom has put forward a proposal to adopt 100,000. refugees who would reach the British families. The British families have expressed their willingness to do so. This shows that a Polish model, which we have adopted, including the Polish model of funding the reception of refugees, is adopted in other countries. I think that today the most important thing is for our international partners to understand that the wave of refugees that has reached us is a completely different wave than the waves of migration that have so far appeared in Europe. I think that when there is an offer (the bell), many Ukrainians will be willing and will be able to get this help also in other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the deteriorating economic situation of Poles due to the armed conflict in Ukraine, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may not last more than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. A representative of the applicant may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers may not be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Andrzej Grzyb's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many points prior to this information were devoted to the situation related to the war waged by Russia Ukraine and to all the problems involved, and in particular to the help of refugees. Millions of them went to Poland. Here they received help, in which our citizens, Poles, NGOs, charities, volunteers from voluntary firefighters, people who are sometimes not known by name, as well as the Polish state were most involved. All of them should be warmly thanked for their openness, for their heart, and also for giving them a helping hand. On the other hand, the consequences of this war also shift to increasing inflation, rising prices of energy carriers, prices of basic food products, as well as breaking supply chains, including supply chains that determine the efficient functioning of industry, companies, but also supplies. Supply. We had examples of this, although it was an accident related to the fuel case. We all feel fuel prices because they've gone very high. True, there has been some sort of correction, but all indications are that they will remain at this level, in particular the price of diesel, the deficit of which is projected worldwide. Entrepreneurs, in turn, are lost in the thicket of tax regulations, but also the changes announced in this connection. This is also the consequence of the Polish Order. And here I would like to quote that entrepreneurs from numerous organizations called for Poland's Load to be suspended for a year, with the exception of provisions concerning the amount of free and increased tax thresholds, because they are having trouble interpreting both tax and health contributions issues and other provisions. There are announcements of changes, among others. signalled by the Ministry of Finance. The issue of housing is one of the most important issues for young people, Polish families, and it is an element of calm thinking about the future. Unfortunately, at present, the cost of mortgage credit Dramatic growth. Of course, this is also the result of inflation and rising interest rates. The cost of a loan instalment of 100,000. PLN increased by 215 PLN between October and March this year. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u113	Excuse me. Can I ask you to allow me to speak with you? [[Yeah, we're sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u114	In a situation where the loan was borrowed at the rate of 300,000. PLN, and in this amount mortgage loans are granted on average, the cost of one instalment increased by PLN 645-646. This, of course, means that measurable costs will be a problem at a time when rising interest rates will translate into instalments of loans that will have to pay back families that have borrowed loans. The cost of construction is also increasing. I would add that we imported more than 1300 thousand from Ukraine and Russia in 2021. t steel. What's it gonna be like this year? We don't know that. There are also growing costs related to other elements, which translate into construction costs, so individual construction will also be reduced. Another issue is the high price of motor fuels, including gas, which translates not only into Poles' bills, but also into production costs in agriculture, in particular the crazy increase - three times, four times - of fertilizer prices, which raises disbelief among farmers in Poland who have to accept it. At the same time there are chronic deficiencies in the supply of coal for gardening farms in southern Wielkopolska, where there is a huge greenhouse-folio hole and where there are multi-hectare crops. Some gardeners insist that they have coal supplies per day or two days. They lend each other, somehow compensate each other, but call on us to ask the government to develop a system of logical supply of coal so that these multi-hectare crops, which require a great deal of effort, are not destroyed. It must also be said that both Ukraine and Russia, which is the attacker in this war, are suppliers of cereals. 29% exported wheat comes from these markets, for example. Algeria in 49% (The bell) is supplied by Ukraine. I'd like, among other things. Ask, Mr. Marshal, whether the government provides for measures to weaken the effect of increasing production costs on Polish farms. While there are announcements of subsidies for fertilisers, although they are not yet approved in the form of public aid by the European Commission, this is not the only element that increases these costs of production. Secondly, will the regulations concerning Polish entrepreneurs and the functioning of companies be organized? Will there be a regulation concerning e.g. stopping the regress for late execution of investments in transport, construction and furniture industry? We lost about 100,000. employees who have returned. They are workers from Ukraine who have returned to Ukraine to defend their homeland there. Moreover, it is an investment climate. The industry has dropped by almost 7 points in the last month, in transport by 15 points, and in construction by 7 points. These are disturbing signs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And will programmes be put in place to help, on the one hand, buy housing or build housing so as not to lead to a regression in these markets? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u115	Thank you very much. The issues presented by Mr Andrzej Grzyb will be addressed by representatives of the two ministries. Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk will speak on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. In the second place, Minister Piotr Uściński will speak on behalf of the Ministry of Development and Technology. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u116	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If we are talking about food and food safety, we need to look at a few aspects. This question is very important because in recent times we have heard from many sides, also political, but also from social activists, threatening Poles with food insecurity in the country. This great misinformation, which is supposed to lead to panic, has been caused, for example, in the fuel market. As you know, there is no shortage of fuel in Poland and there is no shortage. On the other hand, the panic caused the situation of logistics deficiencies. You are well aware that many drivers who provided supplies, logistics throughout Europe have left for war. In this situation, the operation of the Russian services, because so to speak, led to a situation of instability in the fuel market, but not in the raw material itself. First of all, it was about the logistics and supply of these fuels in a situation of increased demand for these fuels, because citizens became afraid, a difficult situation began. And thank you very much for this question, because it is very important in the context of food security. The point is that as a whole of the High House, we should talk about numbers and rely on these numbers. Of course, we all see the rise in fertiliser prices, we see the rise in energy prices, the rise in fuel prices. These are the basic things that accompany agricultural production. On the other hand, we are also well aware of the increase in agricultural fetus prices. And that's two things to compare. It is necessary to check in the case of a farmer who was still growing in the previous year and is reaping today, the yield in the form of money, the sale of these goods, whether it was a critical year, whether the years we need to consider in the context of food security are only coming now, whether there will actually be a problem with prices in the context of low prices and lack of food or in the context of high food prices, because these are two different things. Let's start with the food safety situation. If in 2020 the export record for agri-food products amounted to more than EUR 34 billion, if the export record was repeated and added EUR 3 billion, i.e. more than EUR 37 billion for agri-food exports, I think that this proved to be a great success of Polish agriculture. But no, there is information that Poland sells food. It's another destabilization and misinformation. And again they bow down, ladies and gentlemen, numbers. This is a record of exports, but surplus agri-food products. If Poland produces about 34, 35 million tons of grain, and the domestic market needs around 80% these cereals, that's 20%. We're exporting. It's pretty much in every other business anyway. For beef 25% production is for Poland, for the Polish market and 75% for export. Other products: poultry - 40% on the domestic market and 60% on the domestic market for export; milk - 80% production on the domestic market and 20% on exports; sugar - 60% production on the domestic market and 40% for export. [[How much is this sugar now?]] It is extremely important that we show food security in terms of wealth in this food. There is no sale of Polish food. Poland is food-safe and I would like us all to repeat this as a whole High Chamber, because it is incredibly important. On the other hand, when it comes to discussing prices, price increases, this is a very different discussion, because food deficits and food prices are two different topics. Let's systematize. Poland is food safe. He is an exporter of his surplus and there will be no situation in which Poles will go to shops and on shelves there will be no basic products. These are disinformations that lead to such a situation. The Russians, watching this debate, would perhaps be pleased if we fought in such a way if any of the parliamentarians pointed to food shortages in Poland. I'm really glad that question came out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, there is a question to consider about the food situation and the future of exports. It is also about the situation on African markets and European markets. And here we have to say explicitly: the European Union must move away from many of the green agendas, it must move away from many of the assumptions that lead to the elimination of production in Europe. The role of Poland is also here, and I am very happy that in these areas of lost Europeans, Poles will be able to sow grain, they will be able to produce, because only in this way are we able to secure Poland food, secure Europe into food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u117	Thank you very much. Minister Piotr Uściński will be the second to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u118	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer questions about business and business support, I must say that the deregulation packages and changes for entrepreneurs that were adopted in the previous term of office have made it easier for entrepreneurs to operate and operate on the market all the time. It was also shown by a pandemic. The deregulation package 100 changes for companies or the business constitution together with the Business Law provide such legal basis for the operation of enterprises. Business Constitution was a package of laws - I will remind you, because not everyone in the previous term was and may not remember - whose aim was reforming, simplifying business rules. The changes she has made concern areas such as business relations with offices, quick handling of cases, setting up a company, suspension of activities, rules of economic law and business obligations. These changes, which entered into force in 2018, caused the entrepreneurs to cope very well during the pandemic. Polish entrepreneurs, the Polish economy of pandemics survived. Last year's increase of 5.7% GDP is one of the best growth in the European Union. Despite the war and the current situation, independent experts estimate that GDP growth in Poland will reach 3% this year. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Soboń of the Ministry of Finance announced further changes, which will also help entrepreneurs at the moment, because today this announced reduction of PIT from 17% to 12% of which up to 120 thousand. zł is real support. The elimination of the mid-class relief in this situation will also make life easier for entrepreneurs and, most importantly, for entrepreneurs, changes in health contributions. With a linear tax, the cap on the deduction of contributions is PLN 8700, with a 50% cap on the roar. paid contributions, with a tax card limit of 19% contributions paid. This is of course a proposal, it is not yet a project in the Seym, it can be consulted. We are open to consultation with the whole public, with the coalition Members and with the opposition Members, so I ask you to analyse this document and possibly support it in the Sejm when it hits. [[Voice from the room: He's not here yet. What should I analyze?]] In terms of housing, because there was this question about housing, how we would help in taking loans - mainly, if I heard correctly, the question was about borrowers and their situation. You can say it's perfect, because on May 26th, we're going to enter into the law on guaranteed housing credit, which we passed in Parliament last year. Thank you, because she was supported not only by the ruling coalition, but also by a large part of the opposition. This is the main support instrument for housing without own contribution. Let me remind you that BGK will be able to guarantee up to 100,000. PLN of this own contribution, you will be able to use it. Here we eliminate for Poles such a barrier to access to credit. We continue to work on the next solutions announced earlier by the government. I will remind you that in this respect it is still functioning in BGK, but it is the Ministry of Finance responsible for this, the Creditor Support Fund, which helps in the event of liquidity loss. In such a situation as we have now, when these loan instalments are increasing due to the increase in interest rates when they occur, and may occur, the loss of liquidity of borrowers, this tool can be particularly well used. These tools are functioning. Thank you so much for these questions. We are taking part in the discussion, and I will be happy to answer your questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. If one of the ladies and gentlemen of the House wishes to join the floor, please. If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u120	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think that this situation, which is at the moment, has its origins earlier, in a bad policy. Of course, we know that we have inflation, terrible inflation, Mr President, and you know that too. [[Bad politics, bravo, finally.]] This policy, which was pursued in the European Union by Mr Donald Tusk, by Mrs Merkel... [[Voice from Wojciechowski's room.]] ...also because of Mr. Waldemar Pawlak, who signed with Gazprom, led to this situation. To this situation where Putin is the only player in Europe's largest gas industry. And this policy of patting on the back in the European Union... [[Praise Putin, praise him.]] For you, perhaps, Mr Putin, and for me, he is the criminal Putin, Mr Putin. To me, he's a criminal. That's why I'm here for you... And Mr Grabarczyk says that this is Mr Putin, for you. Not for me. For me, it's - because of what's happening right now - the criminal Putin. [[Applause]] [[He says praise.]] [[The voice from the hall: He said: Praise.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, coming back to this statement, all this policy has led to the situation that we have right now. We have a cost, but this is because of your bad policy in the European Union. That's why we're here on case one: gas, whose prices have increased so much. This is Putin. Second situation: CO [[Voice from the room: Where's the money for the issue?]] This is your wrong action. Your bad policy has led to this. More things that are happening today: Russian fake news in Poland, what happened to the fuel. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing else worked but that Russian, Russian fake news was released in Poland, which led to the fact that the price of fuel increased so much. [[And Bobby got scared.]] The same thing happened to the grain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nothing else worked, just fake news...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u121	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u122	...which caused information that there would be no grain. Minister, please confirm that there will be no shortage of grain in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u123	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! We agree with Mr Andrzej Grzyb's thesis and questions. PiS has been responsible for the Polish economy for 6 years. All of your negligence today is reflected in our problems. [[Applause]] As for what we are talking about: we are in solidarity with Ukraine, but we have problems and these problems should be resolved by the government. What's our situation? PGE, net profit in 2021 - PLN 100 million, in 2022 - PLN 40 times more, PLN 4 billion. [[Voice from the hall: Looting Poles.]] Increase in energy prices - 54%... [[It's a yeast.]] ...gas - 500-600% for operators. [[Fat PiS cats take bonuses.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] Inflation in February - 9.2%. Even higher prices of materials for production - 30-50%. Besides, Poles pay more and more in shops. They pay and cry. Also family businesses, cooperatives, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u125	Excuse me, Member. Can this screaming step aside for a moment? Especially since she's speaking as a member of the opposition. You should not interfere with her speech. [[We're helping.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u126	Family businesses, cooperatives, small and medium-sized enterprises are also having difficulty implementing public procurement contracts because their cost is much higher than the contractual price. For these reasons, there may be mass termination of contracts up to 1 year. For no one will want to carry them out and expose himself to loss. There is no revalorisation mechanism in the Public Procurement Act for contracts up to 1 year. Mass termination of contracts can cause inter alia. the lack (Bingle) of military supply, schools and hospitals in food - this is a black scenario - and the bankruptcy of companies, which could lead to redundancies of employees. I ask: Does the government monitor this situation? Does it intend to amend the rules on public procurement so that companies do not fall and that there is no wave of redundancies? That's the most important question. We are talking about how to help Polish entrepreneurs, and the state is still talking about this policy and this rhetoric, for six years now, like a mantra. Take care of solving the problems of entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left, will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think this is the time. Today for such disputes. Let's find a solution together. Minister Uściński said that there will be new laws in the near future. We will process them after the holidays, we will work to get the Poles and Poles to pay back the money they deserve, which they are right to earn. Today we are facing a situation that is actually very expensive. Many products, materials threatened not by 9-10% as inflation shows, and by a few dozen percent. That's a huge problem. Fuel prices, gas prices are unfortunately caused by war and what is happening in the markets. I think it is also the stubbornness of OPEC countries that do not want to increase production. There's a problem here too. There should be lobbying from large countries, which are concentrated in the G7, in the G20, so that the OPEC countries will increase their oil extraction as soon as possible, so that we can count on a lower price. Minister! All these tax cuts are just another hit in the local government. I would like to ask, because the state is saying a little bit: let's lower, let's lower, whether the laws will follow, which will increase the participation of local governments in PIT and CIT. Today the budgets of local governments such as the local authorities of Jelenia Góra, the Krkonoše District, the municipalities Podgórzyn, Karpacz, Szklarska Poręba or the city of Legnica unfortunately do not get tense. My predecessor was talking about tenders, prices. Today, what the local government had previously planned in budgets, completely (the bell) does not reach. Minister, we're really open to working together, but give this money to local governments too, give them a breath. That is why I ask once again: Will these tax laws lead to an increase in money for local governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u129	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! It turns out that our economic life is ruled by fake news today, since it is the fake news that depends on everything that is happening in Poland. Today in agriculture we have a really dramatic situation and saying that it's fake news that caused the price of fuel to be high, it's embarrassing, really. It's Orlen who sets the price of fuel, not fake news. [[Applause]] Fake news sets the price of fuel? Fake news sets the price of fertilizer? [[If no one's in charge, yes.]] Like no one's in charge. Someone's in charge. [[Implosibilism.]] So let us not say that we have a surplus of food. Maybe we did, but today we have a situation: you go into the field, you sow, you sow, you have to collect. If you can't fertilize, if you already have a year dry, because the drought is huge right now, and we already know. What kind of crops we're going to have and what kind of crops we're going to have... Today Ukraine and Russia are one third of the world's cereal production. That's where the price of what's going to be in the world will be. You're saying today that we're a productive force in agriculture. Yes, we can be, only farmers need help. We don't just have to scare them, we don't have to promise, we have Commissioner Wojciechowski in the European Union who was supposed to perform miracles there. We promised cheap fuel for farmers -we gave 10 PLN, now we have established the price of fertilisers - they are also state companies. They're state-owned companies, it's not fake news that caused the price of the saltpeter, the price of urea to be 4-5 thousand. zł. It's unimaginable. None of the farmers buy this expensive fertilizer because they can't afford it. In the meantime, we say we're gonna have a surplus of food and we're gonna trade. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to have some imagination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Honest truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhal Urbaniak, the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I will start by saying that I am pleased with Minister Kaczmarczyk's declaration that there is a will not to introduce in Poland the European Green Deal, which can be lethal for Polish agriculture, Polish energy. Only the problem is that at these prices, at least in a moment the European Green Character, i.e. The reduction in the scale of use of fertilisers will be introduced by itself, because it will simply not be possible for farmers to do so. But also to the point: as people who influence our country, we must face the truth that the situation that is in Ukraine today will be negative for the Polish economy. We see this today: the prices of fertilisers I mentioned, the deficiencies in feed, which may also occur, the prices of gas, fuel, building materials or steel. That's what we're seeing today, and it could get worse. One threat is the deepening of the difficult situation in the housing market. Years of mass demand for apartments also intensified regular migration, mainly from the East, and now even deeper crisis, which we have with refugees, will lead to the situation that soon only the richest ones will be able to afford housing in Poland. A young employee or student will often only be able to dream of renting them. It's gonna be problematic. Even if prices may drop slightly due to the chaos we have in connection with the Russians' attack on Ukraine, the trend will probably not change. We already know that rental prices have increased by 1/3 in recent weeks. That is exactly what I would like to draw attention to, because this problem will grow and the situation with the difficult will become tragic. The problem of our own place for young people will be the problem of the next decade. What action does the government want to take on this matter? Because we already know what kind of projects you had, like the Living + ¿ program, but it ended in a flop. What's next?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice will now speak. There you go. [[Like a housing cooperative in New Thought because people are waiting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a number of factors that have recently been caused by the indulgence of Members of the opposition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The opposition rules.]] When there was a pandemic, when we came out of the pandemic, a hybrid war began. Remember when you rode to the eastern border, how the MP ran with a commercial, how you wanted to let migrants imported by Lukashenka into Poland? Today we would be flooded with the waves of those migrants and we would have trouble accepting war refugees from Ukraine. Remember that? Remember, thank you. [[They're all gone.]] Later, the National Plan for Reconstruction in the European Union lies. You did everything you could to block it so that Poland would not receive the funds. For Poland to be punished. [[Do you hear yourself?]] It's also an expensive factor. And the green order in the European Union? Denial of coal from the Polish economy, the coal that Mr Grzyb is asking about today, which farmers are looking for, the shift and dependence on Russian gas, the construction of pipelines, dependence on Russian oil, dependence on Chimer Putin, because if it raises the price, this price will translate into the price that Poles have to pay. [[Who's in charge here, in this country?]] When was the position taken in the Sejm to eliminate the carbon dioxide charge for this difficult time, how did you vote? No, no, no, no, no, Because you want Poles to pay more. And at the end of the movie... [[A Czech movie.]] [[A Czech movie.]] ...at the end of my speech, the question to the Minister: How did the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development react to the sharp rise in production prices, fuel prices and energy prices? You are laughing, and unfortunately the Poles must have expensive prices because of your conduct. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u135	Thank you very much. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of today's current information about the economic situation of Poles is extremely serious, and Members of the governing option make a hucka out of it. They've been making the broadcasts of the day for months, the same ones, and they've been doing fake news, and the situation is extremely serious. [[Applause]] The economic situation of Poles is a reflection of the condition of companies, and this has deteriorated dramatically since last year and you need to be reminded constantly why it is so. This is due to inflation, due to the drastic rise in fuel and energy prices that you did not want to compensate for. You didn't want to. There were drafts of opposition laws ready. You weren't interested in it at all. To this came a hopelessly prepared and forcefully introduced new tax system, which in fact charged taxpayers with a new tax, which you called a health contribution, and the local authorities drastically reduced their own income. He was forced into action, even though you knew about the real threat of war in the fall. You were familiar with the invasion plans. You have done nothing, and you should prepare the economy for difficult times. [[Voice from the room: you're lying.]] Entrepreneurs and opposition, of course... [[Game in the O.R.]] You're not gonna scream the truth. Entrepreneurs and opposition - we all called for reason. We called for a stop to what you called order, which turned out to be chaos and great distress for entrepreneurs. As it turned out, we were right to appeal because you are slowly withdrawing from it. And today the reality is that local governments and entrepreneurs agree that the drastic increase in costs makes them unable to make investments. And the income you took from them and converted into so-called. The strategic fund of the Polish Order is absolutely not enough. Cost increases are already above 50% as far as these investments are concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal, as the Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska urges, to value this and to extend the time of implementation...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u137	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u138	...but you want to take income, and politically, you want to run local governments with subsidies. You put politics above the welfare of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u139	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński. Ladies and gentlemen, I've taken over the proceedings. We have a problem, and if there's a problem, it's better to introduce him. We have to finish everything, according to the rules, after 90 minutes, by the time we get there. 13. Then we have to vote and consider five projects. There are 34 more people who want to speak. [[But we started with 15 minutes because the questions...]] Okay, just, as you know, we have 90 minutes to process this point together. You, Minister, know that. We're just not gonna make it. So here's the thing: we can leave it for two minutes, but then don't be offended by me when I react so that after two minutes I'll just... [[One and a half minutes is good.]] Yeah, I'm just asking you not to make a fuss. I'm asking you kindly. We're entering a limit of one and a half minutes. I'm gonna try to do it. That's polite, but I'll cut. [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] We're changing the limit to 1.5 minutes and we're leaving. Mr Jan Szopiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For a few days the representatives of the government have provided media with information confirming that Polish Load - the brilliant child of Mr Kaczyński, Morawiecki, Ziebra and the entire United Right is indeed a bubble. And since 1 July this year, some of its recipes will be thrown into the basket, and some will be moved upside down. I understand that Minister Nowak presented too much information on this matter yesterday, and that's why he stopped being a minister today. [[Applause]] The fact that Polish Load is a bubble and de facto ridicules Poland, my club Lefty and I have spoken from this place many times from the very beginning. The understanding of this fact, also by the Prime Minister and the entire Ministry of Finance, is quite late, but it is a novelty. Therefore, I ask you to answer two questions: Is it true that the government will change tax rules again during the tax year and again take tax relief away from taxpayers? And question two. Who: the Ministry of Finance or the Prime Minister's firm will return to the entrepreneurs the money they will have to spend again on legal services for subsequent laws created on their knees, which even the employees of the Ministry of Finance do not understand? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u142	If I could ask for a written reply... I don't know if I'm gonna see it coming, but I hope so. I'm asking you to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u143	Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The topic discussed by our club, specifically by Mr Grzyb, is of course very topical, very important and very spacious, so to speak. And I would like to touch - because this is the only way to approach this issue in 1 minute or 1.5 minutes - the topic of pensioners and pensioners. Unfortunately, Poland is getting very old - it is sad, but true, a statement. There are already more than 9 million pensioners and pensioners in Poland, and there are over 7 million pensioners themselves. The farmers' pensioners I want to ask you about are over 1 million. In the previous item, we asked about the amount of the agricultural pension and its valorisation. Well, this last valorization, so strongly announced, 7%, the highest brought, as it turns out, in the case of agricultural pensions only a few-, tens of gold increases. This, of course, is a huge poverty and a huge difficulty. We need a system change. In my opinion, no valorization is capable of raising this agricultural pension enough to be worthy of being called that. There is a proposal with which farmers themselves turn to me to calculate their agricultural pension in a two-component way, it is the contribution part and the income part, as was the case for trees, i.e. agricultural income, which today can be calculated from VAT bell accounts... I think that would be fairer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The armed conflict in Ukraine has caused not only for us, but also for many other countries, including outside Europe, an increase in fuel prices, gas, electricity, food and industrial products. In turn, more than half of entrepreneurs, and it is not always business-related with Russia, Ukraine or Belarus, are afraid of the negative effects caused by the war, especially transport and logistics companies, and uncertain time leads to more prudent decisions of both business and investment, contributing to economic slowdown. There is also no lack of opinion that war refugees who decide to stay in Poland, feeding the labour market, will influence the rise in unemployment and also the inhibition of wage growth. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister whether these concerns are justified and can prove to be realistic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to his estimate, as I just found out, the president of the development fund, the economic downturn due to... [[Minister of Development.]] Minister of Development, yes. ...slowing the Polish economy as a result of the conflict in Ukraine will be about 1% GDP, i.e. about PLN 25 billion, but these losses already overlap, as we talked about, the long-term negligence of your government, the PiS government, Poland's unfortunate government, inflation, expensive (Applause) and all together. I know that for you this is a time called Polish gold, but it is enough to remind you that in February only the debt of the State Treasury increased by PLN 7.7 billion and amounted to, this is a record amount, over PLN 1144 billion. This will have an impact on the economic downturn, and on a micro scale it will mean less investment, less jobs and affect citizens' portfolios. Today we want to know the answer to the following questions: Why is the cost of the enormous wealth of energy and fuel companies (the bell) borne by Poles and Poles, because you rob their pockets as well as other economic operators? Do you have a strategy for a shorter but longer time horizon? It's not the art of spending money today, but it's the art of spending it so that it's not pro-inflationary, it's pro-development. Thirdly, whether the government has reliable data on the impact this conflict will have on the Polish economy, specifically on debt, inflation, on the level of investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u150	And finally, why don't you unlock the giant KPO money? All you have to do is change the bill overnight and get the judges back to work...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u152	...the wrongly thrown out, and 770 billion will be pumped into the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] A minute more... Well, we agreed on something, right? I'm good, nice, cultural. [[Today it is.]] The minute you left, with a smile on your face, that's what I'm saying. Here you go, Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The huge cost, inflation and high fuel prices, the very expensive bread already here all my previous speakers spoke and it aroused emotions on the right side of the room. I'd like to ask you about the upcoming new academic year, the new school year. Many students from small towns and villages learn in large agglomerations. Unfortunately, rental prices have increased dramatically in terms of apartments and stations. First question, Minister: Is there any chance that the government will introduce grants, grants for students who want to develop their skills and knowledge, which will later be used in professional work in the Republic of Poland? And second question: What were cereal stocks in Poland in 2021, what are they at present and how many of these cereals were exported in 2021 to Chinese and Indian markets? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I have a request to the Minister to answer these questions clearly and clearly in the second round, which Mr Andrzej Grzyb asked the author of the current information, because I have the impression that you slipped on the subject, said what he had prepared before coming to this room, and this is a very serious answer. Does the government develop, plan and plan to implement programmes that will respond to these crises that we are facing today, we, individual citizens, entrepreneurs, NGOs, local governments, due to rising prices, including energy and fuels? We expect, among others. answers to the question whether you intend to systematically unleash the market for renewable energy sources, which today faces huge barriers. The more green energy, the less energy than Putin - it is clear. And the question, from me, is the details of the courtship. Sadists believe that, in the current situation, it is a salvage for apple producers to create a Polish club variety of dessert apples. Does the Institute of Gardening or the National Centre for Research and Development work on this type of project? I'm asking for an answer on this matter. There are many questions, also from pig farmers (the bell) of pigs. Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u158	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! In the context of the discussion on the refugee crisis, but not only is there a question about housing issues. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any idea how much aid the government is giving to municipalities, to local government units for the construction and renovation of municipal housing? It's the help they've never seen. 85% the cost of construction and renovation of uninhabited dwellings (Applications), which are eligible for renovation and use for municipal purposes, shall be covered by budgetary appropriations. Do you realize that the cost of renovating residential premises that require such renovations is 50% Covers the government? The government transfers funds to local government units. Has there ever been this kind of help? Besides, there is also a social housing initiative. This program is being implemented. The PSL state asked whether there are any programs, whether they will be in the future. There's a social housing initiative. It is the State's contribution to 30% of the cost of building apartments for rental purposes, which will build self-government units. This is a local initiative. 30% of the costs are borne by the State. Are you guys... [[Where's the $100,000? Apartments?]] Mr Pierce, a little serious. [[You promised me $100,000. apartments.]] Do you realize that those local governments that created the SIM have already received PLN 3 million (the bell) to start these investments? [[And the apartments are gone.]] We have a credit support fund for those who lose liquidity. Besides, there's a law on guaranteed housing credit...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u159	Thank you very much, Member, kindly and politely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u160	Do you realize what it is to help those who do not have savings on their own contributions? That he's going to be largely depreciated? In contrast, the Living+Programme is not... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u161	The next person is Janusz Cichoń from the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much and thank you kindly. Ma'am, we agreed to do this. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's get back to business. What's going on? Firstly, we have huge losses of Polish companies that have invested in Russia and Ukraine. Plus, we have investments that need to be written down today, we have broken contracts, we have broken supply chains. Secondly, we have a huge uncertainty about the prospect of restoring markets and the supply market. Thirdly, we have a situation in the raw materials markets. We're seeing enormous growth. We've talked about this many times. Fourthly, we have a weakening gold and unstable exchange rate. Fifthly, there is an inflation spiral that is driven, by the way, by bad fiscal and monetary policies. With all these problems you left Polish entrepreneurs alone. The shield doesn't help them in any way. That's not enough. You're putting it in the oven. What you've done about the New Tax Order is a giant legal bullshit. We have new taxes and rising tax burdens. [[Yeah, if you name it, you're lying...]] You're trying to fix this right now. You've reflected and changed things. But look, for entrepreneurs, it's going to be a mess. [[Voice from the room: But what is New Deal...]] We already have two tax systems (the bell) today. You have led us to account for ourselves according to a new or old system, whichever is beneficial. Since July 1st, you've been putting in another system.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The next person is Mrs Wanda Nowick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u164	You are withdrawing a very beneficial solution, which is a relief for the middle class. Is that supposed to be a good solution? The carousel's gonna spin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u166	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! About inflation, about costing, about the huge negative impact they have on society as a whole - from young people to older people - we have talked a lot here and I will not repeat it. With the negative influence of the so-called. We also talked a lot about Polish Load, which is not Polish chaos. Let me just mention something positive. It is good that you have withdrawn from this horrible, shameful amendment that single parents were deprived of the possibility of joint accounting. You fixed that mistake. Good. It's a good thing we could have influenced that decision, so to speak. But of course that's not all. I'd like to ask you a question. It is known that the influx of refugees must affect the social situation in Poland, the economic situation of people. To tell you the truth, there's nothing you can hear about what you really want to do to counteract it. I would like to ask you about a particular aspect. Namely, it is known that economic difficulties will also cause negative emotions among Poles and Poles, which (The Bell), even if they are understood, should not take place. What is the government going to do to convince people to convince the public that we have to, so to speak, help our guests, even if it has a negative impact on our situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u168	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a regular war outside our eastern border. People run away from bombs, especially mothers and children. They're fleeing to Poland. Poles, all of us including the government, otherwise - above all the government - we try to help. [[First of all, Poles.]] There's a scream here all morning that we're not helping. Yesterday, you told me to pay everyone 500 euros. This is one narration. There's also a second narrative. It's what you create in another place, but it's also here. Yesterday, the network was abandoned by information that Poles would be here because Ukrainians would be here, and it would be worse. That's it, there's happenings. Some say that Ukrainians, children and mothers are a threat to Poland. Today we have current information, current information presented by the Polish Coalition, also immediately with a clear thesis, current information concerning the deteriorating economic situation of Poles in connection with the armed conflict in Ukraine, that Poles will have worse, because there is a conflict in Ukraine, Poles here help, so there will be no Poles, there will be no Poles because there is an armed conflict. [[This is a typical projection.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Stop arguing with the Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us all take care of what is ours, and it is very much up to us, Members, and much belongs to us. And let's not talk about everything here. Don't treat this place like stands at the rally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u169	Thank you very much, Member. The next person is Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will speak on behalf of thousands of residents of housing cooperatives in Nowy Tomyśl, in Pniewy, in Opalenicy, in Kazimierz, who are terrified of the giant increases in gas prices, because unfortunately this group of co-operatives is not supported by the issue of the URE tariff. Unfortunately, this group of co-cooperatives is actually experiencing a nightmare and is terrified because gas increases are huge, a few hundred percent. Look, in the case of a 50-meter apartment in New Tomyśl, the rent could now be increased by a few hundred zlotys. That's how heat prices go up, and you guys aren't doing anything about it. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition has prepared appropriate amendments to the Senate. Unfortunately, they were rejected by you. We as the Civic Coalition have prepared an amendment to the Act - Energy Law, so that you can finally act to ensure that, wherever heat comes from, if it goes to an individual recipient, this individual recipient is protected. What are you doing? You're not doing anything. The PiS members from the Pilski district are doing nothing. Do you know what the facts are? Do you know what the most expensive gas in Poland is? Not the gas from the Russian Jamał. The most expensive gas in Poland comes from our Wielkopolska mining sources. Entrepreneurs got, among others. also housing cooperative, 700% increase (BELL RINGING) For our big Polish gas. Do something about it. The bill is ready, it's time to start proceding, because at this point you're simply putting thousands of people at risk of bankruptcy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u171	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Tax mess of Polish Load, inflation, expensive - all this affects the quality of life of Poles and Poles. Also as a result of the increase in the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland, young people who have collected mortgage loans today face the phantom of bankruptcy. If on October 1st someone had a 25-year loan for 300,000, he paid a instalment of 1,400 PLN. Now he pays PLN 1950, PLN 540 more, almost 30%. The Left Club brought in a bill to help these borrowers. I would like to ask: Is the government working on some solution that would help these borrowers with mortgage loans due to inflation, cost and rising NBP interest rates? The very important issue I was talking about yesterday is also the abolition of common taxation for single parents. Yes, it is the fact that in the new proposal it appears, but there is also a second danger for Polish local governments. Once again, you want to rip them off, among others. by reducing taxes that are important to citizens, but at the expense of self-government. What will the government's decision (the bell) be about compensation on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To talk about the economy, you have to talk about the facts, and the facts are that we had a two-year pandemic that we went through with a dry leg. You've been protesting all the laws and aid to entrepreneurs all the time... [[We were in favour.]] ...and it's pretty good right now, but what? [[It's gonna get better.]] War and the economic situation are changing dramatically within a month. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a very important element in the economy. In this respect, such a very important element is the creation of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises on the basis of a constitution, which aims to ensure adequate institutional protection for entrepreneurs and guarantees compliance with the principles of the package. Minister! I have a question: How are these issues of cooperation between the ministry and the spokesperson and cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises presently looking and what options, strategies are prepared? Not talking about things and facts that do not exist, but specific help to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which are a pillar, as I said, of the Polish economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Together let us take care of the economy, let us not criticize, let us work together. This is the goal for Poland, for development (The Bell) and let us help those who are now in a difficult situation, in a situation of war. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u175	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! There are things we can't control, of course. Undoubtedly we have no influence on the fact that there is a war in Ukraine at the moment, but let us realize that e.g. inflation started significantly before the war. Of course, the war in Ukraine deepens this inflation. This raises a very basic question. If we are talking about the standard of life of Poles, while these salaries are growing all the time in the economy, we have to say quite clearly: there is one group that is dependent on the government. It's a budget. And now the question is, when is the budget going to get real and real raises? We're talking about raises for teachers, but raises for teachers is 4.4%. at a time when inflation is 10% And it could be up to a dozen percent. Therefore, this is only half or 1/3 of inflation. What about the employees of the other public administration departments? What about local governments, which, to put it mildly, both through inflation and through these activities, which are connected with the Polish Ład, have much less income, therefore e.g. Can't they pay well for social workers who, I'll remind you, have a bunch of work to do with the refugee crisis right now? Therefore, the basic question is: When can we expect fair and rational increases for the entire budget area? When are these people gonna start chasing people who work in different departments, in economics, and they're not gonna keep losing and paupping? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u178	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! The Minister for Agriculture, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, spoke about food safety. Putin's fans, of course, deny it, which is neither surprising nor new. Of course inflation is a fact, and that is also what the Minister said. As a result of the war in Ukraine, the structure of demand has changed in Poland and economic operators are increasingly using increased demand for certain agri-food products, introducing unjustified price increases. Therefore, I have a question about how and where to intervene and what action the Polish State is taking in this regard. I also have a question about helping refugees. In Polish schools children receive fruit, vegetables, milk and its products. And I therefore ask whether the children of Ukraine who will attend school and preschool institutions will also receive such support - which, I think, should receive, but I have doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u180	Minister Kaczmarczyk, you should start like this: Today we do not control many sectors of the market, but when it comes to rising prices, in particular food, we are also planning this, this and this. All the more reason why what did we hear? Stories about us being food-safe. Under normal circumstances, yes. But I would like to remind you that all of March will not actually drop a drop of water, and rising feed prices, cereals can cause food production to collapse. And it may not be true that pensioners will survive on soup portions, because even they may be missing. Meanwhile, Minister Telus blamed the problems on the cereal market for fake news. You're talking about panic. Truly, farmers and consumers have a right to be afraid. Because these are the PiS elites who deal with what is most sensitive and important to Poles. The prospect of price increases by a few dozen percent ahead of them. [[Mr President, it was a kiss of death. Thank you.]] Farmers and consumers have a right to be afraid. Now let's move on to what you should be in control of: providing household fuel, especially in the countryside. How are we gonna complete the carbon shortage? Will there be eco peas? Is it still gonna cost $2,000? Evil? What about the Pellet? Are you still going to export wood? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unprocessed? Are you still not going to allow processed wood products to be imported so that mass can be replenished? That's your policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u181	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Kazimierz Chom. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! There were a few sentences in this stand, which are still confrontational, still trying to put the government against the wall, still trying to get to chaos, to build this wall of hatred all the time. You're talking about the Polish Lad. The fact is that PLN 18 billion stays in the hands of Polish taxpayers, Polish citizens. The fact is, 30,000. zloty is a tax-free amount, and this is a revolution. Of course, mistakes occur with such great programs. They're eliminated, too. Why is there still heating this atmosphere? Isn't this the moment in the face of war, in the face of this difficult situation, to switch shorts, get out of the sandbox, put on long pants and start working together? This is my appeal. Let's change our attitude. Let us not burden the government with global situations that affect inflation, various kinds of processes. As far as the specific question to the Minister is concerned, please tell us what the (Bingle) planned funding for fertilisers will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u184	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Recently 2 million Ukrainians crossed the border and went to Poland. Tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Poles help them in this situation. He helps Ukrainians who have been bombed by Putin in Ukraine, and he helps those Ukrainians who have decided to come to Poland. But the government also needs to know that the economic situation of Poles who are making such an effort today is dramatic. And it's getting dramatically worse. Yeasting and less accessible raw materials, broken supply chains, smaller exports, weakening gold - all this continues to fuel galloping inflation, which may, on average, exceed 10% each year. This means significant increases in the prices of goods and services that our portfolios will touch. Stopping exports of cereals, oils and nitrogen fertilisers will also translate into an increase in food prices. Economists predict that it will be over 12% per year. The rise in inflation also means increases in interest rates and higher loan instalments, which is another blow to citizens' budgets. According to 42% surveyed companies war in Ukraine is a threat to their business activity. The spectrum collapses especially over the transport and logistics sector and construction, over the electronics and car industry. The House of Members of the Law and Justice has the audacity to claim that the situation on (the bell) of Ukraine in no way affects the economic situation of Poles. It's affecting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u186	You have to want to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u187	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u188	Today, at the time of the vote on judicial laws, you can finally lead Poland to receive funding. It'll be easier for her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is it? Oh, I see you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Food security is one of the main elements of national security alongside military security. No one could have predicted the events that are now taking place beyond our eastern border. Except Russia, maybe. Ukraine was not only Europe's food supply, it was the fifth largest exporter of wheat in the world and the largest exporter of food oils before the events on 24 March. She had a significant share in the export of other cereals. Due to the Russian invasion of the country this year's harvest will be significantly smaller than last year's record 68 million of the same cereal. And that's going to translate into prices all over the world. My question concerns the situation in Poland. I'm directing them to the Minister of Agriculture. Minister, please answer the questions again. Do we have surplus agricultural products? If so, what happens to these surpluses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The effects of inflation are felt not only by consumers but also by entrepreneurs. In a particularly difficult situation there are those who are bound by contracts, contracts under public contracts. They can't just raise the price. They must carry out contracts despite extraordinary increases in the cost of implementing them. The costs of some components of products have increased by up to a dozen percent. They're in big trouble, for example. catering companies providing their services to hospitals, crèches, kindergartens, schools and other facilities. It cost everything from fuel, energy to all food products. Service providers don't agree to valorization, and everyone knows that prices have gone up. Exactly. Or is it all? Why does the government pretend that nothing happens, that entrepreneurs are not in trouble, because of themselves not guilty? You'd like to say, "Governor, wipe your eyes, get to work." The lack of further, good solutions will cause further financial problems for entrepreneurs, will cause a wave of bankruptcies, and consequently (the bell) goes, job losses. And as it goes on, if we don't have these places, then neither you nor the government need me to raise awareness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is he around? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Yes, of course.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shouldn't the unprecedented situation faced by Russia's aggression against Ukraine at least be brought to an end for some time? Shouldn't the continuation of the Fit for 55 package be discontinued? We have such a situation that the gas market, oil market is unstable not because of our Polish fault, but because of the wrong policy of the European Union, Germany, dependence on gas from Russia, the manipulation of Russia's prices and we are wobbly due to the ill-thought-out European emissions trading system. In a situation similar to that of Poland, Turkey found itself when it adopted 2 to 3 million refugees. Let us remind you that then Turkey received EUR 6 billion of aid. So far, Poland has not received any aid. This is not enough, with the support of the opposition - I am directing this to you - sanctions are imposed on Poland, which are unfair, and the National Plan for Reconstruction is blocked. In such a situation (the bell) should we not achieve unity in the Seym to support the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u196	The state here is merely articulating demands against the government, instead of supporting the government in this unprecedented situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking a lot about the crazy cost of energy and fuel, above all. In the meantime, from this speaker, the representative of the Prime Minister, because I would like to say, Minister, that you are here on behalf of the Prime Minister, because it is for the Prime Minister that the Current Information is the one that de facto says the Green Deal, which the same Prime Minister accepted. I understand that this means that we want to continue with Putin's and Lukashenka's cabbage policy by buying record amounts of coal that cost to the ridiculous amounts that we burn in our furnaces, we heat our houses. We buy over 2 million tons of energy wood from Lukashenka to smoking in our power plants. Why? Because you've blocked the windmills because you're blocking the photovoltaics. Both can reduce energy prices. And you explain everything to the ETS, which is bullshit. On this route they earn Polish energy companies selling electricity because they impose record margins, PGNiG. They also earn Putin and Lukashenko just on their military escapades. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will now ask just one question behind the Belgian press: Is it better to have a windmill in the garden or a Russian soldier in the kitchen? Apparently, you prefer a Russian soldier in the kitchen because you want to fill him up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u199	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? Mrs Anna Paluch. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Good. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u200	Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u201	Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The refugee crisis is a number of problems and challenges that await the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs, but also the Polish labour market. The particularity of refugees who come to Poland is borne out by the fact that the vast majority are women with children. These are people who, in order to find themselves well in Poland, must have the opportunity to find and take a job. Hence my question to the government: How is the government prepared to expand the labour market in order to enable refugees from Ukraine to find a job, while at the same time addressing the issue of the nursery-school system? The second thing to remember is that the growing crisis and the great inflation and the costs hit companies that naturally created jobs. These jobs will shrink, and on the other hand we know how many people from Ukraine will look for this job. What are the government's plans to prevent wage dumping, which is a bad phenomenon, unfortunately common in times of such a crisis? What are the government's plans to prevent the development of the grey pay zone? Are you planning to strengthen the State Labour Inspection? How are you going to take care of the labour rights of both those already working from Poland and those from Ukraine who will power the labour market? And how are you prepared for conflicts that, unfortunately, can come, as we know? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u203	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u204	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'd like to ask because this is a serious challenge for the government. We can talk about war, it's all objective, I agree, but put yourselves in a position... You have pursued a policy of in moderation, unmoderate financial expenditure and have led Poland to enormous inflation as well. If you say inflation is everywhere, I'd like to tell you that for example. in the euro area, interest rates are still at zero. What does that mean? This means that there are 2.5 million mortgages in Poland. This applies to 10-12 million people. In October, interest rates in Poland were like in the euro area, practically zero. Today, after a few increases they are already 2,75% and President Glapiński himself announces that in the coming weeks, not even months, they will increase to 4.5%. This means that those who paid a instalment of PLN 1300 for such a smallest, 300 thousand loan in October are already paying PLN 1900 today. From 1300 PLN to 1900 PLN. And in a few months they will pay PLN 2,700. From 1,300 PLN to 2,700 PLN. And in the euro area - zero feet, nothing has changed. From 1,300 PLN to 2,700 PLN. What do you have to offer these people? These are loans for 30 years, for a 40-, 50-metre apartment that are (the bell) their appendage. What do you have to offer these people? What does Mr. Glapiński have to offer, who said he had money in his beard and whose politics led to it, not war? Your policy and Glapiński's. From 1,300 PLN to 2,700 PLN. What do you have to offer these people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Good. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The yeast is a phenomenon no one is questioning. The problem is, we have to get ahead of the more plagues that hang over us. The Minister convinced us that there would be no shortage of food. We don't know. Ukraine may not be producing grain at all this year. War restricts field work, and there's a reservoir of wheat and corn. Polish farmers also have difficulty accessing fertilisers, because it is not only about the fact that their price has increased, but also about the fact that there is no fertilizer. The problem is that we don't know if fertilisers will be available. I praise the government because the fertilizer subsidies have been introduced, but in the meantime the fertilizer has been used again. Today, 6100-6200 are paid for the saltpeter... [[That's not true.]] ...for fertilizers with magnesium added - more than 5,000. And one more thing. Entrepreneurs' tariffs for gas have increased nine times. What does that mean? This means that our entrepreneurs will reduce production. This mainly applies to the construction ceramics industry. If they stop production (the bell), there will be competition products from Italy, Spain, and our entrepreneurs will close their workplaces. And one more thing. Mr Telus lied. You didn't hear what I said. And we're gonna help the PiS government because we're gonna shut down the Disciplinary Chamber and bring back the Constitutional National Judicial Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u208	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are still seeing a great interest in housing for those who are not allowed to buy the apartment. Good solutions already functioning on our market thanks to solutions prepared and adopted by the Law and Justice Government in recent years indicate record results in the 14-year history of the building support programme. For example, a social housing initiative deserves a distinction. This is support for building apartments for rent with low rent, the possibility for tenants to enter the property of the rented premises, a sufficiently high participation, as well as the use of vacations in paying rents for these tenants. Local authorities receive up to 35% of their costs for this type of investment. It is also possible to receive non-refundable support of PLN 3 million. It's helping, ladies and gentlemen, as never before. The emergence of social housing initiatives has increased the availability of housing for rent for people with moderate income. It allowed a stable rent of the apartment with the possibility of buying it on its own, but without being associated with the bank with a long-term loan. This was one of the priorities of the housing policy of Law and Justice, and despite obstacles, even in the form of pandemics, it is implemented and has tangible effects. My question. Please inform us how the current situation (the bell) is shaping in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Grabarczyk was just talking about the Disciplinary Chamber. His statement showed that he had not read the Court's judgment because there was no mention of the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. But there's information that judges can't be... (Voice from the room: Doublers). The case of the judges... [[But the president has proposed the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, and we will support that.]] Mr President, we know you haven't read this, and you're talking about it. [[You don't even know what I'm talking about.]] You're talking about the Disciplinary Chamber, the Court's judgment, which you haven't read at all. Read the sentence and you'll only know what the sentence is about. [[You'd better talk about fertilizers.]] On the other hand, I would like to ask about energy security, because others have been mentioned, above all the costs of obtaining renewable energy. According to Szerder's report, the leaks in Szerder's report show that more energy is needed to produce 1 kWh of energy from the windmill than the value of the energy produced, i.e. the balance is negative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the replacement of energy e.g. Is the energy from the windmills desirable here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u212	The economic situation of Poles, social security is also discussed in the housing policy. Her parts were already mentioned here. I'd like to appeal to the numbers. In 2015, less than 150 thousand were handed over in Poland. apartments, while last year, 2021, was a record number of 234 718 apartments. This is an increase compared to 2020, despite the pandemic, by more than 6% and at the same time an increase of almost 20% in individual construction. On the other hand, very strongly these instruments, which have already been mentioned here, i.e. This money, especially for local authorities, 3 billion in 2021, transferred to the dynamics of social construction, including municipal construction in this area, makes this dynamic interest in local governments more and more, although it must be said that, at the beginning of the changes in the system, local governments unfortunately withdrew from municipal construction to a large extent. Here we have a text from the Seym Publishing House of Housing Policy in Poland, where lists of these changes in the amount of construction are very clearly presented. It is worth appealing to such data (the bell) because they are a real evaluation...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u214	...in what stages who had the achievements. Unfortunately, in previous years, poor, during this period getting better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to remind the honourable opposition only of notebooks in rural shops, purchases on credit, outgoing pensioners from pharmacies who could not comply with their prescriptions. And as for Orlen's profits, I also wanted to ask what the government's profits were, and that profit of 10 billion, which was in 2021, will certainly be used properly. [[Yes, to the palaces for Obejtek.]] 34 billion last year is the export of food. We're a tycoon in the production of poultry, eggs, apples. We're exporting food. We have very good food. [[Voice from the hall: And you revitalize the palaces of Objtva.]] Our food is being sought in Western Europe. Our food is sold in America. [[To the palaces for Obejtek.]] Minister, I wanted to ask you if this is a difficult situation, because we're almost 2,200 grand. refugees, above all women and children, we will not run out of this food. Will we be able to produce the right amount of food at this difficult time and will the export (the Bell) which is at the moment be reduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u218	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The war in Ukraine is another recent situation, with the consequences of which the Polish government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki must face. After the COVID-19 pandemic another very difficult and even dramatic situation emerged. However, the solutions introduced by Law and Justice since 2015 are effective in helping to address the problems arising from such events. They deserve attention, for example. galloping progress in the digitalisation of the business environment. The real test for digitalisation was the COVID-19 pandemic. The digitalisation made it possible to pay fees, obtain a certificate of non-payment in taxes, contributions without a personal visit to the office or e.g. a request by the company to the competent ministry via an ePUAP box or by e-mail and receiving feedback in the same form. On the other hand, in the context of COVID-19 e-prescriptions are also a huge facilitation. I would like to ask what further facilitations the government is planning for entrepreneurs on both typical financial and digital issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the difficult economic situation is due to a coincidence of different circumstances. The problem of pandemics, the impact of the Polish Deal, which was not prepared, was not consulted with the business community, with the environment of people dealing with finance, accounting, also the problem at the border, as far as Belarus is concerned - we already often talk about these things... somewhere it comes from memory, because it is in full expression, very visible, felt, affecting our thinking, our feelings Ukraine. But this has translated into a certain market situation, a situation related to the state of the economy, put certain risks to the state of the economy, and this also involves hijacked supply chains, which play an increasingly important role in the global world. Of course, the migration crisis is the result of the war in Ukraine, although not only. In case I would like to ask what actions have been taken so that those who have come here, who want to find their place to live (the Bell) and their way of life, are fully involved in social, educational life...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u222	...and in the economy to make them feel needed to serve the Polish economy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u223	Thank you very much. I would very kindly ask Mr Paul Rychlik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Okay, thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Andrzej Grzyb's applicants. Are you Mr Andrzej Grzyb? There it is. I was surprised you wouldn't be here. For the first time in my life, I think it would have happened. Five minutes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! With great interest I listened to this discussion. First of all, I would like to reserve that the request for this information addressed to the government at the request of our club, PSL Club, Coalition Poland, was not supposed to conflict Poles in any way. First of all, it was to show what the real situation was and what remedies were. Because the fact that there is a war caused by Russia against Ukraine is an objective situation and we have to deal with this situation. This situation affects, among others. Breaking supply chains, rising energy prices, has an indirect impact Also for inflation. It also affects that there will be transitional problems - the issue of the supply of steel and other elements in the Polish construction sector. It also disappeared from 100,000 employees. Ukrainian citizens who went away to defend their homeland. This repeatedly mentioned sector of TSL, i.e. transport, forwarding, logistics, this is such a crown example, here really many companies are standing on the edge, because they cannot gain further employees. So that's objective. It seems to me that here, too, this component of the increase in costs, such as the handling of mortgage loans and the impact of this on the construction of apartments, including individual investments - that is objective. Similarly, the issue of increasing production costs in agriculture, linked to a very high increase in fertiliser prices, is also an objective issue. That's right, and we have to deal with it. We are aware that this shifts to the cost of living related to energy costs, food costs, as well as to the functioning of our numerous institutions, including public institutions, because, as one of my fellow Members has said here, the cost of raising food also shifts. for collective food costs, for example in hospitals, schools, kindergartens, etc. In addition, we have never questioned the issue of aid within the COVID shield, and we have even tried to support, suggest which areas should be part of this aid. I think all these problems... Here I cannot agree with Mr Czarnecki that they are caused - those which are currently functioning - by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, certain rights of opposition related to the review of government policy, but in no case have we blocked anything, e.g. The National Reconstruction Plan. On the contrary, in this House we have been denied the right to hear the form of this recovery plan. It was sent to the European Commission without the opinion of the Polish Sejm. I've asked the government, the minister, three times, for him to be presented here. What a different situation it would be if the Sejm had expressed a positive opinion on the National Plan for Reconstruction and it was attached together with the draft sent to the European Commission. Secondly, it seems to me that the issue concerning e.g. suspension of the green order... Ladies and gentlemen, as far as agricultural policy is concerned, we need to talk about the project: from field to table, which is an authorial project of the Directorate-General and Commissioner Wojciechowski. This is, of course, an essential element in the new green order, but this is part of the green order. [[And whose is Commissioner Wojciechowski?]] I think it's hard to argue with green order. all its elements, because e.g. Energy efficiency and support for energy efficiency improvements with a fairly large proposed fund of around €70 billion... It could help, for example. the construction sector in Poland, because these are jobs, because these are investments. It would be good for us to draw attention to the various elements that we are talking about, among others. Minister, about the constitution for business. A constitution for business in the part about which the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs speaks... He said a lot, so to speak, wishes and critical opinions concerning e.g. It's a polish deal. They are materializing at the moment, among others. by changes which the government also initiates, i.e. de facto it can be said that it also recognises the arguments which have been put forward (The Bell) in this information and in this discussion that took place here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u225	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome, Minister. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll try to answer most of the questions. If there isn't enough time, I'm sure I'll answer all the questions in writing. One of the first questions was the question of Mr Robert Telus, President of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. It concerned food security and whether there is enough grain in Poland or whether we are safe food. I stress once again: it is very important that we as a whole of the House emphasize the food security of Poland. Poland produces about 34-35 million tons of cereals, and we need 80% of this volume for the domestic market. The rest is food surpluses. I will also refer to those questions that say: What if there are more refugees from Ukraine? What if there's a few million more of them? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, Mr Marshal, we can afford to feed these people. Poland is food safe. Questions are about much more matter, they are about the global situation. The questions concern the analysis of what is happening in Africa, what is happening in Egypt. Because Egypt is a large importer of cereals from Europe, Ukraine, Russia. However, I would like to point out that very important information is that, similarly last year, we have already exported 1 million tons of cereals at this moment. Now, in March, it's about 74,000. t. Please see what is the decline in exports. We now boasted about exports, because in a situation where there is no war, when we can export surpluses, it was one of the elements of our food power - exports of the best goods, exports of surpluses. However, in a difficult situation for Europe, Europe is already waking up and securing these cereal volumes, as can be seen from figures. There is no danger that there will be a situation in which Poland will be bought out. The 2020 export records, or EUR 34 billion, from 2021 - EUR 37 billion... Suddenly today it turns out that there are voices that say that Poland is now selling out, that this export was not a success. At that point when there was no war, this export was a success. Today you ask: What now? Now the numbers show that there will be no export record this year. This shows, for example, a comparison of the export of cereals year to year during the same period. Now, 74,000. t, last year at this time - 1 million t of cereals. With regard to Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's question, Mr Kasprzak spoke about the embarrassing thesis on food safety issues. However, I would like to remind you that gas, after all fertilisers, is 60% production. In production, as far as fertiliser prices are concerned, 60% are gas prices. We are well aware that in December 2021, the Sejm adopted a resolution on the suspension of emissions trading. Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts. We don't have to do politics here. Against - 122 Members of the Civic Coalition, 46 Members of the Left - also against, 21 Members of the Polish Coalition - against. If you are talking about the fact that the prices of fertilisers, energy prices are the fault of the United Right, the wrong policy, I am asking why you did not fight for the Polish state right, for Polish farmers, for Polish prosperity and for inflation today not to be at the level at which it is. I'm asking you this. That's a question for you. [[Applause]] The second thing is the question... Many of you have said: inflation is too high, too expensive. Of course, the costs are high. On the other hand, the question is whether you would prefer 20% unemployment and not securing jobs, underpayment to the Polish economy, or whether you would prefer lower inflation. The Polish government, the government of the United Right, cares for Polish citizens. We realized that inflation could be higher, but in a war situation no Pole lost his job, no one who worked and was in a crisis situation left without the help of the government. Hence the anti-inflationary shield, hence the anti-COVID and anti-crisis shields. One call on you to also address the politicians with whom you have the potential to influence the European Union to support Poland in order to unlock the funds of the KPO. In the case of agriculture, it is 4.5 billion for the processing of agri-food products. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I ask for great support, because you also have the opportunity to support Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Minister Piotr Uściński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have listened to this debate and I am pleased, as you stressed, that the debate was not about fighting Poles. I get it. The questions in this debate were actually well asked. We also try to answer these questions correctly. This debate was needed. But unfortunately from the opposition, despite your intentions, there was often extremely false information about how the Polish government works, how the Polish economy is developing. It can even be said that the slogan which appeared in many of your statements is such a slogan that Poland was collapsing and the economy was shrinking at all. And that's a complete lie, that's a lie. The Polish economy during the rule of law and justice period from 2015 to the third quarter 2021, as such data are available, comparable, increased by 24%. This is real GDP growth: 24%. It's a lot. How much? Let's compare ourselves to others. Let's see how we chase other countries. This is twice as much as at the time the US economy grew, because in the US the growth was only 12%. [[What about inflation?]] This is almost three times the size of our neighbour's economy, Germany, because instead of Polish 24% Germany was 9% at the same time. The Union average from 2015 to the end of 2021 was 6% We're looking at 24%. If we consider this now, it will probably be over 25% of the growth of the Polish economy. So we're developing at a very good pace. During this time the wages of Poles increased. And even though we once had lower inflation, now we have higher inflation, because in January inflation was over 9%. - in February, thanks to the anti-inflationary shield, because the government is working, the anti-inflationary shield, which is physically functioning, reduced our inflation by 1% - the increase in wages of Poles is all higher than inflation, because in February year-to-year the increase in nominal wages in the enterprise sector was 11.7%. That's an increase. Poles' salaries. All the time, despite the very difficult situation of COVID, now caused by the energy crisis and what is happening in the world, the increase in Polish wages is above inflation. I'm gonna answer the other questions because time is ticking. There were questions about the amount, about the tax reduction. You claim that this is a change in the course of the tax year. How can such a charge be made when these changes, announced today by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Arthur Sobonia, are beneficial for Poles, in line with the Constitution and with all laws. Polish Lad. We leave a tax-free amount of 30,000 at all times. and a threshold of 120 thousand, which is also very beneficial for Poles. The question was whether the local governments would lose it. They won't. Today the Prime Minister announced this with Minister Soboń that for local governments, but also for public benefit organizations, which also receive money from PIT, will be adequate compensation. We have prepared a number of regulations, not just a constitution for business, but many others that today help business to function. Let me give you an example, because in a few of your speeches there was a question of valorizing wages for some contractors whose costs are rising. In 2019 the Public Procurement Law was amended, Article. 439 on the basis of which it is possible to value remuneration associated with e.g. with increased material prices. And it is functioning today, that today can protect Polish companies just in a situation of increasing certain costs when they have problems with the implementation of their contracts. They may not even have problems because they may benefit from this Public Procurement Law. This, of course, protects the entrepreneurs, but also the local authorities that commission these investments. It's a condo. I've got the last seconds left. Ladies and gentlemen, even if there is now some decrease in production in the case of the construction of apartments, even if it was a major decrease, please note that more housing will be built annually than under the Platform and PSL governments. [[And how many of these cheap apartments did you build?]] I'll remind you of the Platform and PSL governments. In 2008, 165 thousand were built. apartments per year and in 2014 or 2015 - not much more than 140. In eight years of your government, the number of apartments has fallen by 20,000. [[But they're developers.]] Our governments have increased by more than 50% because of 143,000. apartments in 2014 to 234 thousand apartments in 2021 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that Poland is developing in this difficult situation, and the Polish government of Mateusz Morawiecki takes care of the interests of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Cheap apartments...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u229	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. Thank you very much to the ministers and to you for your participation. We proceed with the consideration of items 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the agenda: I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Małgorzata Paprocka, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda, the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The aim of the project is to ensure that the disciplinary responsibility of the judges and the representatives of the professions indicated in the draft in proceedings before the Supreme Court can be effectively investigated. For this purpose, the President provides and proposes the following solutions to the High House. Firstly, the project envisages the liquidation of the Supreme Court's Disciplinary Chamber, together with the relevant transitional provisions. Secondly, it is proposed to create a new Chamber in the Supreme Court - Chamber of Professional Responsibility. The cases to be dealt with by the Chamber of Professional Responsibility will, in principle, remain the same as those which today are in the scope of the Disciplinary Chamber. The President proposes that 11 judges of the Supreme Court appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland from 33 judges ruling in the Supreme Court should be included in the Chamber of Disciplinary Responsibility. The choice of these 33 judges would be sought at a meeting of the College of the Supreme Court by drawing lots. This draw would exclude the first President of the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Supreme Court, the spokesperson, the Disciplinary Advocates and, importantly, the Judges who, during the five years preceding The lottery was punished with disciplinary punishment. The way of drawing a draw in practice guarantees that, in fact, every judge during his judicial career in the Supreme Court at some stage would rule on disciplinary matters. The judges in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility would carry them out for a common term of office of five years. The Supreme Court judge, as I would also like to stress, would at the same time rule in his home chamber to which he was appointed and in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. The division of cases between chambers could not exceed 50%. In the light of the draft Act of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, there will be no broad financial and organisational autonomy available to the Disciplinary Chamber today. The project also envisages the liquidation of the President's Registry of the Supreme Court leading the Disciplinar Chamber together with the relevant transitional provisions, in particular concerning employees. In view of the conditions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland regarding the admissibility of a judge of his own motion or a transfer to rest, the draft assumes that the first President of the Supreme Court will propose a transfer to a position in another Chamber of the Supreme Court with the exception of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, where the judges will be drawn. The first President of the Supreme Court, when submitting these proposals, is to be guided, in particular, by the rational use of human resources and previous professional experience, i.e. objective criteria. If, within 7 days of the presentation of the proposal by the first President of the Supreme Court, the judge does not accept it, he will retire. In connection with the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, the draft law contains the necessary regulations relating to pending cases and final decisions. First of all, cases settled and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act are taken over and run by the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. The Chamber of Professional Responsibility at its first meeting on the matter will examine the appropriateness of the provisional measures taken. If it is found that these measures are not justified, they will be repealed. The bill also provides for compensation arrangements. In view of the practice of trading and doubts in interpretation, the draft shall also indicate the circumstances relating to the ruling which will not constitute a disciplinary offence. There are three: first of all, that a judicial decision given with the participation of a Supreme Court Judge (The Bell) is wrong to interpret and apply national law or European Union law, questions relating to the question of a preliminary ruling or to the fulfilment of the conditions of independence and impartiality of the court. Mr. Marshal, two more sentences, if you don't mind me asking. Finally, High Izbo, I would also like to discuss the new institution proposed by the presidential project, called the test of independence and impartiality. The proposed solutions are based on Article. 45 constitutions talking about the right to court. The draft makes it very clear that the circumstances surrounding the appointment of a judge cannot constitute an exclusive basis for challenging the judgment given by that judge or questioning its independence and impartiality. This is due to constitutional rules widely discussed in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal as well as in the rulings of the TSEU. As I mentioned, in order to guarantee the rights of the parties to proceedings, the draft provides for the possibility for a party to initiate a special procedure to demonstrate that the judge in a particular case - in view of the circumstances surrounding his appointment and his proceedings after his appointment, as well as the circumstances in a particular case - does not meet the requirements laid down. The proposed law also provides for rules on cases already completed. It is also proposed that the vacathio legis should be 30 days. In presenting this initiative, Mr President stressed that this is a project, which is also a tool for ending the dispute with the European Commission on judicial rules. The President, referring to the international situation which the High House does not need to be convinced of, pointed out that Poland needs at this moment peace, solidarity and concerted cooperation on both the national and international arena. Therefore, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, I ask the High House to support the proposal, to direct the project to further work and to adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you kindly. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u231	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz to present the justification for the draft law on printing 2012. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill which not only restores the rule of law in Poland, but also executes the judgments of European tribunals, is the fastest way to release EU funds, but, above all, it is going to improve, repair the relationship between the People's Republic and the European Union. We have been hearing the voices of government representatives of the importance of the European Union for the security of Poland for a few weeks. But today it is not only enough to change Europe's word by all the cases at press conferences, today is the time of action and it is extremely important that we not only talk about Poland's presence in the European Union at the moment, but also support all actions for Poland's strong place in the European Union. Poland's presence in the European Union and the European Union itself are built on the foundation of values such as the rule of law, human rights, independent courts. [[Voice from the courtroom: German courts.]] Anyone who weakens these values today also weakens the foundation of Polish presence in the European Union, to put it simply, works against the Polish state. The vote on our bill will be such a test of intent, whether we are dealing with empty declarations or with real action. To put it simply, who will raise his hand against this bill today will be in action against the values on which the European Union is built. [[Applause]] Someone may think that the rule of law is far away from him, but the reality is that the decision to restore the independence of the courts depends on whether we are in the European Union or if we are in the Russian sphere of influence. The basic assumptions of this cross-party, developed with experts and non-governmental organisations of the project are the following: firstly, the formation of the KRS in accordance with the Constitution, secondly, the introduction of a system of disciplinary liability of judges, which does not allow political persecution of judges, thirdly, the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber and the restoration to judgment of those judges who have been removed from the ruling for having carried out EU judgments, fourthly ensuring the stability of legal circulation to resolve the issue of judgments handed down by the neos judges. Let us choose well, because today we are really debating the future of our children, grandchildren, our loved ones. Until the words that were uttered in this room in May 1939 by Minister Beck are pressed down, let me quote them, adapted to the present reality. Poland cannot be pushed away from democracy and the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: A strong speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u233	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Anna Maria Żukowska to provide the reasons for the draft law on printing no 2012. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u234	We meet today to clean up after Zbigniew Ziebra's mad rally after the institutions of justice. [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Minister. A little culture.]] Minister Ziobra, who trashed the foundations of the rule of law, as a result of which the entire judiciary is wobbling at the moment. The PiS government, whose representative is Minister Ziobro, for reasons that are not understandable to us, Poles and Poles, has chosen a conflict course with the European Union. We were talking about this as a Left on the issue of the EU Reconstruction Fund. We said we would force the PiS government to restore the rule of law in Poland. We have said that EU measures linked to the rule of law will be a whip for law and justice. And here's the day. Today you, gentlemen and ladies of the Law and Justice, have a chance to withdraw from these harmful changes, and you still have a chance to turn back. In matters fundamental to the state and democracy, such as the rule of law, we, as the Left, can work together. We put aside differences and focus on what is common to pro-democratic forces in Poland. As statemen and patriots, we fight to ensure that courts and judges are independent, independent and unruly. [[Voice from the room: And from the Platform.]] We are doing this for future generations so that our children and grandchildren can say that Poland is still a democratic state of law. I do not want my daughter to read only in books about the division of power, I do not want the word Constitution to mean a book in an antique shop for her, I do not want her to live in a country that is on the political outskirts of Europe and in the Union of the third speed or even outside of it. This bill, the Iustitia Act, we are making together with the Civic Coalition just for our children, for future generations, so that they can live in a country where the judge is a judge, not a hater, an Internet troll or a politician. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The independence of courts is a condition of sine qua non democracy, independent election control and protection of individual rights. An unnecessary and destructive dispute with the European Union must be brought to an end. Poland is a member of the Union, which is the greatest guarantee of our security, which is particularly important at a time when there is a regular war at the gates of the European Union. It is therefore a matter of urgency for the state to adopt a law made by the Left and the Civic Coalition. Only our project meets all the requirements of the European Commission and implements the judgments of the TSUE. You still have a chance to correct your mistakes. Do it today, and Poland will be grateful. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Kamila had a stronger appearance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u235	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Mr Mark Ast to present the justification for the draft Print Act 2013. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? Hello, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honor of law and justice... And, excuse me, on behalf of the applicants, but the applicants are Members of Law and Justice, the project is parliamentary. So I have the honour to present a bill on the protection of the independence of judges and the special rules of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges. The aim of the project is to strengthen the independence of the judge, to protect constitutional independence of the judge, but also, as we have announced, to execute the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, the project is not moving towards a complete liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. We propose that disciplinary proceedings be transferred to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is at this point to be a disciplinary court against judges, while the Disciplinary Chamber is to be a court of second instance for the other legal professions in disciplinary proceedings. In a word, we are fulfilling these demands which flow from the European Commission and from the European Commission, and from the judicial community, so that disciplinary proceedings are not carried out by the present Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. At the same time, we are directly introducing the 137th argument for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union into this proposal and we find it in the article. 2. that a judge may not be held liable for criminal or disciplinary liability for an act involving the issuing of a specific content of a judgment, unless the judgment has been brought about by serious and completely unforgivable conduct by a judge, in particular on the grounds of intentional - or extremely serious and gross negligence - in violation of the provisions of national law and of European Union law which they are to ensure, and by arbitrary filing of judgments or refusal of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, so far it has been, no one has prosecuted judges for the content of their judgments, but if this is thus interpreted, if such charges arise in public space, let this doubt be settled once and for all. And this is what is happening in this project that we are proposing to the High House. The draft introduces procedural rules for proceedings which have already been initiated by the Disciplinar Chamber, which will continue by the Supreme Court. It also introduces rules for the selection of formations in disciplinary proceedings in the Supreme Court. Of course, these compositions will be drawn, so all the Supreme Court judges will be able to come to the courts in disciplinary proceedings against judges. We believe that the project meets all the recommendations of the EUSF, while at the same time clarifying the principle of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges in the event of a potential conflict of such responsibility with the constitutional principle of judicial independence. The advantage of this project is its simplicity. This is a brief project, while at the same time securing the full status of Supreme Court judges who are ruling today in this court. Of course, Law and Justice are ready for proposals for this project. We are ready to accept all good (Bingle) solutions that will be consistent with the Polish state rhyme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. I would very much like to ask Mr Krzysztof Smishek to present the justification for the draft law on printing 2049. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present a bill amending certain laws in order to abolish the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. For several years now, Law and Justice have waged a stupid and unnecessary war with the European Union. A war that costs us space and prestige in the EU community. From a country that was a champion of European integration, where the membership of the European Union gave Poles a sense of pride and enthusiasm, we became not only a nuisance but also a brake. The PiS government has brought disaster upon us, from which only extreme anti-European, nationalist forces led by Le Pen, Salvini or Orbán can enjoy. As you can hear, laughter comes from the right side as well. It's unfortunate, it's falling out of the main pro-European trend. [[Voice from the room: At what cost? At what cost?]] This misfortune has been caused by many factors, but the main factor is the systematic violation of one of the most important values which Poland, when joining the Union, committed to uphold, namely: the rule of law, the rule of law and respect for the independence of the courts. As part of its imaginary populist fight against windmills, the majority of PiS-owska decided to attack one of the most sacred principles of a democratic state, which is the independence of the judges and the independent issuing of judgments. Since the beginning of PiS governments, the fight against judicial autonomy has been and is the main element of the political agenda. PiS hates everything independent and independent, not giving in to political will from the streets. Nowogrodzka. First of all, the disgraceful fight against judges started with a disgusting billboard campaign, which burned millions of zlotys out of public funds to convince Polish society that Polish judges are thieves, embezzlers, lions and criminals. After this disgusting campaign it was time to change the law: the muzzle bill, the act eliminating the KRS, the attack on TK. This is your list of disgraces. All in order to close the mouth of Polish judges to push political bodies with nominates. Do you know what the ideal of a judge according to the PiS is? He is a cameraman, often incompetent and without accomplishments, without a spine, which only does one thing: he reads the expectations of power instantly and so he says. What has PiS focused on in recent years in the area of justice? On the reforms, you will ask. None of these cases. Approximately the courts of the citizens? Simplifying procedures? To reduce the cost of court? Have you heard of any reform of the courts under the PiS rule? Not at all. The courts have been treated like a mere rude political loot. Like the PiS-owned companies of the State Treasury, which must be filled with their own. What about the judges who remain faithful to the Constitution? [[Mother, what nonsense.]] Faithful to your vows? Faithful letters of law and their independence? Intimidate, humiliate, humiliate, and break. This is the PiS plan for the reform of the Justice Department and that is why the Disciplinar Chamber - the armed arm of the Party in the Supreme Court was established. Officers who were generous trinkets dressed up in judge's robes. The only thing that's keeping them busy is checking whether the Polish judges stick to the letters of the Constitution or the letters of the statute of the party Law and Justice. The Disciplinary Chamber is one of the sources of gigantic problems that brought PiS to Poles, so it has to disappear. That is why the Left tabled a bill to liquidate the House a year and a half ago, providing that European courts would question the existence and legality of this bizarre creation with all their power. We weren't wrong, unfortunately. The next tribunals - the Strasbourg and Luxembourg - say simply: something that wants to be called a court, the court is not, and although it would very much like it - from calling itself a court will not happen. And one more thing. Today we can quickly end this embarrassing and harmful dispute between Poland and the EU. All cards in this stupid game between Poland and the EU hold Law and Justice. You can unlock the giant money from the Reconstruction Fund, but it only depends on the ruling coalition's decision. Do not blame the opposition or the bad Union or the bad European tribunals. Why is it that Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and even rich Luxembourgers are already using KPO money, and Poles are still waiting for the means that you are blocking your stupid war? It was you who dragged Poland and Poles into this mess and it is your duty to get us out of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Disciplinary Chamber must disappear, but the political KRS must also disappear, which nominates political officers to all courts throughout Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u239	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Sak to state his reasons. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u240	Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u241	Excuse me, sir. I have such a polite request for Mrs Bartus. Would it be nice if, as you say, I stood back to you? [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u242	May I take off?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u243	Mr President, I kindly inform you that we are rebooting you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u244	Thank you. It would be possible to present and right over the project of Members of Solidarna Polski, which is the most comprehensive, not a point change of law, Supreme Court. But it is crucial to get ahead of these changes and to answer the question whether Poland is a sovereign country and whether it has the right to shape its justice system and judicial system. There are 27 justice systems in the EU. Everyone has their own characteristics, is different and has their own solutions, but it turns out that only the Polish system is salt in the eyes of the Eurocrats from Brussels... [[Voice from the room: Not only that.]] There is no, ladies and gentlemen, the only model of justice for a simple, very prosaic reason. Member States have not delegated this competence to the EU, and the Union's or the TSUE's action in this area is pure usurpation. It is vain to find such competences in the Treaties for EU bodies, especially in the case-law of the TSEU, which is not the source of the law. Despite this, the TSUE is interfering with our legal system through these expropriations and expansions. The TSUE is a thief of our competences and a tool unfortunately to fight against Poland. Through judgment he tries to train us that if we are humble, obedient, we will receive a reward in the form of means. [[That's embarrassing.]] Unfortunately, the rulings of the TSUE instigate Polish judges to constitutional disobedience, to deny the constitution. [[You don't know what you're talking about.]] Polish judges are to be ministers of laws, not masters of the life and death of Polish laws. [[Voice from the hall: Not politicians.]] Mr President, let your tongue be tamed and, above all, your thoughts. [[Every judge is a servant of the bill.]] Therefore, we should not be subjected to such procedures and manipulations. We entered the European Union without bringing the sacrificial altar of the judiciary and, above all, sovereignty. The lack of the rule of law is one big hoax and humbug, a publicity scam. Besides, former U.S. Ambassador, Mrs Mosbacher simply described this narrative as a Russian disinformation. [[Since when do you listen to foreign governments?]] Unfortunately, it is so sad that the European Union states have the most to say in this regard, which unfortunately have dirty hands, because they are collaborating economically and energy with the Russian aggressor, breaking the embargo. These people are teaching us about the rule of law. The lack of the rule of law in Poland is as empty as the fact that the northern pipelines are a purely business project, that in Ukraine there is a denasification and special action. That's bullshit. Unfortunately, the opposition inspires and suflutes this intellectual mush and competes with the Grimm and Krasicki brothers in storytelling. [[A little serious.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are begging for the intervention of the European Union to bring us down to take our resources. I understand that you may be against the government, but do not be against Poland. [[Applause]] [[What kind of language is that, man? Look where the enemy is and what's going on.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will never be an agreement on Brusselsism, the supremacy of Community law and European law over Polish law. According to the case law of the Constitutional Court, which we as Polish parliamentarians are bound by, because according to the article. The 190th Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitutional Tribunal is final, they have universal force... [[And no understudy.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No doubles.]] Read the March decisions of June 2020 and, above all, the key decision of October 2021. You will be perfectly able to read if you want to interpret the constitution and the rules properly, that entering our justice system is not the competence of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not Poland, but Brussels, when assisted, unfortunately, that the Court of Justice of the European Union sabotages and destroys the European Union through these unacceptable interferences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As Polish Members, we have the right to reform our justice system. [[Voice from the room: Why aren't you trying?]] [[This isn't your system.]] Our project, our legislative purpose, is in line with these needs and will continue to renew and change this area. Please support the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u245	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Mark Ast of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of expressing my position on presidential and parliamentary projects, which are the subject of today's debate in Parliament. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, sir, also in relation to the Solidarity project of Poland. All projects have a single objective, namely the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber or a certain adjustment, in terms of the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber, but in order to meet the expectations that the European Commission sets before us, which are the result of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Here we are all in agreement, which is also good in terms of further legislative work on the proposals presented by the various groups of applicants and by the President. Of course, the road to the goal that has been defined in these projects can be completely different and sometimes very twisted. The presidential project is the first project that entered the marshal's staff. It's also very clear. It proposes the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. In return, a Chamber of Professional Responsibility in the Supreme Court is to be established, which will be a disciplinary court for judges. The draft also provides for a procedure to be followed in front of this Chamber and for the selection of judges who will be part of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. In the view of the Law and Justice Club, this project should be a leading project in view of both the priority of its submission and the way in which it is achieved. Of course, such a decision will be taken in the course of legislative work in the Committee on Justice, after discussion. We will see how the members of the justice committee will implement this request. I have already told you about the project that has been submitted by Members of Law and Justice, and I will not discuss it. We will expect one point, which has been transposed from the justification of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the 137 thesis, which states that judges are not responsible for the content of their judgments, is in the final form of the law precisely to resolve the doubts that all confabulations, all false allegations that judges in Poland are being prosecuted for the content of their judgments, will be resolved. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Does Tuleja return...?]] They were disbanded so that no one in Poland would submit such false reports to the European institutions. The largest project is, of course, a project of Solidarna Polska. The project, which assumes a virtually complete change in the functioning of the Supreme Court, is about changing its system. A project that is part of a wider whole, because that's the way to say it. The Minister of Justice, announcing the next stage of judicial reform, saw this project in the context of broader systemic changes also in the general court. On the other hand, in the High House, there is not yet a general court-change project - this project, which is to introduce a flattening of the structure, a levelling of the status of judges. In this context, the Supreme Court project was also compatible with this announced project on universal courts, among others. and as regards the proceedings, and the transfer of the Supreme Court Judges to the Cassation Courts. So it seems that this project should be considered in the longer term, that it will be difficult to consider it together with the presidential project. But we will also decide how to proceed on this project at a later stage of legislative work. However, as I said, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice believes that this comprehensive proposal for changes to the Supreme Court deserves attention. However, in no way can we agree with the submission of the Civic Coalition, the Left, with a project which contains a number of solutions that are directly contrary to the Polish constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Polish State after 1989 respected the case law of the courts of the Polish People's Republic. It did not propose that the judgments of those courts, often acting on behalf of the then communist communist communist regime, be annulled by law. The State in your draft proposal proposes the annulment of judgments handed down by law involving judges appointed by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is a lie.]] At the same time, you legally wish to deny the status of judges who, on the basis of the President's exclusive prerogatives, have been appointed to judges in recent years or have obtained them as a result of a procedure before the National Judicial Council and have been promoted to higher judicial positions by the appointment of the President. There is no consent, there can be no consent to this kind of solution. To the rest of the world, you're trying to restore your former state. The state that existed before the reform of the justice system. Of course, like I said, there's no consent. I'm going to file a motion for rejection on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. As far as the other cases are concerned, we still have the Left project. I think that the project is moving towards the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, but the solutions proposed there are no longer as controversial as those contained in the joint project of the Civic Coalition and the Left, so in this case we will not bring, at least the club will not ask, to reject this project at first reading. We are, of course, looking for cooperation, for consensus in the course of all the projects that will be addressed to the committee. As I said, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice sees the legitimacy, the leading role of the presidential project. We hope that the changes that have been proposed will be quickly converted into a report and the final form that will be in second reading and in the third quickly adopted, so that - as you all stress - on the one hand, we will resolve the unnecessary conflict with the European Commission and, on the other hand, mobilise the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u247	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate concerns five projects on the Supreme Court. It is quite rare that there are five projects that regulate the same matter at the same time. Three of these projects come from the power camp and you can even come to the conclusion that in March 2022, when war is rampant at the gates of our homeland, when we have huge inflation, when Poles eat expensive at shops, at petrol stations, when they are drowning in tax chaos, the most important problem for you is the functioning of the Supreme Court. But this is a false concern. [[That's a good question.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that after 7 years of power, you suddenly remembered something like the cassation, I am able to believe, because you are not the hardest crew, but that suddenly you realized that the Disciplinary Chamber is evil, after all, for a kilometer stinks of lack of credibility, after all this is a joke. [[Oh, how ugly, how ugly...]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, representatives of the ruling camp, representatives of Solidarna Polska are trying to convince Poles that defending the Supreme Court, defending sovereignty, defending the Polish government. It's a lie. You are only defending your impunity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Poles today do not need false guardians of sovereignty. Poles today need honesty and respect for their freedoms, from which you have been stealing from them for 7 years, because you steal from Poles from the justice system, from their independence, independence, stealing from Poles from their own freedoms. That can't be allowed. [[Genius.]] Let us recall why there is even this debate today, where it came from, why the camp of power directed three projects about the Supreme Court to the marshal's staff. Because the government, with the hands of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra with the support of the President, created a sick system. [[Applause]] He created a system in which power is not responsible for its crimes and its sins. You've created a system where you have tools for handing out judges. You have created a system that provides tools for punishing insubordinate judges, prosecutors and lawyers. This is also what this debate is about today. This is how the sick system, Mr President, has alienated Poland and Poles from European values. He dismissed Poland and Poles from respect for the letter of law. He distanced Poland and Poles from respect for the citizen, for freedom. Thus, which is, of course, the second day of today's debate, drove Poland and Poles away from EU funds, and these EU funds are today needed by Poles like oxygen, and you are playing ordinary political games. The solution to this problem will not be found in the PiS project, either in the Solidarna Polska project or in the President's project, because the solution to the problem is not to change the sign of one chamber or the other, the solution to the problem is not to call the Chamber of Disciplinary Chamber of Professional Responsibility. The problem is in the National Judicial Council, the fact that the politicians of the governing party own the National Judicial Council, and its members actually on call, on the phone. Until this situation changes, until the governing camp turns the National Judicial Council into the hands of its citizens, these problems will remain unsolved. [[Applause]] And the solution to this problem is in the Civic Platform project, which explicitly assumes giving citizens elections to the National Judicial Council, full democratisation of this process. Therefore, until you accept this and realise where the main problem lies, all three projects can be assessed only negatively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u249	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President, when presenting the bill, wanted to make a good impression and show that he had listened to the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Nothing more wrong. Although the President proposes the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, the judges in the Disciplinary Chamber will either retire or be transferred to another Supreme Court Chamber. This means that the project does not take into account the case-law of the EU tribunals which have undermined the status of judges recommended by the unconstitutional National Courts Council. [[Applause]] As if that were not enough, the judges of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, who are to replace the Disciplinary Chamber, will choose - yes, yes, you are not mistaken - the President, or politician, who has no competence to create a Chamber of Supreme Courts. Mr. President! Picture of the sign with the inscription: The Disciplinary Chamber does not carry any positive changes in this project. It is simply the blindness of the European Commission, which is to decide on the further fate of billions of euros for Poland blocked because of the lack of the rule of law. Other solutions contained in this project also put it in opposition to the Polish constitution, EU treaties and judgments of EU tribunals and Polish courts, to the fundamental principles of independent courts and independence of judges. The president proposes a test in the project for the impartiality and independence of all judges. However, it should be borne in mind that such a test is to be introduced for all judges, including those elected legally. In this way, he wants to lead to the legalization of the neo-Judges, saying that it is really possible to undermine the status of every judge, also elected in accordance with the Constitution. It is also a way of excluding independent judges from important for the power of the trials. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the opening of the way to manipulate the formations. [[Applause]] A solution is being introduced which aims precisely to ensure that pro-European interpretations on the flaws of the appointment of neosons constitute a disciplinary delict. The judges will no longer be able to challenge judgments handed down by the neo-KRS only because they have been appointed by the neo-KRS. The judge will be able to ask the question for a preliminary ruling, but he will not be allowed to execute the judgment of the TSUE in this respect. This will lead to a blocking of the enforcement of judgments of the tribunals and the examination of the status of the neosjudges. The Disciplinary Delict is also added in the form of refusal to sit with the Necessaries, i.e. directly for the execution of the decisions of the TSUE. It is a sack with a number of further possibilities to prosecute independent judges, especially judges carrying out ECHR and TEU judgments. This means that the project does not remove the provisions of the muzzle law. The project does not solve the most important issue of the rule of law problem in Poland and concerning the judiciary, because it does not refer to the faultyly appointed National Council of Courts. [[Applause]] The termination of the term of office of the members of the legal KRS was a breach of the article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. Members of the legal KRS have been deprived of the right to court and the possibility to challenge the early termination of their term of office. It's like firing an employee from work and then taking away his right to appeal to the court. Without bringing about a situation in which only judges elected in accordance with the Constitution will rule in the Supreme Court, all draft amendments will only mask illegal activities. If the President had serious thoughts about correcting errors - and I would remind you that these projects concerning the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court were an initiative of the President - his initiative today would have started with changes to the Act on the National Judicial Council. Thus, given that none of the so-called projects. The United Right does not meet the requirements for recovery, we apply for rejection of draft laws from prints 2011, 2013 and 2050. Unfortunately, when these projects are read, it still feels that the rulers still care more about politics than real work on changing the rule of law provisions. No one defends us from adopting rules on the functioning of justice, but by adopting these rules, we must remember that the Constitution lays down the fundamental principles of this justice system: judicial independence (The Ring) and the independence of the courts, and you do not respect this state at all. Also in these projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Paweł Juszczyszyn, Olsztyn District Court - suspended on 4 February 2020 [[Applause]] The first Polish judge suspended by the illegal Disciplinar Chamber. Reason: execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of November 2019 after the Court first assessed the unlawfulness of the Chamber and the politicisation of the neo-KRS. Igor Tuleja, District Court in Warsaw - suspended in November 2020 [[Good.]] Reason: The National Public Prosecutor's Office intended to raise an absurd charge for allowing journalists to declare a judgment critical of the Law and Justice. Maciej Ferek, District Court in Krakow - suspended on 16 November 2021. Reason: undermining the status of neosjudges, enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union... [[Bravo!]] ... the European Court of Human Rights. Previously suspended by the President of the Court, the Nominate of Ziebra and a member of the neo-KRS. Piotr Gąciarek, District Court in Warsaw - suspended 24 November 2021 [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Reason: refusal to adjudicate with a neosjudge, application of Union law, reference to judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court. Previously suspended by the President of the Court, the nominee of the Ziobra Ministry. Maciej Rutkiewicz, Elbląg District Court - suspended on 15 December 2021. Reason: reference to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 15 July 2021 in which it was found that the Disciplinary Chamber was not a court. Previously suspended by the president of the court, the appointment of the Ziobra department. Krzysztof Chmielewski, District Court in Warsaw - suspended 5 January 2022. Reason: execution of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights, questioning the status of neosędzi, the President of one of the capital courts. [[Hang it up and throw it away!]] Unfortunately, it's not over. Suspension for enforcement of EU law continues to threaten the next judges. [[Because we're in Poland.]] This is in practice the functioning of an illegal Disciplinary Chamber in a country which, under the existing constitution, is a democratic state of law. [[Applause]] A state whose elements should form a well-functioning organism, and today, after almost seven years of right-wing power, due to the policy of an ununited government of the right hand, falls into deep, multi-governmental failure. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Russian disinformation.]] For this failure, for the inability of the Polish government, we pay a high price as a country. Not just the image price, the political price, but the most tangible financial price. We pay everyone, citizens and citizens, 1 million euros a day. [[This is an outrage!]] This today is more than 140 million euros of penalties. And the lack of acceptance of the National Reconstruction Plan is less for Poland by another 24 billion euros of grants and 12 billion loans. This is the price we pay for an illegal, non-constitutional special court which, within the meaning of EU law or Polish law, cannot be regarded as a court. [[Applause]] This is the price we pay for the crisis of the rule of law in Poland. In the midst of the pandemic crisis, in the face of the refugee crisis, in the shadow of the war beyond our eastern border, it is probably time to end the right-wing war with the European Union. Today, Poland's strong position in the European Union is a Polish state right, and funds from the European Reconstruction Fund are needed more than ever. Will the Members and Members from the right side of the Chamber decide to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber? Don't you think the liquidation of an illegal chamber is worth it? Isn't the money from the European Union worth the service? We have five projects ahead of us today. Two of these projects can end at least one of the crises that we are facing today - we can end the crisis of the rule of law. The Left project and the joint project of the Left and the Civic Coalition restore the state before the deformity of the Supreme Court. Three right-wing projects, although seemingly establishing the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, leave illegally elected judges in the Supreme Court and, at best, maintain, and in this worse case, as in the case of the parliamentary project of non-Solidara Poland, deepen contrary to the constitution and EU law the deformities of justice. That's why the only right place for this project is a basket. The parliamentary draft Law and Justice is, in turn, an example of how to write laws unfortunately should not be. It rubs itself with ridiculousness in its wording at school level. This is not a legislative act. His destiny (Applause) is, unfortunately, a basket. The presidential project, although it may be reasonable, is flawed, inadequate and apparent in the solutions. Instead of solving problems, it creates sources of further problems. Therefore, for each of these three projects, the Left applies for rejection at first reading. [[Applause]] Are today's first readings going to end the conflict, end the crisis, or just fake the movement? We'll see. We're saying tonight: I'm checking. I hope that while we're rehearsing, we can do what we have to do, and we can put an end to this illegal chamber. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Don't scare, don't scare.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask you, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u254	The project presented by the Civic Coalition and the Left jointly, by the Association of Judges Iustitia is a model project of cooperation between opposition parties and social parties. From this point on, I wanted to thank the social side especially for participating in this project, because it probably would not have been in this room without this project (Applause). So that I particularly thank NGOs for being a catalyst for our agreement and for being able to submit this project. [[Who's funding them?]] This project... I'd be very interested to know who's financing you outside of the Sejm, but that's by the way. [[Applause]] [[And you?]] If one wonders what the Polish policy will look like after the rule of law and justice, whether the opposition will be able to deal with the most important issues that are fundamental to the country, it has a clear answer today. Yes - the democratic opposition in matters of importance, in matters of democracy, the rule of law (Applause), the constitution is able to agree. We will do it, just as we have done at the moment, and I hope that in the future government in which there is no law and justice, we will be together law and justice to account for all the disgusting things you do, everything you have done with the Polish justice system that you have brought to an unacceptable level in democratic countries. Today Poland would no longer meet the requirements which it places on countries aspiring to be in the European Union. I don't know if you're aware of that. It's scary. If Poland had applied for this accession today, it would not have been accepted. Fortunately, Poland became a member of the European Union under the regime of the Left, so that at least so much (Applause) we have in terms of securing the situation. Thanks to these joint efforts today, we are working on a bill in the Sejm that has a chance to repair what has destroyed the rule of law and justice over the years. The most important issue in this law is the elimination of an illegal Disciplinary Chamber, but that is not enough. It is not enough here to solve the presidential project, which merely replaces it in fact, is powdering this situation. It removes the Disciplinary Chamber, appoints a new Chamber, the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, but the choice of judges in this Chamber will continue to be politicized, because the fact that a draw will first take place will no longer result in a lack of influence by the President, because the President at the end chooses from these raisins simply the coolest ones, those who will judge according to the programming line, with the political line of Law and Justice. The main issues here are to restore the rule of law, which is intended to unlock funds from the European Fund for Reconstruction. We all know how much these measures are needed in Poland, especially now that the war broke out in Europe. The opposition puts a ready solution on the table, which exhausts all the issues that will solve this matter once and for all, unless, of course, crazy ideas come back in their heads and Zbigniew Ziobra, and other representatives of the Government of Law and Justice. Just adopt the bill proposed by the Civic Coalition and the Left, the Iustitia project, so that this EU money will power the Polish economy. We're all waiting for them. [[Scandal.]] The scandal that we're asking for European money? Mr. Speaker! Mr. Speaker! I voted for that money. I represent a pro-state, patriotic formation. [[You're selling Poland. Scandal.]] ...and that is why we are able to do anything for Poland, even exposing ourselves to a hat, as you may remember. We are able to do this because we are responsible politicians and politicians. And we have every right to demand that money because we voted in favour of it. [[Applause]] It was thanks to the Left that the provisions on European reconstruction funds for Poland were adopted and that is why we have the greatest right today to demand that they be unlocked. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland's money is due, but only when the rule of law is restored. We've been talking about this since the beginning. [[Scandal! Shame!]] And accept this bill, because then the money will go to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u255	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! We've been hearing a lot lately from the government about an anti-putin shield. [[She's like this. It's a very good shield.]] I think that today, during this debate, it is worth noting, High Izbo, that such a first fundamental pillar of the anti-putin shield for Poland should be the restoration of government institutions, the restoration of the legal functioning of the justice system. [[Applause]] [[Get rid of Pawlak.]] Mr Marshal, I would like to point out that something Mr Kowalski is hyperactive at the moment. [[He's allergic to stupidity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u257	Mr President, I have a very kind request. As you can see, these five laws concern a very important issue in two dimensions: firstly, the rule of law, secondly, European measures. [[But Pawlak could be kicked out.]] [[You guys can throw out the Herb.]] As you can see, I'm not interrupting speeches, I'm giving every page an opportunity to speak and I'm asking you to be serious. Screaming about who is what, doesn't help us at all: neither about the rule of law nor about measures. Of course, I've stalled your time, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u258	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to thank you very much for your intervention. Why do we think that the fundamental pillar of the Anti-Putin shield is the law-abiding institutions of justice? Because legal chaos in Poland, legal uncertainty of citizens is the implementation of Putin's vision in Poland. The exclusion of Poland from the great European family of democratic states respecting the rule of law is the realization of Vladimir Putin's dream. The institutional weakness of Poland is also the implementation of Putin's vision in Poland. [[Applause]] I think, High Izbo, that today we are coming to a point where a kind of conscience check should be done in terms of actions taken within the broader justice system over the last 7 years. I am looking here at my fellow Members from Law and Justice. Well, seven years ago, you gave the justice system fully into the hands of one man. Question: "What do we see today?" What is happening to the Polish justice system today? I think you're watching reality, too. There are more problems today, more misfortunes in this justice system than there was seven years ago. You promised Poles that it would be fairer and more accessible that it would be easier, cheaper to pursue your justice. We ask: Is it easier for anyone in Poland to pursue justice today? [[They cheated.]] It's not. Can anyone in the darkest dreams 7 years ago see that by the Polish justice system, its institutions, we will be ridiculed and ridiculed throughout Europe, that by your actions within the justice system we will be held back by European funds for the needy Poland today, how long and wide is it? Due to the recent destruction of the justice system, with the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court headed by the Supreme Court, measures for 16 regions have also been suspended. [[Kowalski doesn't understand anyway.]] I will say: there are few areas in which changes could really be appreciated for the benefit of these 7 years. Today, however, justice is like a ruined area. We would appeal to the Law and Justice to learn from this work of your coalitioner. Poles today reject the Soviet model of the structure and functioning of the justice system. They don't want to go back to what's very bad about past years. I think you're aware of that. [[Applause]] Today there is a chance, on the basis of projects: on the one hand, the President's project, on the other hand, the project which was, as previously indicated, submitted by the social side, but as a parliamentary project, to take the first step on the long road to the recovery of justice in Poland. We as the Coalition of Poland and the Polish People's Party kindly accepted this initiative of the President, we continue to accept it. However, we would like to make it clear that for this project, the intended objective can be achieved under a number of basic conditions. First of all, he can't finish the justice process, because these repairs require not only the Supreme Court, but at least a few other institutions. Secondly, the President's proposal requires a number of important changes and we will post these changes on the basis of the amendments of the Polish Coalition. What should be the scope of these changes? Firstly, those judges who, through the operation of the illegal Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, have been deprived of jurisdiction should be returned to work immediately. Secondly, those who sit in the Disciplinary Chamber must return to the places where they sat before the establishment of this illegal body. This is extremely important, otherwise we will deepen chaos and legal uncertainty in a very important constitutional institution, which is the Supreme Court. Finally, thirdly, this new committee, which will play a specific role as a disciplinary judge, must be appointed from among those who have at least 7 years of experience in the Supreme Court. Then criticizing and undermining the actions of these people will be deprived of any kind of basis. This is needed to achieve, to make this, as I said, the first step. But we also make it clear that this first step is not all that the judiciary, the justice system in our home is really going to serve the citizens. In order not to question its legal character, further steps are needed. In a situation where - here I am addressing the Minister - it will only be one step, unfortunately, those who say in this Chamber will be right: we do not trust the President with his intentions. We hope that these intentions of the President regarding the project are sincere and authentic. And we expect that there will be further steps to heal those areas that have unfortunately been corrupted in the last 7 years. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland declares its readiness to work on the President's project, as well as the parliamentary project prepared by the social side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u259	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate. I will therefore refer to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, according to which ministers, the members of the Council of Ministers have the right to request, to speak when required. I will now ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Michał Wójcik to speak and I will also ask the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra to speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have used my rule of law to take the floor, 2-3 minutes after Mr Pasyk's speech. Well, Mr Bury is a symbol of your power and reform in the judiciary. [[Voice from the room: Bury.]] Jan Bury, ladies and gentlemen. [[And your Piebiak.]] He's a man with a problem with corruption, Jan Bury. Tell the public what he's done, what he's up to... [[Fuck's gonna be better.]] He was in the KRS, ladies and gentlemen. That's the face of PSL. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about Piebiak?]] But I will also say one thing in connection with the statements of the opposition. What do you really want? You want to go back to the way things were, and then there's no going back, and there won't be. [[Voice from the room: That's not true!]] [[Says who?]] [[That's not true, don't lie.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is this project that prepares this environment for its environment? After all, this is what Iustitia has prepared, the judge's environment is to reform itself. [[Voice from the room: Piebiak.]] This is a three-part opposition. That's just how you understand the three divisions. [[How do you understand?]] If you're talking about pathology, mention the judge on the phone. Do you remember? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] A Member from the Platform bench, from the Civic Coalition, screams. It was in your day that there was a judge on the phone. Journalists did a provocation, and the judge was ready to go to KPRM, where they're sitting today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u261	Ladies and gentlemen... Excuse me, Minister. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u262	But it's true, Mr. Marshal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's with the ad personam statements? This is the minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, you're really not helping with the proceedings. There will be questions, you will have the right to speak. Look, I know things can be a little annoying, but when the time comes, you'll be answering. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Now, listen to me... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Let's get to the point, sir. The term of office was a term that was forged in your time by the judicial community. [[Whose group was it? Faggot. You're the caste.]] What were you doing with the justice system? [[Voice from the room: Piebiak.]] It's really destructive. You're talking about neo-KRS, you're talking about... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u265	Excuse me. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u266	But I can't, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u267	Gentlemen, are you really... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, but I have a favor to ask you... [[Mr. Marshal, if the Minister talks to the point, we'll listen to it. Let him talk to the point, just say it.]] Okay, but can you listen? [[Voice from the room: You can't listen to this.]] [[Voice from the hall: This cannot be listened to, as the Minister says.]] But, gentlemen, you'll have the floor, you'll say it all, right? Do you think if you scream, it'll be... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Can you listen to me? [[Voice from the room: Let him talk about the projects.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please call the Minister to the matter.]] Gentlemen, can I ask you to be reasonable? Can you show us the distance to something? Can you do that? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, the effect will be to announce a break and you'll have nowhere to yell. What's the point? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u268	Thank you very much, Marshal. I also thank you for your patience and such elegant conduct of the sitting. I know that this is a painful truth for you. It was you who forged the terms: usurpers, neo-KRS, neotribunal. You guys were really cutting the branch that we're all sitting on, all of us, the whole third power. [[We pay 1 million euros for this.]] A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, you lost. The TSUE has shown you where you belong. This turned out to be before the Court of Justice of the European Union - where you lost. And your tweets say, "Historical sentence will be." He was historical, showed where you belong. Yeah, it was a historical sentence. [[Applause]] You're the ones who wanted to undermine the status of judges. Today you're talking about the KRS, but the Civic Platform was willing to forget about her project she once had. Refresh your memory. The box will remind you of what it was about the KRS project, how you wanted to reform the KRS in your time when you were in charge. I just want to ask you one thing. I would like to say that in the last seven years, contrary to what Mr Paszyk has said, many very important reforms have been carried out, reforms in matters relating to child protection, issues relating to non-alimentation crime, usury, as well as reform of the Prison Service, reform of the bailiff environment, many, sir, also in matters relating to VAT, from which social programmes are paid. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro was behind this. You don't want to accept this truth. [[Applause]] It's insolent that you're attacking the Minister of Justice right now. [[3 million outstanding cases.]] Do you know why Zbigniew Ziobro is the Minister of Justice? So that someone who is suspected of being raped in Ukraine will be in custody. And that's what happened today. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk asked for the floor in a corrective manner. We will then return to the discussion and Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak from the Confederation. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u270	Thank you very much, Marshal. With all due respect, Minister, your speech clearly shows that after 7 years of responsibility, 100 percent responsibility, your political environment for justice, you have nothing to say to the Poles today. [[Applause]] First of all, the example of the person who called you here is misplaced - this person has nothing to do with public life for 7 years - and secondly, you have all the instruments to make this man a long time behind bars, since he is such a thug as you commanded here. I didn't know he was behind bars. I don't know if there's anything important going on with him. If it's as good as you're in charge, why do Poles expect more and more court dates today? Why are fees increasing today for those very often poor Poles who want to pursue their justice? Why were nine amendments to the Law on the Supreme Court (The Bell) needed, and it actually did not lead to anything? Why did you refrain from appealing the first president of the Supreme Court if you think you're so effective? Really, Minister, sometimes it's time to admit mistakes and failures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u271	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members and Messengers! Ladies and gentlemen! If Poles are watching this debate, they have the right to have a sense of shame for what this discussion looks like, for how serious a matter is being turned into such money. What are we discussing here? We're discussing who, what mode and how to judge judges who commit some kind of criminal offence. Does anyone in this courtroom think that only perfect, sinless people, made of other clay than ordinary people, ordinary Poles go to judge? I don't think so. Therefore, I think we all agree that some kind of disciplinary justice is simply needed. The question is: How do you organize it well? We have here, on the one hand, a minister who invented such a system, that the Ministry will send trusted people who will do the purge, and on the other hand, we have the Left or the Civic Coalition, which believes that it is best for the judges to judge themselves, and then the justice system will purify itself. Somehow not particularly in the last 30 years we've seen it. The Confederacy has a proposal that can reconcile everyone. I know it's hard to believe, but we've really prepared this proposal. If there is a chance that one of these five projects will be adopted, we hope that it will be added as an amendment. These are three pages, a special chapter on the organisation of disciplinary justice. Our proposal is that neither the judges of the PiS nor the judges of the Iustitia judge other judges, but to entrust this to jury jury members, and these jury can decide only (Applause) by a majority of 3/4 votes. As far as punishment is concerned, the judges would decide. We have a proposal to give random citizens, jurors outside justice, the possibility of deciding guilt by a majority of 3/4 votes, so that it is not easy to convict someone, because it will be one or another constellation as part of the draw. A simple solution? It's pretty simple, isn't it? Why favour your judges or your judges? Besides, who's a good judge on their own? There is no telling what it is necessary to allow colleagues to actually show their colleagues, especially when we are talking about the elites of the legal profession. All you have to do is think about it in a simple way for a second to understand that these solutions that you're pushing, regardless of whether the PiS appoints 100 or 1,000 of their judges there will not work properly in the long term. So I appeal. : Relax your emotions, consider the Confederacy amendment, which goes beyond this tribal dispute that you are having here without any sense of embarrassment towards citizens who can - whether through a website or through the media - watch how this discussion looks. That you're gonna get it out, and because you had it, and because you had that one... What does this prove besides that there could be people everywhere who would be corrupt, like yesterday or the day before yesterday, who would cooperate with a stranger's intelligence or turn out to be drunks or thieves? They're gonna be like that in every line of work. Is it the Platform's fault or the PiS'? Just come to your senses, because what you're doing here is a shame. The effects of Ziobra's politics are critical so that someone doesn't misunderstand me. All these reforms, those implemented and those not implemented, have led to an extension of judicial proceedings. The entire ministry seems to be focused on personal issues. Not to improve proceedings, not just to make those sentences quicker. Not free courts, quick courts, such a slogan must be preached. Poles can't wait for justice. Whether one of the thousands judges is more or less just, you have no influence. Let's not kid ourselves. Whether this judge is PiS-owski, platformer, Iustitia or the caste group closed on Whatsapp... [[Voice from the courtroom: The judge is apolitical.]] ...you have no control over how he's gonna rule. Fortunately, this is not affected by the European Union either. As for the independence of the judge, we strongly support it. It is about independence not only from Minister Ziobra and every other minister, but also from the European Union. It cannot be that the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Commission or some pilgrimage from the European Parliament coming here will give us instructions as to how the Polish judges are to rule on these matters. [[Applause]] Polish judges are to be free from you and from the European Union, whose flag we have in the Chamber. It is not part of the fight for independence of judges what you are organizing, the Civic Platform and the Left, that is, organizing financial blackmail by Brussels towards the entire Polish state on the basis: the government will not have money to spend it or you will give up. What you're doing is not judicial independence. You're using this instrument. Look in your eyes, you are in favour of the judge's authority, only of those who favor you and not the government. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u273	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much, Mr Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's worth a start with some kind of symbol. It's about the decision that took place the day before yesterday. The court, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, restored Judge Igor Tuleja to judgment. This is significant because Judge Tuleja was suspended at the request of the prosecution by the illegal Supreme Court Disciplinar Chamber. The fact that this chamber only pretends to be a court, we, lawyers, have known for a long time, but today, after the judgments of Polish and European tribunals, we have this confirmed in black and white. This is confirmed by a final judgment on behalf of the Republic of Poland by a Polish court, by an element of the legally functioning power in Poland. The Disciplinary Chamber itself is only the result, or actually one of the consequences of the destruction of the justice system in Poland in the last 6 years. This has already been raised many times today - it is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland with the choice of the composition of the National Council of Courts. It should be the purpose of the Polish Sejm and of all those who are at the heart of the law, justice, the rule of law, the Polish constitution and the good of Poland. There are five bill designs on the table today. Only two of them - the Lefts and the Law Covenant - saw the problem in true colors. And these projects can count on our support. Parliamentary projects and Solidarna Polska are, of course, a misunderstanding in our assessment. We'll file a motion to reject them. I thank you, by the way, for the quotations on the court-martial, the completely unforgivable behavior of the judge, or the deliberate judgment of bad faith. They will be a great casuse for my students, a casus which shows how much you can not understand the principles of logic, the absolute basis for the functioning of an independent justice system, and by the way, cannot read with understanding the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Similarly, an example of absurdity, or perhaps more megalomania, will remain for me the concept of the title of former Supreme Court judge included in the draft signed, I understand, also by the Minister of Justice. How do we imagine this in practice? We're gonna be tried by a squad where there's gonna be one judge in the appeal court and two former Supreme Court judges? Please. There are many things in the President's proposal that are right, but there are also those that we are unable to accept. And so: participants in the Disciplinary Chamber cannot be members of the other Supreme Court chambers because they are not judges. They were premeditated in an illegal body, they were fully aware of it, and they always had it. For the same reason, they may not be entitled to retire. The resting state is a condition intended for judges. By the way, what would they be rewarded for? For disregarding legal order? For destroying the authority of real judges? All so-called. Disciplinary Chamber rulings should lose power, disappear, remain in disgrace. All proceedings that take place there should, by law, be terminated and all the judges harmed by this House must be rehabilitated, including financially. Finally, it is not and cannot be a disciplinary offence to rely on European law or to check the requirement of impartiality and independence of the court. We are part of the European legal system. I'm proud of it. How important it is for us to be part of the European Union and this system, today we can see beyond our eastern borders. There's a war going on, there's no respect for any law. In this respect, I recommend reading the position of 94 Supreme Court Judges. It is for Poland 2050, but also for Poland, the key shore conditions. There is no law, no justice, no rule of law. A comparison of the attitude of the Polish government to the attitude of the dressing room from the film "Mieszko" appeared in the statements that followed the judgment on Judge Tulea. I'm sure you remember the moment it happened: we don't have your coat, and what are you gonna do? Turns out the coat is, you have to give it back and pay dearly for it. But calmly, the law, justice and good always prevail. All you have to do is fight for it consistently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, near the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! It is good that the President has submitted a proposal for the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, because a moment later it turned out that we have a creative invention on the part of the United Right and we have two more projects. We're already debating five projects today. Today we are all well aware that the Polish state is right for the funds from the National Reconstruction Plan to sail to Poland. Today we heard from Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki that he is withdrawing from the harmful records of the Polish Order. You also withdrew from the Disciplinary Chamber when you said that the Disciplinary Chamber did not meet the expectations you had in it. Therefore, standing at the wall, you have decided that we will finally debate how to solve this unfortunate Disciplinary House. Let's do it. Today we need money from the National Reconstruction Plan. Today we need money for the Polish economy, we need breath for Polish entrepreneurs. You can handle this, but the Polish economy needs these resources and they should go. We have accepted 2 million refugees as a country. New jobs need to be created. This proposal, whether it will be the President's proposal after the amendments, will of course not end the dispute with the European Commission. The time will come for a comprehensive reform of the justice system. That is why I am appealing to everyone to take a half step backwards to work on a presidential project that is closest to unlocking these measures. There will be a moment for reform of the justice system. We know very well that this moment will not happen today, but we can lead to a situation where the Polish economy will have something to work on during the crisis. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, near Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Dear Marshal, Assembly Members! Circle of Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy. I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the regulations contained in the draft laws governing the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the criminal and disciplinary liability of judges. First of all, we would like to point out that so far attempts to reform the justice system are being carried out in a hasty and controversial manner, which significantly affects the loss of confidence of citizens in the judiciary, including the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, institutions of fundamental importance for the functioning of the Republic of Poland. In our opinion, reform of the justice system must be carried out, I say, reform rather than revolution. We would like to stress that the changes made to such an important matter as the status of the Supreme Court or the responsibility of judges should be subject to extensive public consultation, including with the participation of the academic community and practitioners of lawyers. In this respect, there should be an open debate in which every environment can present its concepts and assumptions, and the final shape of the reform developed by us, politicians, should be the result of a consensus of the social side, including very important organisations and associations of people affected by the judiciary, academics, practicing lawyers and, of course, the judicial community. With regard to the proposed legislation, given the wide scope and limited time, I will present the position of the circle in relation to the most important solutions. Firstly, the Disciplinary Chamber does not work, but is merely a source of political dispute, which is not good for Poland, especially at such a difficult time as we are at present. Secondly, in the face of the threat, it is not necessary to put the party interest over the interests of Poland, even if someone is convinced that the interests of his party are equivalent to those of Poland. For this reason, we should limit any internal disputes as soon as possible so that we can be as strong as possible outside. This requires us to listen to each other and seek compromise, so that in the face of threats we can be one, not a group of individuals who are convinced of their own right, which is very easy to play. The proposals of Solidarna Polska and the combined project of the Civic Coalition and the Left are revolutions. On the one hand, MEPs of Solidarna Poland propose to make a revolution in the Supreme Court, which has not been for decades, from day to day, without a wider consultation and reflection. The proposed changes might be worth considering, but only if a broad, substantive debate is taking place over them. Unfortunately, she ran out of time, and today we don't have time for her. The proposals of the Civic Coalition and the Left, in turn, are difficult to define differently than anarchy. Cancellation of the choice of judges, recognition of their remuneration as undue. How do these proposals fit into the standards of the democratic rule of law? The only reason you want to punish the judges is because they've completed the application on the wrong date. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] The implementation of these changes would result in significant destabilisation of Poland. Is that your goal? The President's proposal is balanced, albeit worthy of discussion and possible corrections. Especially since we have received two important signals from Brussels this week, that after a few months of dispute it is ready to conclude an agreement in a dispute concerning the Disciplinary Chamber and thus unblock the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Now it's our turn. Let's get to work instead of arguing here. Finally, I would like to remind you that the necessary elements of the reform of the justice system in Poland are the judges of peace. Here is a big thank you to the President for keeping his promise to Paul Kukiz before the election that he will draft such a bill. The bill is already in the High House and I call for it to be adopted as soon as possible, because this is the reform (The Bell), which Poles will feel the most quickly and deeply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, near the Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u280	It's a parliamentary circle. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Before I proceed with the presentation of the PPS Parliamentary Circle's position on the Parliamentary printing of the rule of law package, you will allow the Marshal to comment briefly on this passage by Minister Wójcik, in which he referred to the former passion of Mr Jan Bure. Mr Bury, various things can probably be said about Mr Bury and good, and those who know different case files may be bad. One thing, in my opinion, is clear today. Mr. Bury is an innocent person, and I think he will remain innocent until any conviction in his case is confirmed. It is indeed an instructive and depressing story in which a constitutional member of the Council of Ministers allows for this kind of insinuation in the Seym. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 6 years.]] And that's the way he wanted it to be during the rule of law discussion. I wish you, in your undoubtedly long career, not to find yourself in the same situation as Mr. Bury is now in, no matter how his story ends. Now, if you'll excuse me... [[Voice in the courtroom: 9 counts.]] He may have those charges 909. I don't know. I don't know the case file. But your duty as a civil servant is to uphold the law. [[Voice from the room: It is to tell the truth.]] And the basic canon of law enforcement is the presumption of innocence. Let's put an end to this exchange of views. Let me refer, first of all, to what your Marshal of the Sejm has decided to do, talking about combining the debate on five different drafts of the rule of law. You could say a great accumulation. It is a sign that the problem is so serious that the political class is and will be compatible with at least one, i.e. It's just that something about this problem needs to be done. Unfortunately, the agreement of the political class ends there, because the desire to solve this problem, I apologize for the colloquialism, this pate is accompanied by completely different, contradictory intentions about the goal. The presidential project seems to solve something, but of course the essence of the problem is not affected. It limits itself to the resolution of the Disciplinary Chamber and how to take care of its own and reward their service in the former Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. He is silent about the neo-KRS and the cessation of the harassment of judges who had the courage to oppose the setting up of a muzzle on the justice system. The Solidarna Polska project joyfully shouts: More the same, more smash, more row, more government control over courts, not a step back, we want more trouble, we want a fight with the Union, the European Commission, the Court of Justice, the Court of Human Rights and Germany! The PiS project always follows the principle: Courts of Justice, but justice must be on our side. If we have to make a difference, let's change it to ours. We're gonna fool the committee, and we're gonna tell people it's Tusk's fault. The dark people will buy it. How do we know that? All of this reminds us of seven years of constant brawling about judgments, fierce, worse, where confused public opinion no longer knows what's going on. And today, in my opinion, it is worth asking the rulers one question: What was it for? What have you achieved? This question is of particular importance in connection with the war in the East. Without it, of course, the lack of justice, the risk of losing huge EU funds, which Poland so much still needs, the tarnished opinion, the reputation in the eyes of the world's public, the destruction of a legal culture and respect for law in the Polish society would be a sufficiently devastating response. Further insistence on the neo-KRS, the Disciplinary Chamber today, concealing the increasingly grotesque judgments of the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal would force the basic question: Stupidity or sabotage? We know the right solution. It is a civic project, a project of the Association of Iustitia recommended also by Members, members of the circle of the Polish Socialist Party. I hope that the High House will share this view, because the stubbornness of power is costing us too much today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is, for today, more than EUR 140 million in penalties. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u281	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u282	PLN 770 billion are at risk from a 7-year perspective, 24 billion grants in the National Plan for Reconstruction and EUR 12 billion... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u283	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, in order to shorten your precious time, I will go straight to the heart of things, the heart of the whole matter, all the accusations that are placed on the European forum under the influence of national representatives who, instead of thinking about Polish interests, Polish sovereignty, think about their own particular, selfish party interests. This is not a dispute over the rule of law. In any case, it is certainly not a dispute about the rule of law in Poland. This is a dispute about sovereignty. The EU treaties say that Member States are equal in rights and obligations, equal in rights and obligations. The principle of equal treatment by law covers both individual countries and individual citizens. If something is allowed to a German, then it is allowed to a Pole. If something is slow for the Spanish, then it is also slow for the Pole. Therefore, if Spanish people are allowed to choose their judicial council through parliament, it means that it is also allowed for Poles. [[Applause]] And that is what it is about, that there are such in Poland and there - very eagerly taking up this subject in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, in the TSUE - who would like to take away this equal treatment, who would like to show that Poles are slow less than them. Yeah, that's the kind of Europe they like. In fact, the accusations or accusations made to Poland today by the European Commission or the TSUE start with this and that's what they all come down to. Some of you were paying attention, and they noticed it. Namely Polish parliamentarians had the courage to gain the same... [[You'll be returning the millions of euros from your own assets.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u285	Mr President, sit still and don't yell. I am speaking to you, sir. Sit still and don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u286	Hit the table, the scissors will talk. Truth in the eyes of the circle. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: People die...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u287	Member, don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u288	It is clear that the Member has responded emotionally because the truth is not always easy to accept. Therefore, listen to this truth a little more and don't interrupt. This is what parliamentary culture requires. I listened attentively to your comments. Because Polish parliamentarians had this audacity, they were so insolent that they allowed themselves to give the same power as Spanish parliamentarians, who, in the courts, choose the judicial council, iota into jota according to the same mechanism. And here they are, and the Poles are not allowed. [[The Constitution is.]] [[That's not true!]] This is not enough, because if this sin, which we supposedly committed and which Poland committed, as is claimed in European salons, was that we introduced a democratic mechanism, a political mechanism for the election of judges, indirectly, but not directly, then what do you say about the situation that is taking place in the case of the largest state of the European Union, namely Germany? In a situation where the constitution of Germany, which was passed by the basic law, is in force in this regard - despite various changes in that legal order - as regards the model of the election of judges since 1949, i.e. four years after the end of the war, after the Hecatomb, which the Germans made to the whole world, of 50 million victims of war, of World War II, after the suffering of the victims still alive at that time... It turned out that Germany was considered to be a mature democracy, which could, through a democratic factor, politically select its judges from the Supreme Court. They can, and we Poles, after 30 years of independence, after the time when we were victims of these Germans, then Germans in 1939, their assaults, we still did not see. We're not allowed. They're allowed. What kind of law is that? I'm going back to what I said at the beginning. The Treaties of the European Union say that everyone, both a citizen of the Member States and each country, is equal in law and obligations. How can Germany be able to elect its judges through parliamentary, democratic mechanisms, in this political sense? Like Churchill used to say, these are not perfect mechanisms, they have their flaws, but they also added that no one has come up with anything better. And in Poland, the introduction of an indirect parliamentary mechanism, a democratic mechanism, not by directing judges, as the Germans choose, but through the judicial council, is a crime. If it's a crime here, it's a crime squared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The only problem is that German woman, Mrs von der Leyen, head of the European Commission, who chose such a team and committee... I will now show it to you - the new elected German committee to elect judges. Do you see any judges here? Look, SPD, SPD, Greens, CDU, this is SPD. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Another Constitution.]] These are the mature Germans who just emerge... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Lepper was killed...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u289	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u290	...who simply emerge... [[Voice from the courtroom: Today's judges...]] [[But before that, the judges...]] ...Judges of the German Federal Court, the Supreme Court. They are worthy, they are allowed, and Poles are not allowed. You're telling us Poles aren't allowed. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u291	Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz, please stop...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u292	We once heard they were superhumans and subhumans. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u293	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u294	That is an entirely unacceptable argument. This is a disgraceful argument, disgraceful in the mouth of a Polish parliamentarian who agrees with such a narrative. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Time, time.]] The Pole is ashamed, I am ashamed for you, that you agree to something like this, that Germans come and teach us, say: we, Germans, are allowed to choose judges in Parliament's committee, and you, Poles - that is the way to say - are not allowed. [[No one's teaching us.]] Well, there's no permission to do that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And there will be no consent. [[Applause]] Poland has a sense of dignity, and our history gives us the right to demand only that, nothing more, that we have the same right as Germany. We don't want anything else. The same law as the Spanish, that's all we want. And that's what this argument is about. They're trying to humiliate us. They want to set us up as a third-plan member of the European Union. There's no permission to do that. I would like to say to you that, if we were to accept the logic proposed by the head of the European Commission, German von der Leyen, who, as I mentioned, as a member of the Bundestag, elected her colleagues to such a committee, which subsequently elected the judges of the German Federal Court, we would also have to agree that the Polish citizens, including your voters who are going to the elections, will be deprived of the right to have an indirect impact on the membership of the Supreme Court. Definitely deprived, because this means that we Poles must turn these decisions over to the sphere of competence of the judicial corporation only. And only a corporation that is not in itself endowed with the virtue of infallibility can make these decisions. On the other hand, democratic mechanisms are the salt of democracy, the essence of democracy, and they should be the foundation of the European Union. If they are a standard in many EU countries, it should not be so that this standard for us, Poles, is received and that we are still punished for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Polish citizen, who goes to elections, must have the right to elect any authority, because the Polish constitution in its fundamental point states that the superior authority belongs to... Who? To the European Commission, to the TSUE, to the judge's corporation? No. To the nation. And the nation, either through its representatives or through direct elections, as is the constitution, makes sovereign decisions. On the other hand, by agreeing to the EU narrative, you want to deprive the Polish people, Polish citizens, of these democratic powers. [[Voice from the room: Which recipe?]] What did democracy do to you? Why is the democratic mechanism so painful that you reject it in advance? [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Time.]] It may turn out, of course, that one day you will take power - hopefully this will not happen, I do not wish Poland badly - but then under these democratic mechanisms, if the voters so decide, judges will be elected to the judicial council according to your election. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Every marshal's microphone is turned off, and the minister isn't.]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister has the right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u295	Minister... [[The Minister has the right.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no right.]] [[Voice from the room: He has the right.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u296	The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provide that the Minister shall have the right to speak at any time and the speaking time of the Minister shall be unlimited. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The truth in the eyes of the circle. [[Applause]] There's been a lot of speeches, so let me finish right now. Ladies and gentlemen! Many people, acting here, apart from the numerous manipulations and lies which in the mouth of representatives, not all, but many representatives of the opposition were there - it can be said that in some cases the lie was chasing manipulation, and manipulation was chasing lies - it applied, and I will refer to it too, to the context in which Poland is today. We are witnessing an unprecedented armed attack on Ukraine by Russia. Not only Ukrainian soldiers die, but also defenseless civilians, women and children, kindergartens, horrors, hospitals, nursing homes are bombarded. We're dealing with a villain who's willing to do whatever it takes to pursue his purpose, including committing crimes. We are all outraged by this barbarism. Poland provides great assistance to Ukraine, both politically and in the field of arms, playing a strategic role, but above all humanitarian aid. In a short time we gave hospitality and support to over 2 million Ukrainians, mainly women and children. [[Poles.]] The Poles, through their open hearts, with the involvement of the government, the involvement of the whole state, the commitment of the opposition, I give - we are all engaged in this process - showed the world their true face, their true face. A world that often in the media drew us as xenophobics unable to help others. Today, how different we look at Poland and our true face. The events in the East also show an extremely important role for NATO. We're in the North Atlantic Alliance with a proven, reliable partner. We never refused to help our allies when needed, and we can count on this help, which also gives us strength. [[Applause]] But the events beyond our eastern border also show the value of sovereignty. Remember how many generations of Poles had to fight for independence and sovereignty. Unfortunately, it seems that not everyone shares these obvious, it would seem, arguments. Well, right after the war, Donald Tusk made a statement that he soon had to be ashamed of and with which cancer had to withdraw with subsequent statements. [[But this isn't a press conference.]] They can be summarised in one sentence, that the opposition will act in defence of Poland together with the government, if the government agrees to the actual limitation of sovereignty against the unfounded demands of the EU institutions, in accordance with the principle: money for sovereignty. This is an outrageous attitude in the case of a policy whose omission has contributed to the impudence of Russia. This is Donald Tusk, and I will remind you - you were very proud of it - he was the head of the European Council for 5 years and was the main figure in the European Union alongside the head of the European Commission. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] When Putin occupied Donbas and Crimea, Donald Tusk performed this function. It was the European Union, in which it was one of the most important functions, that allowed Russia and Germany to implement Nord Stream 2, to use Nord Stream 1. It was Tusk who agreed to an absurd climate policy course pushed by Germany, which resulted in moving away from coal to gas. Whose gas? Whose do you think it is? [[Get to the point, Minister, get to the point.]] Russian gas. [[Applause]] Germany has imposed the pro-Russian direction of EU policy on account of its enormous influence, although it is up to the Union as a lively responsibility for energy security. This is the competence of the Union. On the other hand, the Union does not have jurisdiction over the organisation of justice or the system of justice. [[Applause]] No one can find a single word about this, even with a magnifying glass or a microscope. And in this sense, it can be said that these are German politicians - which is already out loud all over the world, about which even the German press has repeatedly reported with shame - they have political responsibility, and their closest coalitioners and co-workers, for what Putin is doing today in Ukraine. They supported Putin's Russia despite numerous crimes and assaults, using their enormous influence in the European Union. And nothing at that time meant values, human rights, fundamental rights, and all the fundamental ideas that supposedly link the European Union and form its identity. Putin's crimes weren't impressive. Let me remind you the facts: the Second Chechen War, the scale of the crimes and murders on the civilian population, Anna Politkowska, Aleksandr Litvinenko, former President of the European Court of Human Rights, even his service Putin tried to poison. I'm going to skip the other annexes and the criminal assaults that Putin's regime committed. [[We're about to vote.]] Boris Niemcow, Sergei Skripal, Wadim Krasikow, Navalny, etc. [[And this is all Tusk's fault?]] [[The voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines?]] [[Voice from the room: and Zientarski.]] After all, these examples can be multiplied. But it didn't bother these EU politicians to shake hands, this bloody hand, Putin, and support with all their might that monster grow. Now he's assaulted Ukraine. [[Applause]] It is this EU policy that has led to this. And Mrs. Angela Merkel's ally in these matters and the contractor of her work was a man named Donald Tusk, whom you are so proud of. Well, it's worth it, by the way, because we're actually talking about the judiciary, the justice system... [[By the way. Five projects.]] ...in this context, which is taking place, to quote a few facts. Who was responsible for the idea of parole, the money for the rule of law? Well, a certain Günther Oettinger, German Commissioner in the previous European Commission. Who was involved in this regulation in the European Parliament? [[Who signed it?]] The German Terry Reintke. Then the former Minister of Justice of Germany, which I had the pleasure or relative pleasure to host in Warsaw... [[But what does it matter now?]] ...forsought this solution - one Mrs. Barley, who was famous for advising Poland to starve... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...that is, she pushed for what her people had done several decades before in Warsaw and other cities of Poland. [[Get to the point.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] The first European minister who attacked the Polish Constitutional Tribunal for ruling on the primacy of the Constitution over the Treaties was the German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas... [[You have a German phobia.]] [[Applause]] ...and the leading role in the European Parliament in the attacks on Poland is played by Manfred Weber, President of the faction of the European People's Party, whose leader is Donald Tusk. Also at the executive level, when e.g. Minister Warchoł flew to Brussels to negotiate with the European Commission the issue of art. 7, the officials played a direct and decision-making role, which is strange, German. [[Mr. Marshal...]] The same political hand that is responsible for the EU's policy of building the monster, Russia Putina, is behind the leading machine of attack on Poland... [[Goodbye speech.]] ...and actions destabilizing our country, to the joy of Putin, and perhaps also from his inspiration, given the history of such politicians as Gerhard Schröder and others like him. I think it is extremely meaningful recently to say that the former ambassador of the United States, a country with the best intelligence, has said: the Union is currently dealing with the rule of law in Poland and is debating sanctions. It is time to say it out loud - I quote - when it comes to the problems of the rule of law, a large part of what reaches the West was a result of Russian - yes, Russian - disinformation. Both the Union and America accepted it uncritically. [[Applause]] The curia of the current situation is therefore the one to whom the Union applies the strictest sanctions. In front of Poland. It blocks the payment of funds due to us from KPO, which is a big loan, which also Poland, Poles are living and whose instalments are already paid, paying higher contributions e.g. for the plastic tax - and other institutions, financial instruments are involved in their implementation - but she still has not applied these most painful, harsh sanctions against Putin, contrary to the announcements of Chancellor Scholz in the Bundestag. It is about excluding Russian banks from the SWIFT system and completing Russian gas and oil purchases jointly across the European Union. It shows this hypocrisy, it shows this cynicism, it shows this lie. Napoleon said that three things are needed for war: first, money, second, money and third, money. And who sends Putin a few hundred million euros every day to wage this war? The European Union. That's why it needs to be changed. This hypocrisy must be exposed and this action must be terminated, which contradicts the fundamental ideas underlying the European Union, European values, human rights, fundamental rights. Yes, in the name of those rights I often hear about from you and those EU politicians who want to prosecute us for an alleged, imaginary violation of the rule of law, because we have the audacity to introduce the same mechanism for the election of judges as they do. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Even your government colleagues do not believe these lies.]] Well, coming out of the same positions, out of respect for these fundamental rights, this suffering, these Ukrainian children killed, murdered, bleeding, we should make this gesture and take real sanctions, but against those who deserve it, not against Poland. Poland requires support, solidarity for this heart, which it has shown to all those who need it most today. Thank you. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u297	We're moving on to the next part. There are Members enrolled in the questions. As the first Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's drafts of legislation, e.g. the one presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, are aimed at strengthening the independence of the judge, but it must be made clear that the impunity of persons pursuing a particular public trust cannot be allowed. Is it not important to stress that the principle of judicial independence is not absolute? This issue was strongly emphasised by the judgment of the TSUE of 15 July 2021. On the last Tuesday, the TSUE ruled as inadmissible questions for a preliminary ruling on the legality of the chosen Supreme Court judges. The initiator of this case was a Poznań judge, of course acting in the Association of Iustitia. I have a request for some of the opposition politicians: open the constitution, read it, show us whose prerogative it is to appoint judges. I answer: the President of the Republic of Poland. Can judges carry out public activities incompatible with the principle of independence? They can't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u299	Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've failed a great deal. It has to be made clear. After seven years of your government, the judiciary is in a huge collapse. There's never been such a shame before. You were seven years old for this. You were talking about reforms, and all you really did was politicize, politicize and politicize. You put your guys everywhere, you thought they'd do your dirty work. They won't, because there's over 3 million outstanding cases today. The nation chose sovereignty and sovereignly said that it wanted to have independent courts, that the courts should be independent, that judges should be the mouths of the law, not politicians. That they don't want judges like Piebiak, Schab, Radzik and others who are really your agents in the judiciary who are blowing up the judiciary. You guys are just messed up. Instead of courts, you just want to have your (bell) courts, and that's a misfortune. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u301	Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u302	High Izbo! I'll speak calmly. Why does none of the government's drafts remove the grounds for the dispute, namely the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights which is incompatible with EU law in the manner in which the National Judicial Council is set up and, consequently, objections to the recommendation of the judges' promotions, not to mention judgments handed down with the participation of new judges? The draft of the Association of Judges by the opposition parties to the Sejm provides for the reform of the National Judicial Council, the majority of which would be elected directly by the Judges, rather than by the Sejm, as set up by the PiS. Delegated judges selected from the recommendations of the current KRS could join the new competition (the bell). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u303	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought the representatives of the United Right had withdrawn from the words about the Brussels occupation, from other epithets. I thought there was a consensus in this room that the enemy is one and this enemy is not in Berlin, it's not in other European capitals, it's the enemy in Moscow. But after the Minister's speech, I dare doubt all of this. I have a question for Minister Ziobra on behalf of the coalition club because I waited patiently for the answer to this fundamental question, so I will repeat it again. Is Mr. Minister and Club, the faction of Solidarna Polska within the United Right, in support of the President's project, which will be a key project leading in the work on these projects, or is it distancing itself from it and opposed to it? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: He's distansing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u305	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the submitted projects are inadequate, to say the least, and at times even puriozal. The opposition, bringing in the project of the judicial community, the Iustitia project, shows that it is signing under all the pathologies of the judicial system that have taken place over the last 30 years. You live on the pathology of the Polish judiciary. This is embarrassing and unfortunately it also shows your indolence, political and legal impotence in this regard. As far as the government is concerned, of course, the government wants to encourage those judges to replace them with their judges. That's not the point either, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederation makes a very concrete amendment which is able to solve the pathologies of the Polish judiciary when it comes to judging judges. A social factor needs to be introduced. It is necessary for judges to judge the jury, not the judges of PiS-owscy (the bell) or the platformer of each other. This is the essence of the case. [[The Member is in high school, you know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u307	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it's complicated legal matter, but basically it's a very simple choice. On the one hand, the rule of law, honesty, European funds and here is also the right state. On the other hand, the pathological vision of the people who created in the ministry a systemic hatchet of trolls operating de facto hand in hand with Russian trolls and who yesterday voted against sanctions for Russian transport. But even for these politicians, the PiS should be clear that the interests of the state and the interests of citizens are beyond their little political interests, that you cannot, even unconsciously, play in an enemy orchestra. Today, it is in the interest of the state to rule of law and to unblock funds from the European Fund for Reconstruction. The PiS government cannot act against the interests of Poland. Minister! It's time to turn around and get on the road to the rule of law. This is Poland's business. Minister, this is what we are calling for today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u309	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In its ruling on the functioning of the Disciplinary Board, the Court of Justice of the European Union found that the principle of judicial independence is not absolute and, in certain situations, the judge may be liable for the content of the judgments. And the question is whether the proposed draft is fully in line with the wording of the justification for the judgment of the TSUE, in particular the thesis on the admissibility of judges in cases, I quote: serious and completely unforgivable behaviour by the judge, consisting in particular of intentional, resulting from bad faith or from extremely serious and gross negligence in violation of the law, on the arbitrary filing of judgments or on the refusal of justice. Further questions to President Mark Ast, the representative of the applicants of the Club of Law and Justice: What is the issue of disciplinary liability of judges in Poland for the content of their judgments so far? Let us remind you that judges, for example. in Germany, and this country (the bell) is most often called upon by Members of the opposition, this is the responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u311	Mr Piotr Zientarski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that, following the example of President PiS, he will finally abandon the rhetoric of the imaginary community. I am asking when the Ministry of Justice will abandon the lying and really imagined alleged conflict between the Constitution and the founding treaties of the European Union. Both the constitution and the treaties are based on the same axiological foundations, i.e. the foundations of a democratic rule of law. I'm asking you what kind of legal games constitutionally support the position of Minister of Justice. I'll remind you of last year's position, the dean of the law departments, including KUL. I ask what position the Ministry of Justice has on the conclusions of the conference, which I had the pleasure of leading as chairman of the rule of law defence team in the Senate 2 years ago (the bell) where among others. Professor... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u313	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club. [[The Englishman said you're Russian.]] Mr President, please step out of the podium. [[Okay, that's great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Russian agents themselves are issuing sentences.]] [[Read it. There's a publication.]] Quiet, please, okay? Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u315	Well, you see, uh...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u316	I can see that the emotions have warmed up. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to data from the Institute for Internet Research and Social Media, 90% accounts that were activated just before Russia's attack on Ukraine and spread pro-Russian propaganda were previously involved in spreading anti-vaccine content. We could see about the power of misinformation when it led to Brexit. I have a question for Prime Minister Kaczyński: Why are you clinging to Solidarna Polska, which has spread anti-vaccine propaganda alongside the Confederation and which is spreading anti-EU propaganda? The PiS coalition with Solidarna Poland is harmful to Poland. Today, Prime Minister, you have a chance to break this toxic relationship, to correct the mistakes you have made in the judiciary, and to end the dispute with the European Commission. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: That's where the last Russian agents are sitting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u317	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. There's no envoy. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for both the applicants and our colleagues who have submitted parliamentary projects. Well, High Izbo, we must be aware - this is what Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has just mentioned - that undoubtedly the concept of the rule of law can be the subject of very many manipulations. This is what she said earlier, a few days ago former Ambassador Mosbacher: we should apologize to Poland - means we as America and the West - because much information about the Polish rule of law was the subject of Russian disinformation. Surely this kind of circumstance is confirmed by the fact that there is no single justice system in the European Union, the appointment of judges, promotions or disciplinary action. Therefore, I have a question for applicants, for all: Do we have a uniform system of appointing judges in the European Union or a uniform system of disciplinary proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: No, because Russian agents broke down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u319	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u320	Nearly 300,000. PLN per year is the remuneration of Minister Ziobra for numerous positions: Minister of Justice, Prosecutor General, member of the National Court Register, Member of the Sejm. PLN 710 million today is the sum of penalties for the fact that the illegal Disciplinary Chamber inspired by Minister Zioba is still in operation and will continue to function under a different name only. 280 billion zlotys are funds which Poland still has not received from the European Fund for Reconstruction, because the government, headed by the Minister of Justice, is breaking the law. If we lose this money, our country will suffer a total loss of over PLN 281 billion. That's the value of seven years of your flagship 500+ program. Is it worth that much to the United Rights Attorney, Minister, member of the KRS, Zbigniew Ziobro? [[Voice from the room: Worth it.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is well known that Russian agents.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u321	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u322	The question to PiS, and really to Solidarna Polski, which, as you know, governs PiS. Why do you want to get Poland out of the European Union? Why do you propose ever worse laws breaking the rule of law in Poland and EU law? Why do you expose Poland to huge financial penalties and the loss of so much needed EU funds from the Fund for Reconstruction? Can you really not see that you are acting against the Polish state, which is particularly evident now during the Putin war against Ukraine? Today you have a chance to withdraw from this harmful policy. Withdraw your projects and support opposition projects. Thanks to this, you will immediately unlock EU funds for the National Reconstruction Plan, because this is a true state right and that is what sovereigns expect you to do. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Not enough about Putin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u323	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We need to work on projects about the Supreme Court proposed by the President of the Republic of Poland, the Law and Justice Club and Members of Solidarna Polska, and the opposition projects should be thrown into the basket. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] What will be the number of Supreme Court judges following the entry into force of the bill proposed by Members of Solidarna Poland? What will be the status of the Supreme Court after the introduction of the Solidarna Polski project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The same as in Russia, I'm sure.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you doing with Russia?]] [[Voice from the hall: Something you often mention about this Russia.]] [[The voice from the hall: 'Cause he woke up, since it's the weekend.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u325	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 3 November Poland has been paying EUR 1 million for each day of non-compliance with the Court's ruling. 141 million EUR, or nearly 700 million PLN. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] On 19 October in the European Parliament, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Digitisation, Finance and Development, came forward and declared that the Chamber would be wound up. So? Nothing. It's a shocking example of impositability, and the penalty counter is still beating. There is also a disinformation that you will also know that Minister Nowak unblocked the KPO yesterday, but today he unblocked the position of Minister of Development. I would like to say very clearly: more Europe is more security. Less Europe is more Putina. Today you can see where Hungary is, which has put greed and theft of power above values and treaties. Thank you very much. [[You and Putin worked together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u327	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Since this morning, the opposition has been trying to undermine our entire legal system in Poland at all. [[Voice from the room: Yours.]] During this morning's debate, you spoke about the trucks that are going from Germany to the east, or from other countries to the east, you shouted what we were saying about the European Union, that we are in Poland, Poland can. I would like to remind you that the European Union is, after all, the successor of the economic community, the European Economic Community and is primarily concerned with the economy, which is mainly a customs union and should deal with the justice system of a lawless, independent, independent, sovereign state. Today, in this debate, this is what you are questioning when it comes to justice. I have a question for you: do you really want what your project is saying so that you can question the judgments given by the judges appointed by the President, or is that what you want in this whole debate right now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: That is what Putin is about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u329	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hundreds, thousands of Ukrainians die today outside our eastern border because they are fighting to be part of the Western world: the European Union and NATO. In Poland, millions of Poles help each day with their own costs, their own money, private time, and at that time you insist that the best model of the judiciary in Poland is just as organized as in proputinist Russia, where judgments are handed down by the authorities... [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: There is Putin.]] ...where a citizen is vulnerable and power is impunity. That's how it is. By the way, you are blocking 700 billion PLN from the European Union at a time when they are needed. Why? Because Ziobro wants his hooks on Moravian. You guys really aren't embarrassed, are you, in English? Minister! The President has also presented one project, but as a doctor of law, the President should know that changing the name of the Disciplinary Chamber will not result in apolitical courts. The neo-KRS will continue to function, the Julia Przyłębska Tribunal will continue to function and politicians will continue to influence (the bell) the decisions of the courts. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Come to your senses.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u331	Mr Michał Woś, Law and Justice. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Putin, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In a situation where a Kremlin criminal goes crazy behind our eastern border... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yes, sir. Putin everywhere, bravo!]] There is Putin, yes, I will no longer comment on this, because all of Poland regrets what it sees when it sees you, too, Mr. In any case, in this situation Poland needs a strong state, and a strong state can only be when all the authorities are really pursuing the interests of the Republic of Poland, and not when one of the authorities is leading a specific rebellion, a judicial rebellion side by side with opposition here, in the country, and in Brussels under the pretext of politicisation. In this connection, a very simple question, ladies and gentlemen, which body is politicised: 100% composed of politicians as a European hegemon or in a vast majority composed of judges with constitutional guarantees, who enjoy a term of office, selected in accordance with Article. 187 constitutions? Read the constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u333	Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is only one way out of the laws under review: the Augias stable must be cleansed and international law and the Constitution respected. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Then Poland will be a democratic country and will receive the key to the European vault, in which there are tens of billions of euros waiting for Poles. I appreciate the President's will to fix the situation in the Supreme Court and the National Courts, but as the English proverb says, you can't be half pregnant, which means you can't be half pregnant. There are no half measures and no compromises on justice. The law must meet three of the most far-reaching conditions: safeguard the independence of judges, eliminate the so-called. The Disciplinary Chamber and restore to judgment the dismissed judges. Question: "Is the Polish government ready to meet the above requirements and return (the bell) to the tracks of democracy?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u335	Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a doctor, I also have my medical court in professional matters, but it's not the same as the judges. This is our authority which constitutes judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland. This power cannot be unpunished, it cannot be outlawed and it cannot speak of itself as an extraordinary caste because you have led it as politicians, that they speak of themselves as an extraordinary caste. I know the statement of the Court of First Instance on independence in the Court of First Instance: if the judge says that he is a law-abiding, then he is a law-abiding. End of story. So that's the responsibility between you and me. The Member once told me that the courts would clear themselves. No, they're not. They're not gonna clean up. Therefore, there must be discipline tools for wrongdoing, including discipline in actions that will force us to think correctly. Question to the Minister: What will be the status of judges of the Disciplinary Chamber (Dawn) after the introduction of projects other than the project... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u337	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of all five draft laws aimed at restoring the Polish law of order and rule of law, this project of the Civic Coalition provides a guarantee of Poland's recovery and return to the countries of civilization and the rule of law. There is no doubt - you can say what you want - there is no doubt about the constitutional, conventional and treaty flaws in the status of the Disciplinary Chamber and its decision-makers. [[One example.]] Such reservations shall be confirmed by decisions relating to disciplinary or criminal prosecution of judges in respect of decisions or legal views given. Only this law comprehensively corrects the shortcomings of judicial reform and guarantees us the restoration of the rule of law, respect for the principles of law, which should be the foundation of our state order. In short, democracy, the rule of law, an alternative in transition periods (the Bell), transparency in elections and compliance with the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u339	Mr Jacek Decoration, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit, this is a unique opposition. An opposition that threatens democracy. Because how can there be a scenario other than the opposition, which one person, e.g. Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz says something is against the constitution, and yet I didn't know you had such competence. Mrs. Żukowska's the same. I understand this purple refers to a toga, but you're not a judge. If you're a judge, then you're a judge. You're the judge, but I understand you're an apolitical judge, so you're sitting in this courtroom. I appreciate you sharing your options with me. But I'd like to point out one thing, really. How come... or somebody point out... As you come out here, you are still complaining about the Law and Justice, about Solidar Poland, and none of you are able to identify one rule in the Treaty policy, which shows that there is one justice system in the European Union. Why are the Spaniards different? Why else, e.g. Do they have Germans? KRS, I understand, but what else? There are others, I understand. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because they have a different constitution.]] I understand that Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz claims that for example. Germany is better than a Pole. Because he's got what? Greater legal culture. Greater culture, he's better than a Pole. This is the policy of the complex. Dangerous policy of the complex (The Bell), which must not be cultivated. And the question... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I would like a correction.]] At the end, at the end. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Member does not understand what I am saying. I would like to explain to him what the Polish constitution looks like, what the rules are.]] At the end. Member, please. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But Mr Marshal, I have the right to correct]] At the end, I said. Yeah, at the end. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: May I?]] At the end. In the end, don't you understand? At the end. After the speeches. At the end. Now she has the voice of Mrs Kozłowska. [[Voice from the room: Give me the money. Did the loan pay off? Please pay your credit first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The four-year functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber has cost Poles over PLN 50 million so far. It's a huge amount. The House should therefore be resolved, and those who sit there and harm Poland consciously, as lawyers, should be sent back to their previous posts. So-called. The dispersal of these misappointed judges to the chambers of the Supreme Court or their transfer to the general courts with the title of Supreme Court Judge only repeats the mistakes that have been made so far. And the judgments given with them will always be open to question. The idea of them going to rest is contrary to the principles of social justice. Because how do you explain, especially to seniors with the lowest pension, that faultyly appointed judges as pensioners will be paid a dozen or tens of thousands of zlotys a month? The only thing that is acceptable is that they retire on the basis of the worked-out (the bell) before moving to the initial capital chamber. Because... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u343	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. Madam, you have already finished your speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today there were many words from this speaker about the independence of the judge, about a professional group that cannot be held responsible for its work, i.e. for issuing judgments. It's an apolitical caste. No, ladies and gentlemen, these are not my words, but the judges' representatives, and I quote: I have defended judges all my life, and I think this is an extraordinary caste. And as it is, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows, especially those who are meeting with the courts. The president's project is to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber. My question is: What will be the status of the judges of this House after the introduction of this particular project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u345	Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u346	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The question of state sovereignty has a fundamental and fundamental dimension, there should be no doubt here. Therefore, all those who report on their own country are reporting on Poland, demanding punishment for Poland, should be ashamed. In fact, all these people should be very ashamed. We must remember that sovereignty also has an economic dimension and there is no doubt about it. The whole world shows us that those who are richer have more to say. This was the case in geopolitical science, and this is probably the case, which is why sovereignty is also a matter of economic sovereignty and rapid dynamic development. That is why we need to make decisions brave, but also wise, so that we can grow fast and dynamically. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that such total impunity for judges is not the state we want to pursue, and there is no doubt about it either. That is why I have this question: Is there any way that the Chamber of Professional Responsibility will be able to hold those judges responsible who commit illegal acts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u347	Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? There isn't. Mr Jan Kanthak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the opposition: Have you realized that the law doesn't work? That the wave was moved and the hunting season for Poland is over? Donald Tusk is nothing more than a relic of merkelism. And merkelism has already gone bankrupt, which is what we see best in the current geopolitical situation. And the dogs are really barking, and the caravan's gonna keep going. Thank you. [[And there's no money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u349	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You guys, lying opposition from the Civic Platform and the PSL, you were doing deals with Putin... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: There is Putin.]] ...you gave Putin billions, billions of euros, and today you're lecturing us? You're talking about the rule of law? It is the European Commission that is compromised by the cooperation with Putin. Von der Leyen, Frans Timmermans - you support them. Today you are begging for money from the European Union, which belongs to Poland. So, Mrs. Żukowska? You want the judges who were rapists, bribers who were drunks to be restored? There's absolutely no consent for that. We defend the sovereignty, the sovereignty of the arms of Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. And you Communists, the Civic Platform that worked with Putin, are simply defending these compromised Eurocrats. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Bravo, Putin!]] We just don't have our permission to do it. The rule of law must be restored to the European Union and restored. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And you want haters and anti-Semitics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u351	Mrs... [[Voice from the hall: Kamilka, sit down.]] Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u352	Don't yell 'cause I'm stressed, and I wanted to speak too. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 7 and Article 7 39 (1) (a) 2 resolutions of the Polish Parliament of 30 July... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Smile, I'd like a moment of peace, please. ...the rules of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland request the adoption of a proposal submitted and signed by a group of 19 Members for rejection in full at first reading of the following projects. The first project is a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the National Council of Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, contained in print no 2012. The second project is a parliamentary bill amending certain laws in order to abolish the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, print No 2049. These projects: a print project submitted by Members of the Civic Coalition and the Left 2012 and a print project submitted by Members of the Left 2049 do not deserve to be carried out... [[Why?]] Wait, wait, wait, wait. Don't get upset, judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u353	I don't think you'll make it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u354	...especially when it comes to filing... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u355	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u356	... further competing projects, printing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u357	Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice. Mr President, you are done. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[A voice from the courtroom: But in the courtroom, there is talk of things, and unfortunately you did not speak of things.]] [[But if I'd been like this in the O.R., I'd have been escorted out.]] [[But you have fighters in this Solidar Poland.]] [[The voice from the hall: Krzysiek, nice boy, isn't it?]] [[Voice from the room: You're cooler.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is a serious debate, and what are you doing?]] Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Opposite! You defend the extraordinary caste, and in your speeches you insult thousands of judges who honestly and honestly carry out their duties, you call them cameramen and political executioners. Let me just remind you, as you have already said, that Polish justice solutions are similar to others in Western Europe, but it is necessary to recall the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which carried out control in Poland and which stated that there are old democracies, independent, where politicians can choose judges, and new democracies where different standards need to be introduced. We don't agree to such double standards. We want to have standards as they are all over Europe. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Accept the German constitution. We have Polish.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't interrupt, Kamila.]] Question for the Ministry of Justice. According to the Civic Coalition project, the judges who participated in the nomination procedure with the participation of the new KRS (the bell), as you call it, may be deprived of office. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u359	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: We disagree.]] Yeah, that's how we ended the questions. There will now be speeches by the representatives of the applicants. [[Voice from the room: Corrections.]] Corrections. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, corrigendum. I'm still reporting for corrigendum.]] Mrs Barbara Dolniak. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one in this Chamber disputes that the President appoints judges because that is the Constitution's provision, but in order for him to do so, he must have a motion chosen in accordance with the Constitution of the National Judicial Council. [[And it's consistent.]] If there is no such choice in accordance with the Constitution, please answer the value of such a proposal. That's one thing. Secondly, you are referring to the systems in force in other countries, but look at the constitution in force there. She creates the rules of choice, the rules by which the law is made and the authorities are chosen. [[That's not a correction.]] These rules should be respected, and the fact that you're screaming in this courtroom, applauding your colleagues, that only testifies to you because you're making a serious cabaret theme. [[That wasn't a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u361	Whoever screamed was screaming. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, as corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u362	Mr. Ornamental! Art. 19 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union makes it very clear that Poles have the right to effective legal protection, i.e. to independent courts. And this treaty makes it very clear that as a result of the PiS actions in the judicial system, this judicial protection is ineffective because it is not in accordance with the Polish constitution that this body was formed, which is responsible for the choice of judges. The Polish Constitution is very clear: The Sejm has the right to elect four judges of the KRS. Four and not one more. You chose 15. [[Voice from the Chamber: A law regulates the work of the Sejm.]] You interrupted the term of those who were chosen correctly. The EU tribunals have also made it clear that the monster you have appointed does not fulfil their constitutional functions. He doesn't act by law, he doesn't protect the independence of the courts, he doesn't protect the independence of the judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Kaleta now has the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We are not on you. Enough with the chauvinistic lyrics.]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There is no voice.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u364	Microphone. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In this House, we differ in the assessment of the direction of judicial reform, which is the essence of parliamentarians. However, in recent years, international institutions have been involved in our internal affairs, even though we have never entrusted them with such powers. It applies double standards to Poland. What you are allowed to call Germany or Spain in Poland and encourage others to call destruction of the rule of law. You allow Poland to be taught to teach us that we are a country of young democracy and to apply standards in our country that do not apply to these Western countries. Rzewuski, Potocki, Branicki, the fathers of the marketplace, would look at the Polish opposition today with delight. The opposition's proposals are unfortunately written on their knees in front of Berlin and Brussels. [[Applause]] They are pushing solutions that take away Poland's sovereignty and entrusting against the constitution authority over the third power not to the Polish nation, which according to art. 4 the Constitution exercises power either directly or through its representatives, but through the European Union. These laws should never be the subject of parliamentary work because they defy the dignity of this House. Projects which consider the appointments of judges to be invalid and handed down by judges are not only extreme, obvious violations of the Constitution, but above all provocative for Polish history and the way to fight freedom and democracy in Poland. Such mechanisms were never applied to judges who condemned the opposition to prison in war, generally communist judges. Solutions such as the reimbursement of salaries were not proposed for the Stalinist murderers. This project you're proposing is a disgrace. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I would now like to move on to the evaluation of other laws that have sought to resolve the problem of ensuring a real and functioning system of disciplinary responsibility. Before I proceed, I would like to correct this because there were various voices about the reforms of the Ministry of Justice, Solidarna Polska. It has been said that the current Supreme Court Act is not part of the reform of the judiciary proposed by the Ministry of Justice, but is the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, who made these proposals when he vetoed our solution. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Will you support them?]] Established in 2018, the Disciplinary Chamber broke the long-term pathology of corporate solidarity in the judicial environment. Therefore, since the first day of its operation, its judges have been subjected to enormous pressure from the opposition and media background. The European Commission, as it says in terms of values, also says that judges should not rule. What else to call it, if not a gigantic emphasis on judicial independence. In the course of this work, we will examine the future shape of solutions for disciplinary proceedings, while it is worth noting who really insists on the independence of these judges. I would now like to point out some of the risks and risks that arise in the President's proposal. Unfortunately, some solutions, instead of resolving the problem of the unlawful and damaging Polish justice system of questioning the status of one judge by another, can only deepen it. First of all, the Constitutional Tribunal stated in a number of judgments, of which there are currently six, that it is incompatible with the Constitution that the Union's authorities interfere in assessing the validity of the existing judicial nominations, undermining them. Therefore, it would be unfair and incompatible with the Constitution to introduce in the Polish order solutions such as a new test for impartiality, which would allow for the removal from judgment of judges appointed in recent years, or a new type of action which would give the right to compensation for judgments given regardless of their content, but by the very fact that a judgment was given by a particular judge. These solutions create a gigantic risk of paralyzing the judiciary, generating millions of new cases in a short time, and they would not solve the problems of constitutional violations by judges who anarchise our country. This can be compared to a situation where a family doctor cannot write a prescription until he has been approved by five colleagues from the medical authority, or a situation where the teacher cannot give a single grade to the student until the entire pedagogical board has considered it. These examples illustrate the scale of paralysis in the functioning of courts if this regulation were to enter into force. Such procedures additionally expose the group to unnecessary humiliation (the bell) of almost 2 000. judges who normally rule, and none of them over the years...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u365	Thank you, Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: Marshal, can I have another minute? No, thank you very much. Now the State Secretary at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate on the projects, including the President's proposal. After hearing these voices, also the questions asked, it must be said that the President's proposal is undoubtedly a comprehensive proposal that solves the most important problems, undoubtedly in line with the Constitution and with the law of the European Union. It should be made very clear at this point that it is the President of the Republic of Poland who, at the request of the National Courts, appoints judges, and that is the prerogative of the President, which is undisputable and is not subject to an assessment of any court. This is clear from both the case-law of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the case-law of the TSUE. At this point, both the judgment prior to the month, 22 February, and the judgment before 2 days, where the TSUE clearly indicated that the circumstances of the appointment were not the basis for questioning the status of the judge. In this respect, the case-law is absolutely consistent with the case-law also presented by national courts. The judge's status is indisputable. There is no question of his examination by the courts after the president's appointment. And that's not a guarantee. only for the judge, but above all for the parties to the proceedings. I would like to draw attention to one more aspect. In total, during the first and now ongoing second term, President Andrzej Duda has appointed over 2 000. Judges. It is with great surprise not to say, outrageousness, one must ask what these judges deserved to be described as judges. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because they are not judges.]] These are the people who graduated from law school, passed the most difficult corporate exam that is... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But they were not called, elected by... constitutional.]] Let me finish. They passed the exam, went through the KRS procedure and were appointed by the president. And no one's questioning that. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: EU ruling.]] As I say, none of the judgments undermines the procedure for the appointment of the President, Madam Member. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Of course he is questioning.]] To answer two questions that have been raised by your PiS Members, I would like to inform you that of course there are no EU standards as to the shape of the National Court or as to disciplinary justice. And to answer Mrs Burzyńska's question about the status of judges of the Disciplinary Chamber after the liquidation of the Chamber, I would like to say that I mentioned this in a few words in my speech. The President's proposal is that judges will be offered a seat by the first President of the Supreme Court, other chambers of the Supreme Court, excluding the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, because there, as proposed by the President, the first step will be to draw 33 judges, and if they do not accept this proposal, they will go to rest. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u367	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Anna Żukowska, the applicant's representative, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u368	Dear Marshal, High House! We often hear in this House about sovereignty and the rule of law. These words are very often used by Solidarna Polska. So I wanted to remind you what is going on in the European Union, because I feel that Solidarna Poland lives at a time when it was still EEC. The European Union is an economic and political union of democratic European states, which was founded on the basis of a multi-annual process of political, economic and social integration. It is not that the European Union has the right to speak only in economic matters. Art. 2 The Treaty on European Union speaks about the main values of this legal existence, which is the European Union, to which Poland has voluntarily joined. The Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. And that's the part about which there's a dispute going on. Is Poland still a legal state, since it applies such laws as we, the Civic Coalition, the Left presenting the Iustitia project, are trying to repeal? We are trying to amend these provisions in such a way that Poland can finally once again pride itself on the title of a rule of law which respects all principles of the rule of law. One of these principles is judicial independence. That's what we're talking about here, and that's what these projects are all about. Remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u369	The rest of the time will be used by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is important to stress that it is not the European Union that blocks measures, but PiS's past decisions that have destroyed the rule of law. [[Voice from the room: Report, report.]] It is about politicising the National Courts or setting up a Disciplinary Chamber that persecutes judges for their judgments. I would just like to add that it is really incomprehensible to people why the constitutional minister Ziobro, with the approval of the president of the PiS, has so long blocked the access of Poles to hundreds of billions of zlotys by his actions. Ukrainians are dying for this dream of the European Union, and Minister Ziobro goes out in the Seym and criticizes mainly not Russia, not Putin, but the European Union. Today, anyone who speaks like Orbán, Le Pen, Salvini, who criticizes the European Union, simply speaks with Putin's words. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: There is Putin. Bravo!]] You're the same team: anti-EU and proputinist. [[Game in the O.R.]] How much is each of the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber worth? That's a lot of money. The penalty alone is the cost of almost PLN 60 million for one neosbytes. If the KPO funds add up to this, it comes out an astronomical sum of PLN 25 billion for one PiS nominee from an illegal chamber. Your stubbornness to keep these neo-Judges alive is some kind of madness. We agree that today is the time to put an end to conflicts and act together. However, I would like to reiterate that we are submitting to the High House a proposal aimed at ending the destruction of the state and undermining the foundations of the European Union and reversing the effects of these processes. Today Poland has to bet on its relationship with the European Union, it must strengthen its foundations, and PiS must reject all the proputin changes made to the justice system in recent years, which have allowed the Constitution to be broken. And what's most important is that we propose a project that gives us the chance to deal with all these problems with due diligence, but above all with decency. Yeah, 'cause that's the decent word that's crucial today. Because such behaviour is required by Poles today in the face of the enemy's actions. And politicians who today, instead of decency, are looking for this Like you hate, they're just doomed to infamy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u371	Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the total opposition today have made excellent discoveries, showed what they mean. In fact, it is not really about the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, but mostly about blocking the reform of justice at all, in order to restore the former state to question the status of the National Judicial Council. I want to tell you that no European tribunals will write the Polish Constitution. We have clear judgments of the Constitutional Court, which you are questioning, of course, by conducting anti-state activities, because any questioning of the constitutional authority of the state is an anti-state action. If you say Julia Przyłębska's tribunal, if you say: neo-KRS, you undermine the constitutional authorities of the state, you conduct anti-state activities. [[Applause]] This anti-state activity has been carried out since the beginning of the 2015 term of office. But to the point. The judges of the National Judicial Council shall be elected in accordance with the Constitution. You will find no record in the Polish Constitution that would prohibit the Polish Sejm from choosing from the judges submitted to the KRS in a manner consistent with the law. That's what the bill decides. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Sejm elects four members, this is the recipe.]] Mrs. Member! They were elected in accordance with the Constitution and are now also elected in accordance with the Constitution. As to Mrs Joanna Borowiak's question, we are indeed introducing in our draft or even quoting the thesis No 137 of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which states that judges cannot be held liable for the content of decisions delivered, and in Poland this is exactly the case. This is the second part of the answer to the question. They were never drawn for the content of the judgments given, unless the decision was the result of a measure. It's obvious they're responding then. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Not for the sentence, but for the result.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u373	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u374	Minister Ziobro gave a few moments ago - with a passion for himself and a pout - a 20-minute filipica, although it sounded more like a farewell speech or an exposé of an unfulfilled Prime Minister, because there was also Napoleon and Angela Merkel and the Spanish and Putina, but there was nothing about the Clou case, there was nothing about the rule of law, there was nothing about how since 2015. Law and Justice in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra smashed Polish courts, as it led to a disaster, which resulted in the blockade of billions of euros, which belonged to Poles, Portuguese, French and Swedish. Let's say one thing very clearly today. The whole dispute between Poland and the Polish government and the European Union is not even about the Disciplinary Chamber anymore. It is really about who sits in this Disciplinary Chamber. The people who put up the toga, put up the chains and pretended to pass sentences, pretended to be judges. On one scale in the assessment of the PiS or the PiS government, there is an interest of 11 people who have set up judges, make great money, get 40% extra for just sitting in the Disciplinary Chamber - that is, we have 11 judges on the one hand and their interests - and on the other there is the interest of 40 million Poles and billions of euros that have been blocked by the Fund for Reconstruction because the Polish government is running a stupid, hopeless war with the European Union. Law and Justice is trying to convince us all that the European Union has no competence and cannot interfere with justice in any Member State. And of course it's true. The European Union is not involved in the organisation of justice. The European Union does not care whether we have regional, appeal, regional or any other courts in Poland. The European Union has nothing to do with disciplinary action against judges because it is not the Union's competence. But the Union's competence, in accordance with the Treaties, is to ensure that those judges who operate in one arrangement or another can rule without a symbolic gun to their head by the Minister of Justice, can rule autonomously, independently, without any fear that the content of the caselaw will be the subject of disciplinary action. The problem is not the Disciplinary Chamber. The problem is much, much deeper. The problem is really in the nomination proceedings of these judges and in the proceedings before the National Judicial Council. When we joined the European Union, we committed ourselves to upholding fundamental values, and this value is the rule of law and ensuring that judges are given a calm ruling - ruling without pressure, ruling without fear, ruling in accordance with the letter of law and with the letter of the national constitution. Very funny are all these comparisons of gentlemen from Solidarna Polski saying that in Spain it is so, and Poles are discriminated against by the European Commission and the Court of Justice, because there is another measure applied to the Spaniards, and another measure to Poles. Let me remind you that there is a king in Spain, there is no king in Poland. Does this mean that Poles are discriminated against because we don't have a king? After all, these are completely different constitutional systems, completely different legal systems. And please do not lie to Poles that we are somehow treated badly, discriminated against or treated unevenly, because we cannot apply the same measure to 27 different countries which have their legal traditions, legal culture and their constitutional conditions. What you're doing is pure and cheap populism. And if you really think it's possible to apply Swedish to Spanish and Spanish to Polish, then it's not. And we have well-established case law, also in Poland, which is the rule of law. Today, what you have been proposing since 2015 has nothing to do with the rule of law. This is a mama's public opinion and telling her that we're being treated worse. No, we're not being treated worse. We are treated this way because we have committed ourselves to being a good member of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u375	Thank you. Mr Piotr Sak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u376	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From the sound of the appeals, the manifestos I managed to find two questions. Before I go to the answer to these two questions, it is important to stress that today we have been prepared with a solid portion of intelligent dirdimals served by the opposition... [[And which charge was incorrect?]] I'll explain, please be calm. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say. Of course, you can say that. You are right, but only in one case, namely when you say that the Treaties of the European Union are more important than the Constitution. If you come and say yes: for us, the European Treaty is more important than the Constitution, then your views will indeed make sense. But we are Members of the Polish Parliament and we have vowed, referring to the constitution. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And you propose a courtship, a Spanish solution.]] That is why I would ask for more reflection in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me ask you a question. Mr Mularczyk asked about unification. I do not know if you know the main motto of the European Union - united in diversity. The question of proportionality and subsidiarity. Indeed, every member country has the right to shape its justice system and of course there is no pattern like Sevres, where everything will go from a line or from an axe. That's not gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first issue. The second concerns Mrs Wanda Nowicka, who asked about the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you remember, in 2004 or 2005 there were ideas and there were referendums in France, in the Netherlands on the conviction of the primacy of Community law over national laws, on constitutions or on fundamental laws. It didn't get most of it. So there was an idea that the TSUE would be such a vehicle that would expand the case, would grub up and allow for increased powers, the scope of the European Union's interference. That's really how it started to happen. More borders were moved, and Poland is today an experimental ground where these principles are tested on us. After all, ladies and gentlemen, we are lawyers, although sometimes I listen to some of the statements of the opposition Members, it seems to me that some have not finished the law but the left and practice the left-wing rule, but we do know that we are interpreting values. Here are the decisions, ladies and gentlemen, political decisions regarding the need to discipline Poland in order to show, having a vision, an agenda that works well notabene, confirms the jot into jot, that this country does not deserve to be taken into account and has to be criticized and stigmatized. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need more reflection, and I encourage you to do so, and again I ask you to support our project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Where are the answers to our questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u377	Thank you. This statement concludes the discussion. The discussion is closed. The discussions put forward proposals for rejection at first reading of the projects contained in prints 2011, 2049, 2012, 2013 and 2050 respectively. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 25 hours 17 min 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u378	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the finding of a quorum, which is why I very much ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. Thank you. The meeting shall be attended by 433 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Anti-drug Act, - amending the Anti-drugs Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act - Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed as appropriate, 2102, 2103 and 2097. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the release of the illegally detained leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus, Angelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobuta, print No 2116. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the release of the illegally detained leaders of the Union of Poles in Belarus, Angelica Boris and Andrzej Potzobuta (print No 2116). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the release of illegally detained leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus Andzeliki Boris and Andrzej Potzobuta A year has passed since the unlawful arrest of the leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus, Angelika Boris and Andrzej Poczobut. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland solidaritys with the people persecuted by the Belarusian regime, demands their immediate release and respect for the rights of the Polish national minority. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the nations, organizations and governments of the free, democratic world to respond internationally and decisively to the release of the illegally arrested and to stop the actions of the Belarusian regime restricting the free expression of views and cultivating national identity. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland remembers the detained Andżelice Boris and Andrzej Poczbut, expresses respect for their steadfast attitude and does not cease to work towards the release of our compatriots, arrested for Polishness and building strong fraternal ties between Polish societies and free Belarus. Please adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the release of the illegally detained leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus, Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobuta. Formal applications. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we got the best news about the program, which was supposed to be called Polish Load, but became a PiS disorder. Today we received the best news: this program is being rolled up by the government. Let's hear it for reflection, for coming to your senses. What was to be your crown success turned out, unfortunately, to be the biggest tax drama that was introduced in Poland after 1989. I congratulate you on your reflection, and at the same time I urge you to clean up this mess, this mess, which was PiS's disorder, to the end. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Do it all the way to the end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u380	First of all, consider the words, and second of all, this is not a formal proposal. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a 15-minute break so that you can withdraw your application for rejection at first reading of the only project of those five which were submitted to the Marshal's staff, which executes all the rulings of the TSUE, but above all restores the rule of law in Poland. [[Applause]] For so many months, you have been blocking funds from the European Union for many months. You've led to a drop in the value of gold, hyperinflation, the introduction of enormous increases in loan instalments. [[What kind of people are ……]] All because you're guided by fear that you're afraid of a minister who the Prime Minister of his own government called a traitor to the national interest. Today is the time and time to say, "I'm checking." Are you on the side of European values and the rule of law... [[And what are these values?]] ...in the NATO Treaty, will you continue to implement this anti-European scenario? It's rehearsal time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u382	Thank you very much, Madame. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Prime Minister presented a proposal for changes in this famous Polish Łódź. We knew from the beginning that making changes in taxes in this way would have to end in disaster. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I ask for the adjournment of the Polish Parliament until the Prime Minister and the Polish Government present the current economic situation and the situation of the state budget. [[Applause]] Let me just remind you that through economic policy the last 7 years, each of us today, from a baby to a senior, has to pay 40,000. PLN for public debt. We need to introduce tax changes, find out what the current state budget situation really is. We need to discuss how to compensate for losses when it comes to Polish Loads and changes that you want to introduce today. How they will affect local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to supplement the amounts that local governments will lose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u384	Thank you very much, sir. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the law on local government. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1994. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1994? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[My place.]] Then move next door, my fellow Member. Does it work? 454 Members voted. 453 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Municipal Government Act. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2061. We're voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 442 - for, 13 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on ensuring accessibility for people with special needs. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2088-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Robert Gontar to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u385	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the committee on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronics systems, print No 2073. Four amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Joint Committees: Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, together with the Committee on Infrastructure, recommend two amendments. They also recommend rejecting the two amendments to be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u386	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2088. The committees present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete in the Law amending the Article. 1, Article 2, Article 4, Article 5, Art. 8, Art. 9, Art. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 3rd amendment. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article to the amending act. 1a. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 266 - for, 139 - against, 53 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 267 for, 127 against, 64 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2088, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 192 - against, 33 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the development of public electronics systems. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2065-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committees: the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Law on the Principles for the Implementation of European Activities in the Financial Perspective 2021-2027, print No 2022, report - print No 2065-A. The Sejm reviewed the bill yesterday during the second reading. Amendments have been tabled. Today, the joint committees have gathered, examined the amendments and are asking the High Sejm to accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8, and reject amendments 5, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u388	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2065. The Commission also presents the conclusions of minorities, as well as the additional report of amendments on which to vote in the first place. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 5 of the draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2a. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the first amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. Four-four-for-three-against-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 248 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the second minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 243 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the third minority proposal. Who is in favour of the third minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 218 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 4th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 4th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 215 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the third amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 415 - for, 1 - against, 42 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 411 - for, 3 - against, 43 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 184 - for, 245 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 413 - for, no one was against, 43 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 414 - for, no one opposed, 44 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 403 - for, no one was against, 53 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 216 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215-- for, 243-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 224 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2065, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 444 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm adopted a law on the principles for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the Act - Teacher's Charter The additional committee report shall be in print No 2106-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter, prints no. 2099 and 2106. The Commission has examined six amendments tabled at second reading, recommends rejecting all these amendments and asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u390	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2106. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act - Teacher's Charter. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the following Article. 93a. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2, 3, 5 and 6. We are voting on Amendments 1 and 4. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 2, with which Amendment 5 is linked. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 3 and 6. We're voting. Those in favour of Amendments 2 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 223 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the third amendment with which Amendment 6 is combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 226 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2106, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter. We return to the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 2011 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Can we wait a minute? Because there's a problem with the remote vote.]] [[Marshal, he's throwing out the votes.]] I can see that, so I'm waiting. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're reporting a problem, so I'm waiting. [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, give me the results.]] Is everything okay now? [[Voice in the O.R.: Can we do it again?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't finished the vote yet, so there's nothing to repeat. Please vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's because you're reporting that there's a breach in the remote line. There are reports from your club, Member. 449 Members voted. 179 - for, against - 263, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 2012 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 243 for, 211 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the protection of judicial independence and special rules of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 2013 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in order to abolish the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 2049 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 243 for, 210 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Supreme Court. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 2050 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 222 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction (Prints No 2085 and 2102). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Joint Commission: Agriculture and Rural Development and Health in relation to the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Anti-drugs Act, print No 2085. Your Marshal addressed this resolution to the joint committees on 14 March. The joint committees recommended that all amendments be adopted on 23 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u392	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Anti-drugs Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to maintain the existing wording of the paragraph. Article 7 49. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. I suggest we vote on them together. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. Two for, against -445, eight stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 5 for, 442 against, 10 abstentions. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was against - 445, 11 stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the law amending the law on anti-drugs. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2086 and 2103). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and some other laws. Your Marshal addressed this resolution to the Committee on Agriculture on 14 March 2022. On 21 March, the Committee on Agriculture recommended that all 9 amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u394	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 8. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Anti-drugs Act. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 47a and Article 47a 47b. Amendments 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 13 - for, 434 - against, 7 stopped. The Senate's amendments accepted. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Who's against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Nobody was for, 449 against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 5th amendment with which Amendment 9 is combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who is against Amendments 5 and 9? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was in favor, 449 against, holding off on five. The Sejm accepted the Senate's amendments. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the law amending the law on anti-drugs and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and certain other laws (Prints No 2087 and 2097). I ask Mr Janusz Kowalski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws, print No 2087. On 14 March 2022, your Marshal addressed the Senate's resolution on this matter to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. On 23 March, the Extraordinary Commission considered the resolution and asked the High Sejm to reject the resolution of the Senate. I encourage the opposition to reject the Senate resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as we are united in the matter of voting on the Homeland Defense Act, I believe that if we want to have a very modern, modernized Armed Forces... [[Voice from the room: Boo...]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u396	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u397	...we vote in favour of a modern right trade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u398	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate resolution, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 9 February 2022 amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 9 February 2022 amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 236 - for, 211 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. [[Applause]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - Information by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński on the activities carried out by the relevant services in respect of which the law may be infringed, the activities carried out by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism of Łukasz Meiza in the scope of its activities within the framework of VINCI NEOCLIC Sp. o.o., which consisted in offering treatment to severely or incurably ill patients with unconfirmed efficacy, - Information by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of State Activities on the current situation in the energy market, mainly regarding the possibility of the so-called "state activism" in Poland. blackout in winter months, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the planned or implemented strategy of the Council of Ministers in connection with the growing fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus and on the prevention of infections with the new variant COVID-19; - Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 on the point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services - the proposal was renewed by the applicant on 11 January this year. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the request for information on the activities carried out by the relevant services in relation to the activities undertaken by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism of Łukasz Mesza in respect of its activities within the framework of VINCI NEOCLIC Sp. z o.o. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 233 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Shame, shame, shame!]] We are voting on the proposal for information on the current situation in the energy market. Who among you and your fellow Members is accepting this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 222 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information on the planned or implemented strategy of the Council of Ministers in connection with the growing fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus and the prevention of infections with the new option of COVID-19. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 for, 243 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the same proposals for supplementing the agenda by the following item: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, tabled by the Parliamentary Circle Polska 2050. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these proposals will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? This isn't over yet, I'm asking you to stay, I'm asking you not to leave the room. Just a minute. 451 Members voted. 219-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws, print No 2117. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. This is the end of votes. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 43 hours 18 min 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u399	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws (Prints No. 2096 and 2117). I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws, print no. 2096. The bill entered the Marshals of the Sejm on 22 March and on the same day was addressed to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. At its meeting today, 24 March, the Commission considered this government submission contained in 36 articles. During the meeting, a request was submitted for a public hearing which was not accepted by the committee. 11 amendments were also tabled, 9 of which received a favourable opinion. The substantive, consistent work of the committee should be emphasised. The proposed provisions of the draft law and amendments were accepted by almost all members of the committee, which was confirmed by the vote on the whole of the proposal. 35 members of the committee voted in favour of the bill as a whole with only one abstention. The committee therefore asks: The High Sejm is to approve the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u401	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u402	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! First of all, I think we can all be on behalf of the students, and all the members of the education system, really thank you that this project is that it got here so quickly after a difficult COVID time and before it was yet to be maybe more difficult sometimes, which has to do with receiving children of Ukrainian refugees. So that the project is very good, certainly very useful. As the Minister herself noted at the committee meeting, this project consists of two main components. One is to regulate all the exams, the exams, the eighth grade exams, that is to say, the transfer to the law of regulations that functioned during this difficult time, ordering and closing everything that functioned in exceptional mode. This had to happen so that the law could just be good, so that we all understand it, it actually found this understanding with all the members of the committee. This is an extremely important matter. Some issues have been simplified in terms of Matura and eighth graders, some deadlines have been moved so that they can find themselves at this difficult time after the pandemic. It's very important. The second component, as Minister Marzena Machalek has expressed, is the definition of employment standards for professionals in kindergartens and schools. This is a subject, an issue that has actually independently accompanied the work of the Education Committee for years. The Pandemic, of course, has unfortunately deepened this problem and highlighted the needs even more and has accelerated certain issues, I think that's what needs to be said. On the other hand, there is a need for more of these specialists to be clearly described, readable, standardised, and have existed for years. Such a request was made by both teachers and specialists themselves, special educators, and of course parents representing their children. After this difficult time, after 2 years of pandemic, it is actually an extremely important and important issue, and certainly such solutions will also be useful in the time ahead. So that these are the two important issues that this project contains, but perhaps the most important issue, for which the Minister particularly thank you, and what I congratulate you on, is the fact that almost PLN 520 million from the reserve is allocated to these problems related to the second component. Of course, the Law and Justice Club recommends further work on this project. We support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u403	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Unfortunately, I have to say first that I have the impression that you have the nature of a scorpion, that the PiS has the nature of a scorpion. It is a good project and, moreover, very urgent, because there are solutions for exams which are urgent as well as remote education and, above all, psychological and pedagogical assistance. But you wouldn't be yourself if you didn't put two cuckoo balls in it. One from the beginning was in the project, the other appeared today. One thing is that Minister Czarnek gives himself the right to be able to establish an advisory group. Following recent experience on refugee education advisory gremia We know more or less how these sounds are supposed to look. There is to be 29 representatives of the PiS and although their work is supposed to be about education of Ukrainians, there is no Ukrainian embassy, no Ukrainians, no one on migration issues, no specialist on education of foreigners. There are PiS activists themselves: either in the form of MEPs or in the form of senators or in the form of local activists. And that's what this advisory body looks like. There is also a record that you can also hire experts without any competitions, without accepting any criterion and simply pay them. This is the first cuckoo egg. The second cuckoo egg This is a matter of the fact that suddenly Minister Czarnek decided to become a great builder and will be able to make investments. It will not be government investment, it will not local government investment, it will be Minister Czarnek's investment. We are, of course, making amendments that abolish these records, these two cuckoo eggs, as well as an amendment that extends certain deadlines for the functioning, the appointment of school heads. On the other hand, as regards the matter of the law itself, apart from these two elements, which are clearly critically assessed by us, it covers issues related to psychological and pedagogical care of children, i.e. that there should be more psychologists, educators, special educators in schools. It's very necessary. We know a report from no one who hasn't left any illusions that this isn't enough and that this help is needed. Especially after the pandemic, after the time of remote education, when we know, the analysis indicates that as normally 9 to 10% children in every population need psychological help, so now this number has increased to 20%, this factor has increased to 20%. This is therefore very necessary and urgent. It's a good thing there's more money for that. The second element is the issue of exams, but not only because there is the issue of exam solutions, the eighth grade exam, which is putting off, actually eliminating this additional exam in time after the pandemic and ultimately. There are also solutions related to the prom exam, change of dates. These are the things that need to be done in connection with the effects of remote education during the pandemic. There are also other arrangements to change certain deadlines, to postpone certain requirements, e.g. local requirements for pre-school education. This is also a solution at the moment, not only because of the pandemic, but because of the refugee crisis. It is a law which, on the one hand, contains good things, and on the other, it is urgent and could be adopted very quickly, actually without Senate amendments. She's gonna need these amendments because those two cuckoo eggs were planted there. The point is that the Minister couldn't stop himself from gathering a bunch of his experts - we saw what these experts looked like, for example. from textbooks or from writing the software base of HIT, and half of the PiS activists - and want to pay them. The point is also that he decided, probably for election purposes, as you can guess, to suddenly become an investor. There's government programs, there's government programs, but we'll still have Minister Czarnek's programs. It is a pity, because sometimes there are projects that we could really agree on quickly and in agreement. It is a pity, because the Senate has recently confirmed several times that there are projects that have returned without amendments to be adopted quickly. We appealed and we appealed further. Take the vote when there is a third reading, the amendments that we have tabled, and there will be a chance that this project will come out faster. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u405	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If it is. High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Left Member's Club on the draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws, print no. 2026. Before I go to the substance of the bill, I would like to express our great amazement and disapproval of the imposed Members and Members by the ruling party of the mode and working time on this project. A project of nearly 500 pages went to the Sejm two days ago, tonight. His first reading was held this morning at the school board meeting, and now the second one is being held. This made it impossible for Members to consult the project with those who will perform these records, namely the educational community, which in this case has 2 407 138 people - teachers, heads of educational institutions and graduates of the 8th grade of primary and secondary schools from the years concerned. This mode is all the more curiosity that the project was created a year ago and was consulted with the social side. This consultation was concluded in July last year. At the end of July, the joint government and local government committee issued a positive opinion on this project. Then he was down for nine months. It goes to the Sejm and it turns out that Members cannot work on it for more than one day. For a project in which quite mysteriously and somewhat disturbingly the concept of discipline in school, it is imposed in a completely undisciplined way, simply messy. The proposal introduces a number of changes that are right and expected. Especially valuable are those concerning the request also made by the Left Club, made by the social side. It is about increasing the cast, the number of so-called. special jobs in schools, here also there are kindergartens, very well, i.e. psychologists, speech counselors, neurologopedians, educators and special educators. The project involves doubling the number of these posts and introducing funding for these posts. It raises concerns that this funding of PLN 0.5 billion is secured only for the current year. The question remains, therefore, whether this funding will be transferred to local governments in the following years without securing resources. Today, too, at a committee meeting, a representative of small rural schools run by associations pointed out that these entities could run out of funds to finance this project, but the fact that they have additional jobs is extremely appropriate. It is about the psychophysical condition of children and young people in Poland. All studies show this, also a very large study carried out by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the largest in the last two decades, that young people are not only at risk of depression and mental disorders. This support, this support at an early stage, very well that also preschool, is extremely intentional. The project also covers the organisation of the 8th grade and prom exams in the following 2 school years, i.e. until 2024. It concerns yearbooks for which education has taken place during epidemics, remote learning to a large extent. That, of course, does not raise objections. Shortening the time limits for recruitment activities, conducting recruitment by electronic communication. There have been proposals that I presented today to the local authorities at the committee's meeting so that it is already electronic communication, the IT system. The Ministry said today that this will be the end of the day, permanently. It is also very useful to change, which includes kindergartens, which are not part of schools, i.e. self-schools, the possibility of government programmes, financial support. It was also a postulate, which was repeatedly a postulate of the Left Club. Announcement in this project that this year and in the following years students, graduates of the eighth grade of primary school will not pass the exam from an additional subject, is useful in this situation. But why is that two months before this exam? I'm going back to the mode and time of this project. On the other hand, the fundamental doubts in this project are raised today by the sudden amendment - along with the nine amendments made to the PiS club in such a mode (the bell) that there was no time to read them - concerning the possibility for the Minister of Education to conduct educational investments personally. We're making an amendment to get it out of this project. It can also be seen that the Lifelong Programme Obviously troubles, the districts give up its introduction. The project introduces the possibility of searching for developers in non-public entities. Despite these reservations, the Left Messenger Club will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u407	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill finally regulates the issue of exams. We believe that changes in exams are beneficial for both students and teachers. The deadline for conducting the eighth grade exam will be postponed permanently from April to May, and we also assess it as a positive action. But no matter what, we think it is worth to put ourselves in the situation of the students who have waited until today to learn about when and under what conditions they will be able to take the most important exams in their current life. To be honest, if I were a minister in this area, I would make sure that this certainty was much earlier, even though some of the information was given earlier. With regard to the psychological condition of pupils after the pandemic, he forces radical steps to be taken. Specialists have been missing for a long time. More specialists will be, this is necessary. I just hope the specialists find themselves and want to work in schools. As regards the subsidy of these specialists, there was an announcement at the committee's meeting about the allocation of subsidies. The details are to be included in the regulation, the consultation is to be carried out earlier, this is to be discussed with the local government, but it is worth paying attention to the voice of your representative of the Polish Districts Association, who presented the opinion of the PPP this morning and pointed out this promise that between the first and second reading there will be a discussion with local authorities. I think it's important. not only from the point of view of local government, but also from the point of view of entrepreneurs, non-governmental organisations that run a lot of institutions and do it brilliantly. I believe that, during such consultations, they would make a great deal of important comments to our parliamentary debate. Some facilities will have a short period of time to acquire these specialists. Especially difficult situation, I think, is in front of facilities from smaller towns, where few people will want to commute and work. Unfortunately, this is a sad reality. It wasn't without controversy. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility for the Minister of Education and Science to appoint advisory teams or experts to prepare expert opinions for the purpose of the Minister. The proposal also proposes to require a positive opinion of the school curator as a condition for the inclusion of a non-public training centre or a non-public vocational training centre in the register kept by a local authority unit. And, of course, the Minister's investment programme. It is worth remembering that the existing rules guarantee the Minister such powers, but they are subject to transparent procedures. Clearly, the record goes here in the direction of the Minister's creation of powers that will allow him to distribute money in a discretionary manner. These are our basic remarks. Thank you for working with me. There is a need to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u409	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, we do not see the need to support this law. What would this necessity have to do? Secondly, I wanted to point out that the devil is in the details. And how do you talk about details when you get a bill a day and a half before you vote on it and you have to discuss it? Thirdly, I would like to point out, as already mentioned in the details, that there is not necessarily a choice between the exam and the absence of the exam. It can be an easy, medium difficult, medium easy, etc., it is graduated. If we say there won't be an exam, the young people will just ignore it. On the other hand, if the exam is perhaps easier than normal, then she will learn a little. I wanted to say, by the way, that we are different - in this left hand of all who sit on both sides of the room - about what education is for. Well, education is to serve out bad students, so that as few people as possible can get diplomas, so that the good ones can be distinguished from the bad ones. It's not about giving everyone diplomas. Poland is not supposed to be a country of people going to school and getting diplomas for the same thing. Only school is meant to educate and separate people. But, of course, parents may have different opinions about this. We would like to remind you that the Confederation is a supporter of the educational voucher, that is, the principle that the money that the Minister has at the moment at the cashier's office is divided into N, i.e. the number of children, we hand over to parents and parents just pay what school they want, and that's why we don't have this problem. Because socialism, as you know, is a system in which you heroically overcome difficulties unknown in any other system. There is no problem with restaurants, because there is no ministry of national apology and thanks to it there is no problem, actually these restaurants make sure that the food is good, cheap, expensive, as anyone would like. And so should schools, of course. There's no reason for you to consider yourself the owners of our children. I had the pleasure of attending a round table to take care of the children. The meeting was called by the Prime Minister, and there were probably 200 people sitting there - full of enthusiasm, who wanted the best, and each had a brilliant idea of how to educate children. Each one's different. But none of these people, except us, of course, were in favour of letting their parents decide. Everyone thought that she, this person, should determine how other people's children should learn. Of course, we do not accept such a position. Children are your parents, not yours, and it's not yours to decide what children learn, it's yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u411	Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u412	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Education is about giving children the basis for a better adult life. Wisdom does not come alone, and in some cases it does not even come with age. Poland 2050, like the other groups, sees the need to sort out cases that concern the upcoming exams. The events of the last 2 years, in particular the question of pandemics, actually make it necessary to adapt the system to the new situation. That is why we welcome this bill with appreciation. Its very important element is also the announcement of creating additional support posts in schools for educators, for psychologists. This is very good, very necessary, this need has been expressed repeatedly in this room. A great deal of respect that this need will finally be realized. While I saw an increase in funding associated with this increase in jobs in the impact assessment of the regulation, I lack the results of consultation with local authorities. Will local governments be able to bear these expenses? I hope this is still ahead of us. What raises our doubts? Lowering the requirements for exams and exams for eighth graders. In the case of eighth grade examinations, there is a change in the fourth compulsory subject. On the other hand, the percentage threshold remains unchanged during the Matura exams, but in some ways the standards of the Matura qualification are reduced at an extended level. These changes are made very quickly and relate to those exams that are about to come. Given the level of stress that my son Janek experienced, this year's senior, every change made in such a mode is, or at least can be controversial. We also share the concern of many Members on the issue of expert teams. There is a need for transparent rules for the selection of such experts, transparent rules for their financing. Above all, the need for support in areas that can only become problematic, from support for our Ukrainian guests, to later problems related to new technologies, future professions, group work, cooperation in projects, etc. In general, of course, we will be working on this bill. It has a very positive tone, and we share the reservations that have already been expressed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u413	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. If the Member is not here, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since yesterday, the Polish school has solved the math problem: If the teacher gets a 4.4-percent increase and inflation is 10% So how much will the teacher's salary increase? From today, the Polish school answers the question: Why did the draft law on the education system - 478 pages - 9 months lie in the ministry and the Sejm has 2 days to analyze these records? [[Applause]] Today the media are hinting that Mr Czarnek and some of the parliamentarians of the PiS, instead of supporting the Polish school in the fight against the consequences of the crimes of the Putin regime in Ukraine, is intensively working like a horse uphill to prepare a wick called Zelex Czarnek II. Therefore, I have this question: Why do you, Minister Czarnek and his party colleagues, represented here by eight Members, instead of helping schools to work for Ukrainian refugees, devote their time mainly to the design of a model of decision-making on knowledge and morality in the world (the bell) in Polish schools by the Minister and his party officers? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u415	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The mental condition of Polish children is very bad, and the war behind copper will not improve it with certainty. So psychological help is very much needed. Question one: Have you carried out studies that the labour market is able to provide an adequate number of psychologists? Because my knowledge is completely different. Psychologist is the most sought-after profession in the labour market at the moment. So, with the money you're offering, there's no way the psychologists are gonna find it. And here I have the second question, because this role will certainly be played by educators, who are much more, but their tasks at school are completely different. Was the question of increasing or revalorizing allowances for the role of class educator not considered, and why? As we have said, many people have raised this issue in committee. It is the teacher closest to the child (the bell) who can help him most. However, this parenting allowance was granted at a small amount in 2018, so at the moment it is actually no money. Please respond in writing on both points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u417	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Appreciating the contribution of the work you have put in, and your personal commitment, because we have a comparison that unlike your colleagues in the Ministry, you are actually working and leaning on the problems of the school, but there is some regret that you have allowed for a good project of the school needed, ordering the issues of exams, making it easier for children and young people to prepare for exams or eighth graders, or insert this issue with Minister Czarnek and his consultative councils. This really isn't necessary for school. You have to be a little serious. And it's really worth it, because the Polish school really deserves good solutions. We have great teachers, very talented young people, major psychological crises, also caused by pandemics. Now many more kids from Ukraine will join our schools. We will be facing new challenges and really doing additional advice (the bell), where experts will be able to get paid because they are friends of Minister Czarnek, is completely unnecessary and extends the legislative process, not worth it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u419	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u420	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Members! Even a decent bill, you're capable of spoiling it and leaving it tasteless. You're trying to legalize one of the articles to spend public money on party experts so that they give you the expertise you need, the expertise you like. I know that this article is the result of our parliamentary review at the Ministry when we were checking with the messengers a report that was actually a review of textbooks. I took the liberty of reviewing 137 pages of civil contracts for this report before reading the second one. And from them I read that Mr.Bogusław Dopart got 10 450 PLN, Mr.Michał Gołębiowski (Dzwonek) got 12 450 PLN. I'm not gonna read them all anymore, because it's a lot of deals. But if you're saving yourselves with this kind of slap now, on what basis did you spend public money that could actually be spent on education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u421	Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. How is it that Minister Czarnek is so efficient in putting into the bill the laws that guarantee him money for special funds with which he will be able to go to local governments, to non-governmental organizations he will wish to invest, and is so inefficient in arranging money for teachers. Why the teacher's raise is 4.4% where the average wage increase from December 2020 to December 2021 in the economy was 11.6% And the teachers at that time had 0%. And what will you do if the limits you set for the employment of educators and psychologists are simply empty limits, because there will be no teachers who want to work in schools for this lousy amount of money? I think we need to set limits, we need to guarantee that there are enough educators and psychologists at school...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u423	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u424	But the other side of this equation: there has to be money for their wages, and unfortunately that's not there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u425	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u426	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! This bill is part of a bag or a Black suitcase. We had lex Czarnek, now it's lex Czarnek 2 or lex Czarnek bis. Specially spent money on a special investment fund. I wanted to ask: What will be the criteria, how much will this money be, will you update the budget? My colleagues in this room say that you've cut the teacher's raise very modestly. And here's a suitcase for Black. He's gonna drive, he's gonna deal. He's gonna give out no criteria, and he's gonna give out his own. We can't agree to that. Please answer why you are doing this; please answer why and when there will be an amendment. Finally, how much money did you spend in this suitcase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u427	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, Indeed, the psychophysical condition of children and young people in Poland requires urgent intervention. This law partially responds to these expectations, namely by increasing the employment of specialists in primary schools and kindergartens. The second area of concern is the health status of Polish children and young people, especially the increasing number of people who suffer from childhood diabetes, which is also the result of obesity among children and young people. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister whether there are certain programmes in the area of healthy nutrition to increase the physical activity of children and young people by changing the course of physical education tailored to the needs of children with obesity (the bell) and the organisation of after-school activities in agreement with the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u429	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u430	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank you for the amendment of this law, the Teacher's Charter, and additional funds for increases in salaries for teachers in the amount of PLN 1670 million. I also wanted to thank the entire teaching group, which behaves wonderfully in the situation. online, activities that take place in a remote system. I would also like to thank you for this work, which is related to the reception of refugees and the implementation in this area of all the instruments that are intended to help educate children from Ukraine. As we know, Minister Czarnek, Prof. Czarnek pointed out, he also spoke about subsidies, that if it were children and young people who would be assigned to school classes, it would be one to one, and it would be 40%. more if special adoption centres are created. I still wanted to ask the Minister, if I may, about the resources for the children with Asperger's syndrome and the autism syndrome. I am in contact with the National Society of Autism Branch in Kielce and I was pointed out that there is a very low contract in support of children with autism syndrome and Asperger syndrome. Could I get an answer to that question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u431	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! We listen here, you can say, ritual charges made by the opposition against this bill. This is always happening, and we are not surprised by it, but one thing that surprised me after all is the accusation that it will be Minister Czarnek who thanks to this project could support educational investment. It seems to me that this is due to the fact that the Platform has finally seen how much money in the times of the rule of law and justice is directed to education, how much investment is being made, and you think that more investment is no longer needed. I think this assessment of yours is a little over the top. There is still a need for educational investment, and what you are saying today at the committee meeting and in the plenary room is one thing: you have completely (the bell) drifted away from reality. Find one self-governmentman, one parent, one teacher who wouldn't want the Ministry of Education to support educational investment. Really think about what you're saying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u433	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u434	Dear Marshal! High Seym! 2021 - 1491 suicide attempts among children, 127 deaths. That's a 77% increase. We know that the pandemic increases these problems, the mental state, the resilience of children and young people. The amount of PLN 512 million is important to help those most in need of assistance, especially in these first moments. Therefore, teachers of educators, special educators, psychologists, pedagogical therapists, speech counselors, the whole group deserves support and it is absolutely a very positive action that we all finally see the problem to prevent all these tragedies. Once again, we call on the government to increase teachers' wages not by 4.4%. But that's 10%... [[We'll increase it.]] ...because it is precisely that a teacher armed with competence should (the bell) respond to all these things resulting from the mental and psychological problems of young people and help them. Therefore, let us help teachers also by raising salaries this year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address, using the formula of questions, what constitutes 3/4 of the project presented, namely the draft regulations of the Minister on the examination requirements for the exam and the eighth grade exam of individual subjects. In the case of a modern foreign language, it is established there in the case of an eighth grade exam at level A2. This is the basic level. Then the Matura - I'm already shortening - at the basic level is also to be passed at level A2. The A2 level is reached within a year of study, a maximum of 1.5 years, while, as we know, this modern language, if it is English, is most often learned since kindergarten, since primary school, 8 years, then 4 years, or 12 years. Of course there are schools, there are teachers, where (The bell) this science is effective and goes to B2 or C1 after 2, 3 years of learning, while the system does not support it. Something's got to be done about it. Today, there is no time for this, but it cannot be that the Polish school, as well as the state budget, are actually wasting money on learning modern languages, creating a system that does not motivate, but makes this science more motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u437	Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u438	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Aren't you ashamed that such a law, 500 pages of detailed solutions, regulations, justifications, we have to rewrite as a Sejm in 48 hours? [[You don't have to rewrite it, you have to read it.]] This is not disregard for parliamentarians, but this is disregard for the students above all, that is disregard for teachers, that is disregard for parents. You've already hurt our children very much. Today you're trying to experiment on them again. You're changing the date of the eighth grade exam. What about the kids who have Asperger's syndrome, what about the kids with dyslexia, dysortography? What kind of support do you have for our children? Your boss only handled the virtues of the women instead of the public consultation. Did you talk about this project with local government officials, the Polish Districts Association, the Polish Towns Association (the bell), the Polish Municipal Union? You didn't talk. You didn't talk to your parents either, you didn't talk to us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] My child is still the subject of your experiments. We've had enough of this. Come on, kids, let them study. They spent more time on-line in the last two years than in schools than in classrooms. Take it all into account. I don't know if you have kids in seventh or eighth grade right now. Minister, Minister, do you or do you not? I don't think you do. That's why you experiment so easily. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u439	Thank you very much. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Tomasz... Excuse me, I'd like to invite Minister Marzena Machalek. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I am very happy to answer all the questions, even those that actually prove it, and I am sorry that some of you do not know that this law has 42 pages and most of these entries, 90% have been consulted for a year. But it's just an explanation to make it sound like it. I would also like to address you, Mr President, if you could listen to me. [[Mr President, listen to me.]] You spoke to me, I spoke to you. I was listening. I think it's worth not only talking, but also listening to the answers, because I think that's what parliamentarianism is for. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna start over, one more time. I said this at the committee meeting very clearly that this law consists of a component. This is the main component on which the joint committee of the government and the local government examined in all consultations. It's about eighth grade exams, prom exams. Attention, the provisions of this Act concern exams in 2023, while those exams, which are this year, were announced in the Regulation in August 2021, countries. It would be worth knowing how you ask on behalf of the children, because your children who pass exams know it. So much for that. It's not worth asking questions without knowing the substance of the presentation. On the other hand, I understand the questions concerning the second part: Why is it accepted in such a way? Therefore, I am very patiently explaining that there is a project to support children, students and families. This is a project that was created on the basis of the work developed by the expert team, which was established in 2017, the project was widely consulted. Under the influence of your comments, parliamentarians of both the governing coalition and the opposition, we do not want to force and quickly introduce this project. Its assumptions have been published on our websites for at least a year. On the other hand, since we have pandemic time, additionally wartime in Ukraine, it is very important that the planned money, PLN 700 million, is additionally transferred to schools both to finance the hours of psychological and pedagogical classes, as well as the appointments of psychologists, educators, special educators, speech counselors. We have therefore decided not to translate this issue into next year, but to join this law. On the other hand, the issue of a specific mechanism - because it is a question about local governments - will be regulated in a regulation that will deal with the principles of detailed distribution. PLN 180 million has already been transferred through a detailed regulation to local governments and schools since 1 March, while PLN 520 million, please, will be transferred from 1 September, as we will adopt this law, after a detailed regulation has been issued. Today we set these minimum standards for the employment of specialists in schools. Very important. All those who have worked on this - but I have already had a lot of comments and a lot of consultation on this subject in working with parliamentarians, with messengers, with Members - thank you very much for this constructive work. I understand that some political things need to sound, but from the point of view of our children, it is crucial that since September 1st, there are additional specialists in the school. So, to the question that we have here, whether it's enough, I'm going to say that when it comes to the research that we have on this subject, it's to meet the standards from September 1st... It is worth to say that today we have - the least is in kindergartens, but there are - 21 thousand. specialists in public schools. Since September 1, we want to increase this number from 21,000. Up to 38,000. From the point of view of existing specialists today, in our opinion, this will not be a problem. In addition, I wanted to tell you that we are launching additional postgraduate studies from 1 October, four semesters in early support of child development, child support and family support. There are also post-graduate studies for primary school teachers (Dzinek), in terms of working with students with different educational needs, as well as in the methodology of helping children with communication problems and in the direction of: family advisor. It is simultaneously linked to the Law on the support of the student, the child and the family. We're also launching an implementation program. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of questions. I, if your marshal may, would like to address the issue of experts and what you have been very critical of. These are regulations that already exist in the part of higher education. We are simply harmonising these provisions and giving the opportunity to hire experts. They will be financed from the part at the disposal of the Minister of Education. There will be no remuneration for being an expert, just for expertise and specific work. I must go along with this and I think that this may sound ironically to you - a great builder, but I will be pleased if it turns out that thanks to the investment programme, which is the idea of the management of the Ministry, Minister Czarnek, we will be able to fund education and investment in a determined way. There were a lot of questions about why this mode - I think I explained it. The section on standards is added. These standards and the way in which they are divided will be governed by the Regulation. There are very important questions, what about children who have decisions about special educational needs, about children, for example. with autism. This is a 9,5 times higher subsidy. If I remember correctly, it's about 50,000. more per child per year. It is enough or not - it is still a very large subsidy. As regards children with special needs, some are highly functioning, others are functioning below, and therefore a functional assessment of the child will be introduced in the Student, Child and Family Support Act and, on the basis of this, will be financed by needs, they will be properly defined and financial security, so that the money for support, rehabilitation, for the child's needs are properly directed and effective. We are very interested in early support, hence professionals in kindergartens, hence the Life Programme. He's a very successful program. It's never been on this scale to help a child since the first weeks of his life. However, there are such districts, there is a small scale of them, probably less than 10%. which did not set up leading coordination and rehabilitation centres, but if there are well-functioning centres in these districts run by foundations or NGOs, the county and psychological and pedagogical counseling will be able to organize, manage the centre to entrust these organizations. This is the opposite, it is not the limitation of any action, and the essence of this law is in fact the support of the student, the child and the family and the transfer to the level of the law of requirements and method of conducting exams in 2023. Thank you very much to all those who worked effectively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u441	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 51st meeting. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I'm closing the list. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, will make his first statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych launched a hotline in Polish and Ukrainian languages on family benefits for Ukrainian citizens who, fleeing from the war, came to Poland. Polish and Ukrainian helpline consultants provide information, among others. about where and under what conditions refugees can obtain assistance and what family benefits they can receive, how to fill in and send a request, how to register a profile on an electronic service portal. As usual, ZUS employees stood at the level of the task, who, in connection with the events in Ukraine, organized a collection of the most necessary things for Ukrainian citizens and handed them over to the Polish Red Cross. ZUS would not, however, be a ZUS, and the Polish right-wing government would not be a Polish right-wing government if there were no honey in this barrel. It's almost as big a barrel as that, kiddo. Because the helpline for Ukrainian citizens in the ZUS is a payline on the same terms as commercial companies organize paid infolines for their commercial products. However, for every refugee, every hryvnia and every zloty that can be used to communicate with loved ones left in Ukraine, instead of a paid queue waiting in a paid state hotline. I would like to ask the president of the Social Security Office and the Prime Minister whether in the infinite amounts of money printed by the National Bank of Poland and devoted to propaganda of success really lacked money for free helpline for the victims of the world's bloodiest war in the 21st century. I hope it's just an accident at work of some decency-free official, not a desire to earn or refund the costs of a state social assistance institution or a right-wing government. I ask the President of the Social Insurance Institution and the Prime Minister to reflect and change the policy on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u443	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u444	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Another anniversary has passed, eluded by modern events. It is assumed that on 16 February 1941, the Polish legendary military formation of the silent ones was established. The word formation is not very happy to reflect the character of this group. They were not a compact formation or a military unit, they did not have colors, banner or patron, nor did they refer to the tradition of any previously existing military unit. Their work from the standpoint of the way of war at that time was completely new. Silent soldiers were recruited voluntarily. Their work was closely linked to the work of the new Division VI of the Chief of Staff, appointed to cooperate with the British Special Forces Operations Manager. They were trained in over 30 specialties, depending on future tasks. Special emphasis was placed on sabotage, diversion and intelligence. It was also important to communicate and, what is very important, to shape leadership and staff skills. After extremely difficult training, which only a few completed, 316 soldiers were sent to the country. The oldest was 54 years old, the youngest 17 years old. Women were also recruited. They died under different circumstances of 102 silent ones. One of them was Adam Trypus. He was born in Podkarpacie, but the Second World War and years after that he spent on piotrkowska land. He graduated from classical philology at the Jagiellonian University. He was a reserve officer. In the September campaign he led a platoon in the 2nd regiment of Podhale shooters. After September's defeat, he passed through Hungary and Romania to France and later to Great Britain. After training in October 1942, he was transferred to the country. This is where he commanded Kedyw in the National Army's Piotrków inspector. He was preparing an action on the Storm. When the National Army was disbanded, it continued to function in conspiracy without deciding to reveal itself. In June 1945, he carried out a bravado-action of underground soldiers from the communist prison in Pabianice. After talking to Prime Minister Edward Osoczka-Morawski, he reveals the structure of his subordinates, trusting the assurances of communist criminals. Soon after that, he has to escape. Arrested and accused in 1951, sentenced to 15 years, was imprisoned in Łódź and Wronki. He was released in 1955, and two years later he was rehabilitated. He started working as a teacher. He worked until 1970 when he was forced to retire. On 13 December 1981, he was detained by the Security Service despite severe illness. The shock caused by interrogations accelerates Mr. Adam's death. He died on 4 July 1982 in Piotrków and was buried there. It has been written about the silent many books--that it is a sign of the silent ones that the dark ones... that the dear of the meek ones. We have to remember them. They bore witness to patriotism and love for their homeland. They were an elite. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the issue of limited availability of patients to primary healthcare professionals. The subject addressed consistently to my parliamentary office, which is one of the most important but also addressed in numerous telephone interventions, meetings and on-calls, is the issue of the lack of availability of patients to primary healthcare doctors in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. In the letter I received from a citizen of the county in Wielkopolska, I was informed about the prevention by medical staff of the public clinic of making a health balance of a ten-year-old because of the lack of vaccination against COVID-19. This was argued by the concern for the infection of healthy children. Otherwise, due to the urgent need to visit a family doctor, a paid test for COVID-19 had to be done or to a private doctor. The worrying thing is that some of the medical facilities that closed down during the first wave of pandemics did not return to the so-called. normality despite population vaccination, which started with group 0, i.e. medical personnel. It's been two years since the start of the pandemic, and these facilities are still too fast. This time is sometimes sufficient for primary health care institutions to adapt to work under pandemic conditions. Such a limitation or temporary suspension of the provision of benefits by healthcare providers causes the queues to continue to extend to public specialist clinics, in which it is necessary to wait for several months to a few years. The alternative is only to visit doctors in more expensive private clinics. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Health and to the National Health Fund: since the Minister of Health has stated that the obligation to wear masks in public space will be abolished from Monday, it is time to take off quickly in public health clinics and normally receive patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On 6 March, we celebrated the European Day of Remembrance for the Righteous. This celebration was established on 10 May 2012 by the European Parliament, at the initiative of the Italian Committee of the World Fair Gardens - Garivo, and aims to honour the memory of those who opposed totalitarian regimes and mass crimes in the 20th and 21st centuries. It is primarily aimed at education, promoting opposition to regimes and helping people who are being harassed. Where's the date coming from? March 6 marks the anniversary of the death of Moshe Bejski, the initiator of the garden of righteousness in Jerusalem, and the co-creator of the definition: the Righteous Among the Nations. This organization calls for the creation of World-wide Gardens of Righteousness like gardens in Yad Vashem, Jerusalem, where the people who saved the Jews during the Holocaust are honored. As part of the celebration of the day at the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, exhibitions commemorating the Polish Righteous Among the Nations are organized as a unique group against the background of the European nations, because they were the most numerous collectiveity, and because Poles were threatened with death penalty for helping Jews. Let me remind you that the orders of the occupation authorities, in particular the General Regulation of Governor Hans Frank of 15 October 1941, provided for the death penalty for every Pole who sheltered a Jew or helped him in any other way. In practice, the range of punishments applied to those helping the Jews was wide. He covered a fine, confiscation of property, battery, imprisonment, sent to a concentration camp and death penalty. In view of the occupation principle of collective responsibility, local communities were the victims of repression. The number of Poles lost by the Germans for helping Jews has not yet been precisely determined. The most cautious estimate is a few hundred people murdered. By 1 January 2019 the number of Poles awarded with the Righteous Medal among the Nations was 6992. The European Parliament has taken the initiative to honor the memory of those who opposed totalitarian regimes and mass crimes in the 20th and 21st centuries, so that the concept of the Righteous Among the Nations regarding people helping Jews during the Holocaust extend to the whole world and to other such phenomena, especially genocide. How important is the European Day of Remembrance for the Righteous, we see today. Today we are witnessing Russia's aggression. Assaulting Ukraine becomes a genocide. All those who are helping Ukraine today are just. I appeal to everyone: let's do everything we can to end the war in Ukraine. Let's stop Russia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u449	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u450	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, 45 employees of the Russian Federation embassy were expelled from Poland called spies pretending to be diplomats. One was also detained, literally: one, employee of the Warsaw Town Hall - notabene employed at the time of the presidency of Lech Kaczyński - who has been giving information to the Russian side for 19 years. Where are the others? After I asked why it was so late, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Prime Minister hid their head in the sand. It is said that you were the first to warn the world about the dangers of Putin, but the truth is that you react very gently, only at the time of the attack, when you are surprised by the heroism and perseverance of the Ukrainian people in the fight against the aggressor. Last November, Prime Minister Morawiecki was warned by Americans about Russia's intentions. What were you two busy with? Introducing restrictions on media freedom, like Putin's. You've been investigating lex TVN. Or did you not believe Biden's administration? After all, you and Putin supported Donald Trump, and the choices Trump lost, you called them fakes. The Karnowski brothers, today rightly called the Kremlin brothers, your pets, according to Dworczyk's e-mails, advised the Prime Minister how to effectively sting sexual minorities. Today, they are engaged in the unpunished spread of Russian propaganda. Your closest friend Viktor Orbán announces a veto for sanctions imposed on Russia and blocks the delivery of assistance to Ukraine on Putin's orders. You are outraged that the Moscow police are attacking a 12-year-old girl who is asking about the war in Ukraine, and your police are harassing teenagers for posts related to the Women's Strike shortly after she was gassing and even stopping opposition Members on Polish streets. It would seem that war is changing everything that you've gone to your senses, but it's a burning hope. The way you realized very good in planning to go to Kiev shows that your Eastern mentality is doing great. You went there in the company of the Prime Minister of Slovenia, called small Orbán or mini-Trump, accused of corruption, censorship and political pressure on the media, as well as breaking freedom of speech. You lied about representing the European Union there, but there were no arrangements that would make you represent it. It is heard that the prominent politician of Solidarna Polska, an anti-European party, is to become a minister. Zbigniew Ziobro today in the Seym gave a show of hatred for European values. You are creating a system of political oligarchs, which brings impunity to loyal crooks, as in the case of Masha. That vote proved it today. You defended his company that cheated on the parents of sick children. Janusz Korwin-Mikke calls the fake news about the capture of Mariupola by the Russians, their defeat of the Azov division and the discovery by Chechens of the composition of Ukrainian ammunition. With the first you're in the coalition, with the second you plan it after the next election. All with accompaniment fake Kurski's media. I only have one appeal: come to your senses and get off the long-term Russian path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u451	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Margaret Chmiel. There is no Member. Mr Marek Polak. There isn't either. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u452	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think that every war next to the great misfortune it brings also reveals the extraordinary heroic attitudes. Today the hero is the Ukrainian nation and its president Volodymyr Zelenski. We are also proud of the attitude of President Andrzej Duda, the Polish government and our diplomacy at this difficult moment of history. But I wanted to draw attention to the figure of the President of the United States, Joe Biden, who, in full solidarity with Europe, including Poland, took decisive and decisive action to express opposition to Russian aggression against Ukraine without undue delay. He has ensured the willingness to defend every piece of NATO territory that the United States will undertake with the full potential of the American army, uniting in this determination and solidarity all members of the Alliance. He also convinced the public of the need for such action and the need to bear possible economic costs in order to defend democratic freedom and values. Without hesitation, he imposed on Russia a package of effective economic sanctions, which are systematically extended, and supported Ukraine in the military, and what is particularly important to us, he has significantly reorganized and strengthened the defence system of the eastern NATO flank with allies. The alliance with the United States appears in the context of President Biden's diplomatic decisions and actions as an extremely important element which, alongside its modern army, guarantees us the security of our homeland, for which I would like to express my gratitude and thank President Joe Biden. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u453	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. There is no Member. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the message of St. John Paul II on the sanctity of human life, the church in Poland established the Day of the Holiness of Life, which we celebrate on 25 March. It has been established to stimulate the sensitivity and value of human life at every stage of its life and to draw attention to the need for particular care for it. Unfortunately, we are witnessing an indifference to this message and actions that should never happen. During the criminal war in Ukraine, we see that the Russian invader does not count on the value of human life. In front of the whole world, innocent people are murdered on Ukrainian soil, including the most vulnerable: women, children, the elderly. Hospitals, schools, nursing homes, housing are being bombed. Even humanitarian aid in places affected by the war is hindered or even prevented. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those and institutions who support those affected by the tragedy of war, both those who have decided to remain in their homeland and those who have been forced to leave it. The present situation shows what a lack of respect for human life can lead to. All the more so, politicians are obliged to take action for the highest social values, in particular the protection of the fundamental constitutional right, the right to life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u455	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the poem Fr. Jan Twardowski says: Let's hurry to love people, they leave so quickly. I keep reading: don't be sure you have time, because you're not sure. We still love too little and still too late. I would like to add from myself: we respect ourselves too little, especially in Parliament. We hear it all the time. I would like to inform you that last Thursday, March 17th, I received sad information about the death of Jerzy Bajowski, wójta gmina Koczała in the district of człuchowski in Pomerania. I mention your uncle as concerned about his community, the people of a kind man. Sleep. Mr. Uncle Jerzy Bajowski was a very good man. Before that, he was the Chief. He took care of his small homeland, tried to obtain support from the local government under government programs, e.g. Government Fund Polski Ład: Programs of Strategic Investments or a program of support of the area. The municipality of Koczala lost a very good host, a patriot devoted to family and residents, a modest, kind man. From this speaker I give my most sincere condolences to my wife, family, loved ones and residents of Koczała commune. I received another sad news on March 20th. Another local governmentman came to you, with whom I had great pleasure to cooperate, a long-term councillor of Pawłówko-Lipienice Mariola Pażontka-Lipińska. From sleep. I co-operated, co-operated, appreciated her for her great commitment to the affairs of the community, for her faith, because she was seeking her little homeland, for the roundabout in Lipienice, which was called St. John Paul II. Sleep. The Council (The Bell) tried very hard to repair the former national road 22, which is partly located in its headquarters. I'm very sad that another close person I know in person is leaving. Chojnice County lost a great self-government officer, a great chief. My dearest condolences and condolences to the dead family, my husband Peter, for the children here. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto them forever. Amen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u457	Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u458	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the last meeting of the Sejm, I asked Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is also Minister of Finance, to extend the deadline for submitting financial statements for 2021 for small, medium and micro-enterprises. This request was implemented in a limited form, because the regulation of the Ministry of Finance of 17 March, item. 639, on the extension of the financial reporting deadline, covers only entrepreneurs who account on the basis of CIT for entrepreneurs who have companies and conduct them in the form of companies governed by commercial law. At the same time, 3 million micro-enterprises, natural persons, who are self-employed, were left out. By issuing this regulation, you wrote in the explanatory memorandum that this was due to the chaos connected with the introduction of the Polish Order prepared by the United Right Government. This is also the result of the outbreak of COVID-19. This was the justification for the introduction of these longer deadlines by 30 June this year. for legal entities that account for themselves on the basis of CIT. But after all, the same causes, the same disasters also affect, if not to a greater extent, entrepreneurs who conduct single-person business activities. Today, running a company in our country, if you are a natural person, is extremely difficult. And anyone who runs this company is fully aware of that. I think that if there were more people in the Polish parliament, in the Polish government, who have such experiences, you would also be more understanding about what the micro-enterprises are asking for, what they are asking the accountants for. Therefore, it is important to extend the financial reporting deadlines also for clearing agents on the basis of PIT by 30 June 2022. From this point of view, I would like to say that this is just Polish micro-enterprises, all individuals who conduct business activities, simply humanly should, this little bit of decency and a little understanding. The appropriate letter, the proper interpellation signed by many parliamentarians, lies on the desk of Prime Minister Morawiecki. And today, as Minister of Finance, he has the opportunity, he has a pen to sign the relevant regulation. I hope that you, the parliamentarians of PiS, will also encourage Prime Minister Morawiecki to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have a statement about Poland's support for victims of war fleeing Ukraine. I am proud to be a Pole, and of the attitude of our compatriots who have opened their homes and hearts to the victims of war. It's already 2,200 grand. Ukrainians crossed the Polish border. Many of them will stay in Poland, which is fully ready to help. Ukrainians are treated equally with Polish citizens. There's no refugee camp here. There's full social, medical, psychological support. Polish language courses are conducted. The labour market opens up to Ukrainians and schools receive Ukrainian children. Poland has a large heart and sets an example for the whole of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka. There is no Member. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. I can't see either. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u462	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the morning of February 24, he shocked the whole democratic world. Russia's military aggression against Ukraine is a scandalous violation of Ukrainian independence and international law. Since the first day of the war, we have been able to observe two extreme images. On the one hand, from the east, the extremely brutal attack of Russian troops on Ukraine, on the other hand, the open heart of the Polish nation, which is carrying unselfish help to refugees from Ukraine, from the west. The love of neighbor versus the cruelty of war. My family's Podkarpackie voivodeship became one of the first regions to which refugees from the war-raised Ukrainian state came because of their geographical location. Assistance for people leaving Ukraine was organised immediately. This became possible thanks to the very fast and courageous decisions of the Polish government led by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Podkarpackian Voivodeship, Mrs Eve Leniart. This was also possible thanks to the enormous efforts of the services headed primarily by the Bieszczadzki Border Guard Branch, the Police, the Fire Department, the National Tax Administration, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, employees of the Podkarpackie Regional Office and many other bodies of the complex administration. There are six reception points in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship: Korczowa, Medyka, Krowica Sama, Ustrzyki Dolne, Młyny, Przemyśl. People fleeing Ukraine who do not have their place of residence in Poland can go to this point. They will receive information about further stay in Poland, meals, basic medical care, resting place and in case of lack of accommodation in Poland they will be given temporary accommodation. The situation in both Ukraine and at the borders of our country is very dynamic. It's not days, and hours bring change. However, just today, a month after the start of the war, from this place I would like to thank all those involved in helping refugees from Ukraine. I would like to thank the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the members of the government and Eve Leniart, the Podkarpackian Voivodeship, whom I have already mentioned. I also cordially thank the employees of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship Office. In some of his departments about 60% people working in them were involved in activities related to the assistance of refugees in reception centres. Thank you very much to all employees of the services mentioned above who work on the Polish-Ukrainian border. Thank you very much to the director of Caritas Poland, Fr. Marcin Iżycki, and the director of Caritas Archdiocese of Przemysl, Fr. Arthur Janiec, and director of the Caritas Diocese of Rzeszow, Fr. Peter got beat up. I would also like to thank Marshal Władysław Ortyl and local governments of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship for their involvement in helping refugees from Ukraine. I would also like to thank all those who are committed to helping refugees from Ukraine in the framework of citizens' initiatives very warmly. I would like to thank the parishioners, the houseswives, the bridesmaids and the bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters, the members of associations, the owners of enterprises (the bell), the individuals who joined in the efforts for refugees from Ukraine. Your open hearts and dedication work brings beautiful results. With your attitude you show a true image of the Polish people. Thank you very much again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u463	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u464	Dear Marshal! Dear Parliamentaries! We are in fact where we have war beyond our eastern borders. The Ukrainian people have been defending themselves for a month. We need to draw lessons from this, military conclusions, which is why we unanimously supported the Homeland Defense Act, which provides for an increase in military spending of up to 3%. GDP, which will enable the Polish government to increase the number of professional soldiers and the Territorial Defence Forces and equip them with modern equipment, which will effectively deter an aggressor from the East. That is why I am appealing, asking the commander of the Armed Forces, President Andrzej Duda, to Prime Minister Morawiecki, to Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister Skurkiewicz, Minister of Ociepa, General Andrzejczak for the creation of Podlasie Division in the Podlaskie Voivodeship. We, inhabitants of Podlasie, do not feel safe, having as a neighbour Lukashenka, which is 100% subordinated to Putin's decisions, including the Belarusian army. I would like to point out that more and more Russian troops are stationed in the territory of Belarus and we are aware that it will remain there. So I appeal to the above. persons who have a real impact on the creation of the Podlaskie division in the new budgetary perspective of the Ministry of National Defence. The creation of the Podlaskie division will ensure the security of the population living directly along the border with Belarus. Gentlemen, the Podlaskie province is counting on you. The Podlaska division will improve the security of the eastern flank of NATO and Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u465	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u466	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the money ends, the PiS decided to outsmart the European Union and to re-establish the rule of law in Poland. In the three laws proposed today, they do so in different ways. In the first MPs of the PIS they change the name of the Chamber, in the second, Ziobro uses the opportunity to subjugate the Supreme Court, just as he previously politicized the prosecution. [[Voice from the room: Minister Ziobro.]] And in the third, the president thinks he's the smartest, because he's destroying the PiS Disciplinary Chamber, but he's infecting the entire Supreme Court with these neosedes. None of these three projects of the United Right removes the original sin, or politicized KRS, and it is it that is the source of evil, and it is through it that people who in the normal state of law have no right to judge are brought to court. The Constitutional pseudo-tribunal is inextricably connected to it, because if the Constitutional Tribunal were independent, it would immediately find the unconstitutionality of the political judicial council. But as we all know, that's definitely not gonna happen. These are the two most dangerous heads of this PiS plumbing. But there are more heads. One key, though hidden behind others, is the head of Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, who wants to gain absolute power. The other head of the hydra has the face of the president who pretends to be pro-Union and at the same time appoints the neo-Judges. There's the head of Ziobra's Justice Minister, probably the most venomous. First he destroyed the rule of law in Poland, politicized the prosecution, and this leads directly to polexit. Another of the heads of the hydra, a very lousy one, is the Disciplinary Chamber, which punishes independent judges. All judges are being repressed by this House for respecting EU law, executing judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the TSEU, and this is the biggest crime according to the PiS. And this multi-headed beast was reborn at a time when our neighbors gave their lives so that their European law was the highest value and could fully apply. That is why we have no choice: either we chop off all the heads of this hydra and we start working back on a project of the Civic Coalition prepared by the Association of Justices of the Mustitia and thus depoliticize the KRS, all the other bodies and then we will stay in the European Union, or this monster will devour us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u467	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u468	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who have been actively involved in Ukraine's assistance. In the face of such a great tragedy that affected millions of Ukrainians, Poles were able to unite in action. I would like to thank, in particular, the firefighters of TSOs, companies, institutions, and above all, people who spontaneously, without spare their own resources and time, unselfishly day and night bring help to those in need. Today we are setting an example for Europe as a whole. Poles, thank you with all your heart. We write a beautiful card of our history. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Łukasz Mejza, Member of the non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u470	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that there is war and all forces are involved in helping our friends Ukrainians. Besides, we show both as a nation and as a state of extremely large heart, we set a perfect example for the rest of Europe, we show what responsibility and brotherly help means, but we must not forget our internal affairs and the standards we must follow. Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday, there was an anniversary that many missed. It's been a year since the Senate started blocking the vote on the waiver of the immunity of Marshal Thomas Grodzki. It is an anniversary without an absolute precedent in Polish politics. For all those for whom the rule of law and equality of citizens towards the law is important in Poland, this is definitely not a reason to consume the cake and drink a glass of champagne. Let me remind you a few facts. For a year now, the D.A.'s office has been trying to charge Tomasz Grodzki with corruption. In the case more than 100 witnesses were interviewed, who, by mentioning their name, pointed to corrupt actions involving Tomasz Grodzki. The prosecution has established several corruption events involving Thomas Grodzki directly, several of which are not statute-barred. However, the vote on the waiver of immunity has been blocked by the Senate majority led by Tomasz Grodzki for a year now. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask: Where are all those who, on a political commission for many weeks, have tried to medialy crucify me on the basis of the statements and the influx of the fantasy of a man who clearly dive into Disneyland and disguised himself as a journalist? Where are those who have hunted me for political order for a few weeks, chasing a sensation, and if they haven't caught up with this sensation, then they just created it and invented it just to hit the government of the United Right? I'll remind you, I have no charges against you. The D.A. won't charge me because I didn't break a half inch of the law, and according to witnesses, Tomasz Grodzki broke a law. Where are those media who are so eager to scream about freedom of speech? I do not recall any corruption charges against Tomasz Grodzki, who wants to press charges against the D.A. on the anniversary day. Mr. Marshal! On this anniversary, I wish you to show your true attitude to the rule of law and respect for the authorities of the state and voluntarily waive your immunity. Instead of celebrating the year of your escape from the D.A.'s office, show that you've grown into your role. This anniversary should be a chance for you to stand up for yourself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you have nothing to accuse yourself of, I don't think that should be a problem. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u471	I invite Mrs Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the fifth time today, 24 March, we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation, established on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. This is a reference to the day on which the German MPs murdered Józef Ulma in 1944, his pregnant wife Victoria, six young children and eight Jews they had hidden. In occupied Poland, Germany used the most brutal methods of repression against people helping Jews - for giving bread or water to another man the death penalty was threatened - but Poles behaved as necessary. One of the works commemorating Poles saving Jews is the Chapel of Remembrance in the Shrine of the Blessed Virgin Mary of the New Evangelization and St. John Paul II in Toruń. On its walls there are 1174 names of Poles who lost their lives, helping the Jewish people. Thanks to the involvement of the Radio Maryja family, the National Remembrance Park was created, which reminds Poles about heroism during World War II. In the face of the accusations of Polish participation in the Holocaust, the fight for the truth is especially important today. According to some estimates, the heroic attitude of Poles allowed to save up to 200,000. human beings. Remember those who paid the highest price for humanity. Today is also a commitment for us to always behave properly, and thus like people who create a society that is compatible, solidarity in the face of various threats and challenges and who rush with help to those in need, which, as history shows, Poles have in their blood. It is worth remembering these events to remind us of respect for every human life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u473	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The capital city of Warsaw has been stopping the sale of municipal apartments to their tenants for almost 10 years. The sale of such premises was still carried out during the period of the Polish People's Republic and in the 1990s this sale continued. In 2004, the then President of Warsaw Lech Kaczyński proposed to introduce regulations that allowed long-term tenants of the premises to receive 80- or 90-percent discounts when sold by the city. Thanks to this policy, housing communities began to form, which created renovation funds and raised money for renovations. Thanks to this it was possible to renovate roofs, stairways, facades. It turned out that the buildings can be managed in a way that not only stops their degradation, but also makes them modernized and renovated. Housing communities, which, despite having their problems, are doing better and cheaper than the building and real estate managers of Warsaw officials. Unfortunately, in 2011 the Warsaw Council decided to change this. Sales were hindered and then practically stopped. The effect of this is that long-term tenants of municipal premises have lost their ability to buy these premises. Warsaw still has to rely on the maintenance of these premises. It must also maintain a number of officials responsible for managing this resource. The city's resources are also individual premises within housing communities. Instead of withdrawing from participation in communities, the Warsaw authorities prefer not to sell these premises to their tenants and continue to pay large sums to maintain the common parts. The sale of municipal premises in housing communities to tenants would bring quite a large income to the city, while reducing the expenditure associated with the maintenance of these premises. Unfortunately, the authorities of Warsaw cannot afford to reflect on this issue and go against the demands of the tenants of municipal buildings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u475	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Agata asked me yesterday on the Green Party's Facebook page: If not from Russia, where should we import coal, how can we minimize its consumption faster? I don't know anything about it, I'm asking for an answer. Mrs. Agata and all the others who are asking similar questions today, I answer. That's right. Imports of Russian coal are still around 15% national demand. At least half of the coal burned in our homes and small district heating plants is Russian coal. The proposal of the Greens and the Civil Coalition is: let us refrain from importing coal, but also imports of other fossil fuels from Putin - now. Let's not finance the war in Ukraine. How do I do that? First of all, we can now, even for the next three months, stop bringing coal from Russia. We have a reserve in Poland, spring begins, the demand for heat drops sharply. To help this, let us introduce strong antismog resolutions in voivodships. The PiS Councillors in Mazowsze were afraid of this this week and dismissed the process of such a resolution. Don't do this. This is how you promote Russian coal. Secondly, today let us prepare for the next heating season. The simplest solution is a comprehensive programme of thermomodernization, i.e. heating houses and cooperatives. According to the report ¿Impuls for Polish Energy thermal modernization of buildings would reduce the cost of our heating by, attention, as much as 60%, and also help create an additional 85 thousand. jobs. The funds for this project, over PLN 7 billion, are waiting for us in the European Union. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice was late with the so-called deposit. the long-term renovation strategy, which is why these measures are at risk today. We can't afford to lose them. Third, let's unblock renewable energy immediately. The 2016 Anti-Windmill Act blocks the possibility of developing wind energy on land. This development can be unlocked by one law. This bill was filed with the Marshal's staff as Greens and the Civic Coalition this month. It is similar with the energy of the sun. Unlocking the possibility of using photovoltaics in cooperative housing and housing communities is a matter again - only legislation. Appropriate legal and technological tools exist, so-called. collective prosumer, virtual prosumer, are widely used in the world. They're waiting in the seym freezer, too. Let's use them now. What about the gas? The answer to gas from Russia is agricultural biogas and they are biogas plants. Poland as a large producer of agricultural products has a huge potential for the development of renewable biogas. Each Polish village can be energy independent with the help of biogas plants and clusters of renewable energy. It's possible. But it's just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to solutions that are waiting for implementation. Let's do it. Let's cut off this spring from coal and fossil fuels from Russia. It is possible and today, now, this is a matter for the importance of human life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u477	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I want to dedicate my message to the great son of Podkarpackie land, world-famous artist, Professor Józef Szajno. In March 2022, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny, who was born on 13 March 1922 in Rzeszów. He was a middle school student. Sobinski in this town. In September 1939, as a student of junior high school, he was mobilized and incorporated into 17. The infantry regiment he reached Lviv with. He fought the Nazi invader in conspiracy, for which he was arrested and deported from Tarnów to the concentration camp in Oświęcim. Already in 1944-1945 he created the first drawings of the camp scenes, and in 1945-1947 he stayed on the premises. A German near the border with the Netherlands. He graduated from a Polish school, returned to Poland. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow, where he received a diploma in graphics. He also received a degree in scenography. In the years 1955-1966 he was co-founder and director of the People's Theatre in Krakow. For the Polish theatre, Szajny's cooperation with Jerzy Grotowski in the Opole Theatre of 13 Rzdzi was particularly fruitful, where in 1962 he performed the stage design until the Acropolis. In 1972 Prof. Szajna founded the Art Center in Warsaw. His works were in galleries all over the world. In 1989, the Brazilian Art Biennial critics decided that he was one of the five greatest artists in the 20th century. Prof. Józef Szajna actively participated in the activities of the International Auschwitz Council. In the home town of Prof. Szajny, in Rzeszów, on 13 March 1997 it was opened at the Teatr im. Wanda Semyaszkowa Gallery Czajna with works of art, which the master handed over to his city. As president of the city of Rzeszów, I had the honour of meeting and speaking with the professor at the Wanda Siemaszkowa Theatre and at the Town Hall of Rzeszów. During these talks the idea of placing spatial composition by the professor was created. Silent in Rzeszów, performed by artist Marcin Rut (The Bell). The ceremony of unveiling this composition took place in October 2002. During the ceremony Professor Szajna said that this sculpture is to unite. And that's what happens until today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u479	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u480	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, before the High House, it is necessary once again to call on the Federal Republic of Germany to block the SWIFT instrument for Gazprombank and Sbierbank - for those two banks that distribute EUR 200 million a day to Putin, so that this criminal, the Putin genocider, can arm himself so that bombs and rockets can go to kindergarten, schools, maternity hospitals in Ukraine. There can't be an agreement. We have also recently learned of an unacceptable situation. Namely, France, which had no right to sell Russian weapons despite the embargo, sold these weapons. Today, Germany and France must apologize to the Ukrainian side. It is not without meaning, ladies and gentlemen, that the words of President Wołodymyr Złenski remain, who spoke here, before the Polish Parliament, thanking Polish Members and Senators: Thank you, brothers and sisters, before the American Congress: Thank you for being with us. Before the Federal Republic of Germany, before the Bundestag he said: "You have built a wall, meaningful words. I also call on the Netherlands, because today we have received another very sad information - for Europe, for the world, but especially for the Ukrainian side - that refugees will not be relocated there. Refugees from Ukraine will not be able to enter the territory of the Netherlands. This is the law-abiding Netherlands from which Franz Timmermans came, who was secretary in 1990-1993 - where? He was a secretary in Moscow. Today I call on Franz Timmermans to stop such practices and to open himself to refugees. For those people who actually are war refugees who are fleeing from war territory from Ukraine to the countries of the European Union. And I remind Franz Timmermans that it was the European Union that decided that the whole of Europe, within the framework of a common legal standard, would be able to accept refugees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-sejm-51-2.u481	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 51st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 52nd session of the Sejm, convened on 6 and 7 April 2022, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 35]]
