ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators located in the Senate building, please check that all of you have disabled applications to participate in the sitting remotely, and that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us by phone at the number you have previously provided. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The card's not working.]] The card doesn't work? [[It's working.]] Okay. Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. This number, we believe, will only grow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Organic Farming and Organic Production Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 712, and the report of the Commission In print No 712 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the examination of the Green Agriculture and Organic Production Act at the meeting held on 7 June. We debated it and produced 10 amendments, which the committee supported. There is also a request from a minority of committees concerning Article. 4. I think the rapporteur for the minority committee will be able to justify his proposal. The Commission supported the amendments, which were mainly proposals submitted by the Legislative Office and consulted with the Ministry. The Ministry agreed that some of these amendments should also include substantive amendments, not only legislative amendments. One of the amendments that had been tabled was an amendment that I had tabled. It was about allowing extra people to be eligible. They may be qualified, not only passed exams, but also qualified. This is already a matter of the High House's decision, but the committee has supported this amendment. The aim of this law is, of course, mainly to apply Regulation 2018/848 of the European Parliament of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Council Regulation No 834/2007. This law mainly cleans up all the matters which are related to this regulation, there are additional definitions here. In general, it can be said that this law aims to identify the authorities competent to carry out the tasks set out in the provisions set out in the said Regulation of the European Union, including control and surveillance of organic production. I would like to point out that, as we look at the law, the glossary itself, we see that almost everything is based on a regulation of the European Union. The aim of the Act is also to introduce facilitations for fertilisers authorised for use in other Member States of the European Union and thus to increase the supply of fertilisers for organic production. These are exceptional fertilisers which are authorised throughout the European Union; to increase support for organic farmers using seeds of organic quality; to lay down the legal basis for the Chief Inspector to issue guidelines and instructions on the marketing quality of agri-food products in order to ensure the correct performance of the tasks carried out by certification bodies; to ensure that the staff of certification bodies carrying out official controls have adequate competence; to abolish the requirement for certification bodies to assess applications for derogations from the rules of organic production. Most farmers are satisfied with this new law. Let me remind you that this bill, I would say, eliminates the previous act. This is a new piece of legislation that cleans things up. There were a lot of comments at the committee meeting, there was a discussion. They had the opportunity to present their opinions to social and professional organisations, who also made their own proposals. I hope that the High House will accept the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I encourage you to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur for minorities from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Anthony the Husband, to present a proposal from the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President has already presented a report on the committee meeting. We as the majority of the Senate because we have a different, not only party agreement on substantive issues, no, is the coalition of parties that form the Senate majority, and we have returned to the debate and arguments that came up in the legislative process at the Sejm, and we have taken into account, we have tried to take into account those amendments that the opposition tabled. As the Civic Platform, as the Civic Coalition, we have tabled most of the amendments, all the more important amendments that were considered in the Sejm. Those that were of great importance to the environments related to organic farming. It must be said here that in the work on this environmental law, which they deal with e.g. organic production, they were very active. As part of the majority, we tried to reach our own position and ultimately reduced the number of these amendments about four times, because the members of the agricultural committee have a more pro-agricultural rather than greener approach to all these issues. We try to deal primarily with agricultural production. Of course, this has positive effects in terms of economic issues, because agricultural exports and the efficiency of Polish agriculture are very high. Because of that... Well, I'm not gonna say that the effect of this work isn't because of our coalitioner, the PSL, and our expert Senator, but also the expert. Richard Bober. So that we finally left two amendments. One relates to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 This provision concerns the control of organic farms as soon as organic production is completed. But it's supposed to be environmental control, that's product control. How can organic products be checked after 5 years of production? It seems that it is not so burdensome for producers as it is simply impossible. This is an illogical solution and that is why we agreed to the demands of environmental producers to eliminate them. The second problem was the issue of these exams when it comes to organic production inspectors, and the creation of a register. Although in the very wording of the provision It's an art. 14 in the header part was maybe, i.e. if you could say that this exam is optional and not mandatory, then the next 2 paragraphs determined it, and the Legislative Office explained to us, especially explained to me that it is mandatory. Yeah, and we can't agree to that either, because these inspectors can be qualified for different reasons, because of their expertise, education, etc., as well as because of their experience abroad. And the point was to leave the optional solution here. We had some proposals, but Mr President, just as a representative of the Law and Justice, the rulers, also noted this problem, and the Legislative Bureau and Mr President worked out a solution that we have accepted. We believe that this is a good solution and very correct legislatively. That is why we have not tabled this amendment, even though we have come to the conclusion that such an amendment should be, i.e. we accept and support the PiS amendment. But when it comes to art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4, but we want to make an amendment because we think that such a solution is as sensible and necessary as far as agricultural production and organic production are concerned, because as far as checks are concerned, which are meant to be a survey of receipts and correct conduct... I do not know, accounting, treasury, paying taxes, etc... All these checks may be carried out on the basis of other provisions. And this checking that's what I'm going to say, ecological is practically impossible. So logically, and it makes sense to give it up. And we proposed it, i.e. delete point 2. As a result, of course, in the mouth. 5 reference to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 4 (2) is also deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point, I would like to welcome you to the Secretary of State, Mr Rafał Romanowski. I see that on the list of present guests is also the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products, Mr Andrzej Romaniuk. Welcome, gentlemen. And I have a question: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on organic farming and organic production submitted by the government is expected not only by tens of thousands of organic farmers, processors, but also by all consumers who choose in accordance with the principles of organic production of the European Union, respecting the environment, animal welfare, without the use of unacceptable plant protection products and fertilisers. This law was established in accordance with the principles of legislative technology in force in Poland, it was the subject of an agreement and consultation, which resulted in many changes in order to meet the expectations of farmers in particular, in order to provide them with the best conditions for development, inter alia. proposed administrative simplification, increased support from the State and facilitation of the use of inputs. It is also very important to provide competent authorities with tools for effective supervision of the sector, which has a huge impact on the safety of honest farmers, producers and consumers. The project received the support of the Lower Chamber, the Polish Sejm, with a large majority, which shows that the project is expected by all parties, as also mentioned by Senator Mężyłko. The Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in its report 712 A of 7 June asks that the Senate adopt a number of amendments to the government proposal. Most of these amendments received a positive opinion from the government. Thank you very much for these amendments, and thank you for your excellent cooperation with the Legislative Office and the Commission. There have also been 2 amendments by the minority of the committee, and I would like to clarify some points here. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the essence of the matter is that this project has been consulted, and I stress this for Mr. Senator Husband, with producers, that is, organic farmers. And I would not want to overinterpret the concept of certifying entities during senate work, because these amendments, which were tabled by Senator Marzydła and by Mr Chróścikowski, represent the interests of certifying entities. In Poland we have such a system that private certification bodies, commercial law entities, certify organic farmers. These amendments represent only the interests of those certifying bodies, not farmers themselves. During the legislative work I will return here to the issue of this examination, the farmers themselves were the beneficiaries of this examination and were in favour of maintaining the examination system. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that organic farming is that when we go to the store, we reach for a product with a mark, a green leaf. This means that this product is ecological. Let us give consumers respect for this green leaf, let us guarantee that the right people allowed to do so after passing the relevant exam will certify these farms and thus guarantee the organic farming system in Poland in accordance with the European Union system. This is the essence, this is the implementation of the European Union regulation, which we want to consummate, which we want to introduce with us. Let's remember that almost 40% various documents, delegations to this main regulation of the European Union have not yet been issued. So this bill will probably be a living organism and maybe in a few months we'll meet about amending this law. But the essence of this law should be preserved. The senator has tabled an amendment, a minority request, explaining that it is difficult to store organic products for a period of 5 years. Mr. Senator, I fully agree with the senator, but let's try to understand the meaning of the article. 4 and what you want out of this bill. The purpose of the record is to allow checks on the correctness of the documentation, I stress, the correctness of the documentation. Mr. Senator, I want to make sure that if in three years' time it turns out that the farmer has created, for example, in the organic system 800 kg of apples and ceased this activity already 3 years ago, and on the market supposedly appeared from this farm for example. 5 t apples, this main inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products will be able to enter this farm, but not to check apples, products, just to check the documents, is that on the holding where the activity ceased was produced 800 kg, not 5 t of these apples. This control is only about monitoring documentation. What's the problem? Senator, I assure you, I say this with full responsibility and full awareness: this is about documentation. The problem is that if a farmer ceases that activity, the certification body is obliged to keep these documents and IJHARS is able to enter that certification body. If, therefore, the certification body takes the money which is reimbursed from the European Union for certification of the holding, it would be appropriate that it should also be responsible for the certificate issued by it, even though the farmer concerned has ceased to carry out organic activities. That's the point of this article. So let us give the possibility to use an appropriate quality system for organic farming. It's all about documentation. The National Tax Administration will not encourage in this respect, it will not control these documents, and we want to be a credible partner when it comes to organic farming, not only on a national scale, but also on a European scale. And our products reach not only the European Union, but also third countries. This is what the provisions of this regulation of the European Union, namely Regulation 2018/848, require of us. And this is exactly where I said to you: "It has emphasised the transfer of control documents in the event of a change in the control body or control body or In case of withdrawal from organic production, storage for at least 5 years of the control documentation by the last inspection body or last certification body. Let us make commitments to producers who produce organic farming, organic food production, and do not necessarily represent the interests of 11 certification bodies which are admitted to this system and which have obtained a noble right to certify farms. Back to the subject of the exam, which is the article. 14, to be honest, the government side, as in the case of Art. 4, negative views on the amendment. In the case of Article. 14 We do not see the point of the amendment, for a very simple reason. Not only does it not necessarily meet the expectations of the farmers themselves... Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we are to allow on the basis of a diploma one of the directions... So I understand that we also allow a veterinarian to do this, that he will have the right to carry out the tasks of an inspector in organic farming. That's how I understand the point of this amendment. I also understand... What am I to understand as a one-year internship in a certification body that will allow me to carry out the tasks of a certifying inspector? I understand that the computer schedule, which will be employed in such a unit, I understand that the driver, I understand that the secretary on the basis of a one-year internship will have the opportunity to be an inspector of the certification body. For example, a graduate... With all due respect to the graduates, because I know very many fine professors and graduates of agricultural and technical academy from the turn of the 1970s and 1980s with great experience... But this diploma is gonna authorize a graduate who graduated back then... I am talking about organic farming with all due respect for this period of education There wasn't even half a word then, there was no mention of him. And someone on the basis of such a document will be admitted to this profession? I think we're really going to a dead end. I think this exam... I, of course, accepted a huge commitment in the Seym of the Republic of Poland that we will civilize the exam that there will be no such famous, magical 100 questions that part of the exam will be a typical practical part. But let us not allow people who can really acquire the qualifications that producers would expect. Let us not represent the interests of certification bodies. These amendments were written by specific persons, by representatives of specific certification bodies. These amendments have emerged in the course of the work. As part of the social evaluation process, as part of the work on the project and the public consultation, at the express request of the social party, we withdrew from the record that he endured and returned to the exam record. So this is the point of these amendments. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we are very sympathetic to the vast part of the amendments made by the Committee on Agriculture, but these 2 amendments distort the sense and essence of the law, which is in the far-reaching interest of organic farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Senator Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u8	Minister, I agree with you and with your argument, but I do not agree diametrically on understanding economic issues. You can't eliminate... Because they're private certification bodies, you're going to eliminate them from the market? After all, in Poland there is... Not only must there be national exams... not only such certification bodies should be allowed for certification, and that is because these entities already function well today. All the more so, as far as other persons are concerned, who can be included in the register of these certification bodies, they often have a much higher education than those who have just prepared for the exam. Tell me where there's such a solution that there's a mandatory exam. After all, the debate on this has already taken place and the Ministry itself said that there is only such a thing in China, i.e. in an economy which is not market-oriented. As far as the European countries are concerned, this is even an optional solution that I am willing to accept, because it increases the competitiveness of the certification bodies... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Thank you, Senator.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[But it's been a minute.]] Okay, but I'll take it back... [[But this isn't a discussion, the questions are now.]] We, Minister, will vote for both amendments, and you in the Sejm will do what you want. I would also ask Mr Chróścikowski... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. That was supposed to be a question. Now the minister answers.]] ...to convince the majority of the Seym to support it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! You're misconstruing the concept. There's no discrediting certification bodies here, we're not talking about units here. Mr. Senator, we're not talking about certification bodies, they're allowed into the system. We are talking about inspectors who qualify farms for organic production. This is a completely different matter. Those who are ambitious to become such an inspector are taking the exam. That's the difference. And don't tell me that the government has ever admitted or suggested that there's only one exam in China. Please check the German system In the German system, this is mandatory. If someone's passing a driving test, they're going to pass a practical test. In the German system there is a practical exam, there are 5 checks under the supervision of the supervisory inspector. It's an exam system, too. So don't tell us that. We're talking about inspectors allowed to work in these units. Nobody disqualifies certification bodies, nothing more wrong. We ourselves agreed to a system in which, under the supervision of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products, these private operators, i.e. certification bodies, certified farms, farms producing food and raw materials in organic farming. And that's what this system is all about, and no one's taking it away from them. On the contrary, we praise this system. This system is tested and copied by many European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u11	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u12	Dear Minister, I have actually a legislative question next to this discussion that has now arisen between Senator Husband and you. Well, at the last stage of this bill's preparation... In addition to this official procedure, the Act on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury was extended to include provisions concerning the Act 30 years ago, i.e. 1991. The main objective of this change, as the legislator says, is to introduce into the legal order a provision that in 2022 the amount of 500 million of surplus funds of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Senator, this concerns another law.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: This is not the bill.]] Isn't that the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: This is not the bill.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. The next one will be referred to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u13	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, and I'm sorry.]] Senator Man, once again... [[I'm not on the committee. That's why I missed it.]] I'm sorry, Senator Bogucki was here earlier. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u14	Minister, aren't you afraid that if we were to support the amendments of Senator Husband and the Civic Coalition, there might be a situation like the tax carousel or the VAT mafia? On the one hand, these good certification bodies... Good farmers would lose the opinion of Polish organic producers, as for example. in one year a son, the next year's daughter, the next year's father, would change every year the owner of the holding and it would not be possible to control these holdings. And if Mr. Man had shortened that period... And so this control of organic production is always control. Ex post, I think. On the other hand, certification bodies in which everyone could certify food could not exercise proper control. Isn't there such a danger that this system could be completely sealed? It is not about excessive, it seems to me, responsibilities, but it is about good farmers and good certification bodies to be able to safely introduce products and not to pay prices for opinions about those who would use this loophole. [[Timer signal]] Isn't this the kind of legal gap that's gonna be created here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u15	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You couldn't have said it better than the senator. There's one more thing. Let us remember one basic thing: by consuming these European Union rules, which give first and foremost security to this system... I'll say it again: he walks here. only about document control, nothing more. The point is that there are no more parties or such extremes in the transition from property to property. For this reason, we could bear the consequences for all food quality systems, especially organic food. Let us remember that all the time the most important issue that this law has in mind is 2030, i.e. reaching the 7% model. the area of agricultural land in Poland which would be subject to organic farming. This is followed by specific incentives. Let us remember that at the end of the current perspective, but also in the next EU perspective, there will be almost PLN 3 000 subsidies to 1 ha of agricultural land that is engaged in organic farming and during the conversion period, i.e. during the transition period and during the period of organic farming. It is not only that there are huge measures following this, it is not only that there are huge incentives for organic farming in Poland to develop, but there must still be a system of quality of this food. And it's not an obstruction system. I assure you, Senator, if someone stores fiscal documents for a period of 5 years, they can store these documents for the same purpose so that the quality system is kept properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u17	Thank you. Senator Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u18	Minister, as far as the article is concerned. 4, I didn't have time to refer to your speech here either, which is why I'm taking the floor for the second time. But I will not prolong, and I will no longer discuss it with you, because we will express our views during the vote. Here, I absolutely disagree with you that... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] You were at the committee meeting, and you heard those voices. The highest number of votes was on the issue of 5-year limitation and most of such votes were on the part of producers. And, uh... [[Mr. Senator, this is not a performance. Just put the question down.]] You know very well that more people wanted to speak. Everyone emphasizes that... you know, even those things you're talking about... In your speech you spoke about documentation, and as far as environmental documentation is concerned, these issues in these fiscal papers can also be read, i.e. the quantity that was produced, etc... [[Timer signal]] So that here I completely disagree with that. Mr. Senator Bogucki... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'd like to ask... [[Mr. Senator, a question, please.]] Why didn't you say that at the committee meeting, you weren't sucking up to the government, how you're sucking up now, here? [[Mr. Senator, question. Can you hear me, Senator?]] I would like you to answer whether the social side of the committee was, in fact, clear when it came to producers... [[Oh, yeah.]] ...on a 5-year extension. It was just one huge protest.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u19	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u20	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Commission! I was closely involved in this committee meeting. Those ladies who spoke on the social side represented only certification bodies. And I'm well aware of that. Mrs. Dorota Meter is the president of one of the certification bodies. The second counselor who spoke is an employee of the certification body, and I am well aware of that... and the chief accountant in the certification body. Let's remember that. I've known this industry for a few, well, ten years, so please respect my knowledge of this. In accordance with the order to submit a statement of reasons to the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4... art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4: In the context of the supervision of organic production, the Chief Inspector shall carry out an official inspection in: an organic producer; an entity which was an organic producer, within a period of 5 years from the date on which that body was informed in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) d (iii) the third indent of Regulation 2018/848 on the withdrawal from organic production. This entry is intended to enable checks to be carried out on the accuracy of the documents in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) the second indent of Regulation 2018/848. Senator, we only consume a regulation of the European Union. Please also respect that, if we are to say so, legitimise ourselves in relations with the European Union, it is to consume this provision: in addition to fulfilling the obligations laid down in Article. 15 European Union Regulation 2017/625 entities and groups of operators shall ensure, in the form of a declaration which must be signed and, if necessary, updated that the above-mentioned entity, i.e. the organic producer, has accepted the transmission of the control documentation in the event of a change of the control body or control body or, in the case of withdrawal from organic production, the storage for at least 5 years of the control documentation by the last control body or I think this is where we move in the nomenclature of this very concept of the last certification body. Without the proposal in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 point 2 of the Act, the Chief Inspector will not be able to verify the documentation in accordance with the provisions of Article. 39 (1) (a) 1. Thus, the supervisory authority will not be able to verify the correctness of the documentation by producers who have left the organic farming system. This is from the justification of the law, this is the justification for this particular provision of the European Union regulation, which we are implementing through this law. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u21	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Is the senator signing up? [[No.]] No. Good. [[Can I sign up?]] Senator Chróścikowski. Then please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak, but the Minister, in a way, provoked me to speak. First of all, what I'm saying is that our intention is not to fail the exams... the exams stay, the exams will be. And the bill states that the exams you have proposed and proposed will be. We merely offered an alternative to the orb. Because we can discuss whether the consistency of "and" will be binding or non-binding. We came to the word "or" to write that this is an alternative. Certified units, which today, like all other entities, have the right to turn... You can't insult them and say that they don't have the right to perform their activities... They're having trouble hiring people. They turn to the fact that they can't find professionals. So they have actually proposed a solution here. They wrote to us. There are writings, speeches. This is not some unjustified lobbying. This is in accordance with Polish law. And they made such proposals. And therefore it cannot be that we treat these individuals worse or better. Farmers will be monitored. They are trying and will try because they want to get the highest quality product and have a certificate. They don't want a certificate denied, but a check that comes in and notices that there's something wrong, immediately deprives the products sold of the certificate. If he catches a farmer on some erratic minor activity, he must, of course, withdraw the product immediately. He can't put it on the market. That's what checks are for. But the certification bodies employing the inspector take full responsibility for this employee's expertise. They're responsible for what he's doing. If he does anything wrong And there have been such examples... I know such examples from previous years that certification bodies were trying to take away their rights, deprive them of their rights, because they did wrong... This certification unit is responsible for this, not the inspector himself. She's the one who's responsible for whether it's done properly or not. If someone graduated from higher education, he has a master's degree in agriculture, etc. And he can acquire these rights, that's all we're letting him do, that unit doesn't have to take it. She can only take those who are out of exams. But if there is a shortage of such people in the market and the exams are often given by people who do not have this preparation, but who have learned and worked, why such a master's degree in engineering, who has graduated from the academy or at present a university of nature, or what would we call it, prevent him from having these powers? It's just above the unit... I don't see anything wrong with that, because we're also leaving... These exams are run by the Agricultural Advisory Center. There was a lot of controversy, comments, the Minister himself said that we would improve this case. So we're not blocking, we're giving an alternative. And if the High Chamber and the Sejm will accept it, it will only help those who work. Farmers do not have to comment on whether they want one or the other, because they are controlled. Whoever is controlled will always say that he wants the controller to be as gentle as possible so that he does nothing to him, no harm, he will be interested. But if there is a good specialist, he controls well and wants to maintain the quality of food, he wants it to be this so-called green leaf, and the farmer also cares about it, it is a joint action in this direction. I wouldn't see any obstacles not to do otherwise... And one more sentence. I wouldn't want to say... Several letters have been received by the committee, Minister, among others. from the Trade Union of Organic Farmers, which also writes about this so-called. Four that doesn't agree. But some organizations say yes, others say otherwise. This case is debatable, farmers are divided into articles. 4. My request is that, of course, if the Minister says so, the government will, and the Sejm will accept it. To give such an alternative, a possibility. I would like to point out that this is a possibility in Germany. According to my knowledge, which has been passed to me in Germany, in Germany inspectors are allowed to do so even if they are highly qualified and... If it exists in Germany, why can't it exist in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u23	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Gromko, Świlski, Godyla, Szwed, Jazłowiecka made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Yes, yes.]] He wants more. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will no longer quote this amendment to the article. 14, but I will ask a few rhetorical questions so that we can catch the point of this amendment and see to what extreme we can lead to. I understand the diplomas referred to in the paragraph. Point 3 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) a, obtained, for example, in the 1960's, 70's by those who did not work in the profession, are also to be honored. This is the result of the amendment tabled by the committee. Persons who have the diplomas mentioned above of a veterinarian will be able to control cereal producers or holders of a gardener's diploma will be able to control feed producers or, for example, fishing holdings. That is the intention of this amendment. What does an internship in the certification body mean? Can a person performing the duties of a previously mentioned computer scientist, graphic designer, driver also be regarded as fulfilling the requirement? That is the intention of this amendment. If the internship took place with an organic producer who lost his certificate e.g. in view of the irregularities identified by the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products in his activity, will this also be possible to count this traineeship to the minimum required? That is the intention of this amendment. In addition, it should be noted that if the traineeship is to concern the performance of tasks in the area of official control, i.e. in accordance with Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One proposed bill... Such tasks may only be carried out by persons who have the powers of an organic agricultural inspector. Thus, in accordance with the proposed amendment, to comply with the requirement to obtain the powers of inspector under Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 3, you must already have the inspector's authority, given through the exam. So are we simplifying or conflicting or confusing the whole system? Because that's the intention of the amendment. At the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture would like to remind that the draft law for public consultation contained a mechanism for obtaining the powers of the inspector on the basis of education and, according to the project, a person who has the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary for carrying out the official control in the field of the specialisation concerned, as confirmed by a certificate of completion of his first degree studies in agriculture, zootechnics, gardening or food technology or post-graduate studies in organic farming, with a very good assessment and a training course in organic farming carried out by the certification body. The proposal met with criticism of the Green Agriculture Council at the Ministry of Agriculture. There are representatives of institutions, organizations, scientific institutions in the Council. I think this recommendation is most appropriate. This is the common position of organic farming certification bodies of 28 June 2021, in which individuals have stated that the exemption from the examination of persons who have completed a very good evaluation, but who do not have any knowledge of organic farming or experience in this field, can lead to a situation where checks are carried out by incompetent persons in this field. It is the state of certification bodies in organic farming This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day We talk about the same amendment all the time. And that's what I'm talking about. because of the opposition of the Council for Organic Agriculture and the majority of certification bodies, the proposal to obtain the privileges of an inspector on the basis of education was removed from this project and we returned to the examination system which was in the previous law. And that is the intention of the government, the applicant, to consummate EU legislation. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and certain other laws and consider it as item 14 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 724, and the report of the committee In print No 724 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 7 June considered the law amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. The purpose of the Act is to introduce electronic circulation of documents. It is mainly about the submission of applications, as well as the drafting of documents in the electronic system by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This law is mainly a technical act. I think that after previous years, when the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture introduced an electronic application system for area charges And it worked very well, it worked very well. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency meet farmers and other documents and other applications can now be submitted in electronic form. The Act also provides for the possibility and rules for the storage of these documents, copies of documents, which are intended to improve the functioning of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. At the seym stage a change was also introduced concerning the management of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury. It is about leaving the National Agricultural Support Centre an amount of PLN 0.5 billion for interventions in the agricultural markets or support for farmers. This is the task of the National Agricultural Support Centre, which also stems from the name, and such measures should be available if it wants to react on the market, the more that we have the period as we have, and the situation is unstable due to the conflict in Ukraine. There are no amendments to the bill. It has not given rise to any more discussion, which is why this report is short. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u27	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any requests for such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Rafał Romanowski like to speak on this bill? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the Senator rapporteur, I would like to say that the most important proposals contained in the Act amending the Act on the National System of Registering of Producers and Farm Records include, first of all, the possibility of electronic submission of applications for registration, simplification concerning the archiving of documents by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, i.e. preparing an electronic copy of the documents after the end of the administrative proceedings concerning the entry in the producer records, the possibility of electronic submission of applications under the action, the wooded agricultural land, the clarification of the provisions allowing the Agency to restructure and modernise agriculture as a paying agency to verify prior to the conclusion of the agreement granting the aid the conditions for granting it under the action, the Knowledge Exchange and the Information Activities; these include advisory services, farm management services and substitution services. These provisions relate to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. And I'll dissipate it right away. With great enthusiasm for the senator. Doubts about the possibility... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...possibility to leave the surplus funds of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury to carry out the tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre and extend the scope of the objectives for which the units of the local government of the real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury may be transferred. The intention for this amendment, which was tabled by Members during the work on this law in the Sejm... The senator rightly noted that this is about PLN 500 million from the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resource, from the savings of the previous year. This money doesn't go anywhere, it doesn't work outside the state budget, and it's not open to any discussion. This money remains at the National Agricultural Support Centre and will create added value when carrying out the tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Mr. Senator mentioned various mechanisms that are now necessary. It is good that the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury is able to earn that much surplus. And above all, it is good that this money remains in the system of Polish agriculture, because it is nothing more than leaving it in 4 departments of agriculture, which are government departments. It is about agriculture, rural development, rural development, and fishing has recently taken place here. So this money stays in this system and nothing happens to this money, it's just going to be. Possibility... We are not talking in the European Union about the so-called. interventionism, there is no such thing as intervention, but there can be, for example. the necessary mechanisms for the buying-in of surplus consumption apples, which was carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. And there should be resources for these kinds of tasks. Or we have, for example. an entity that has recently been registered in the National Court Register, which is called the National Food Group. This National Food Group has its specific tasks, among these tasks is among others. participation in market mechanisms. It is an entity of commercial law, so this is done only on commercial rights. In addition to these sectors, entities already within the National Food Group, i.e. cereals, cereal processing, potato processing, sugar production and sugar production, it is necessary to have such operators. processing of soft or hard fruit or processing of meat. In order to take such entities, measures are needed, the National Agricultural Support Centre has developed an appropriate raise and the Minister responsible for Agriculture wants to benefit from this surplus. And thanks to the government that under the around budget law it does not consume this surplus, it does not spend it for other purposes, only this state budget is so mobile that it will allow it to spend this surplus only and exclusively on the activities of those 4 government departments that are engaged in agriculture in Poland. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u29	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was wrong at the time, trying to ask this question, because I did not see a connection with organic farming, and this is just a completely different law. I ignore the fact that there is a legislative objection to some sort of irregularity, the unconstitutionality of the introduction. Thank you for the explanation you gave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u31	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Durlak, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Szwed submitted their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the manner in which the lowest basic salary is determined for certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 725 and the report of the Commission In print No 725 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present the report of the committee which had its meeting on 8 June, which was yesterday. It concerns a law adopted by the Sejm on 26 May to amend the Law on how to determine the lowest basic remuneration of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. This is a very important and very important law because it raises the remuneration in all groups that provide medical services to citizens. The beginning of the bill was the meeting of the Tripartite Health Protection Team, which decided to do so on 5 November, and this is the agreement of all the participants of this Tripartite Health Protection Team that increases will be made, which is precisely in this submission. The problem is that the situation has changed dramatically since 5 November 2021. We are dealing with enormous inflation, which causes money to lose value, and yesterday again the interest rates have been raised. So people who work in health care, of course, also people who work in all other sectors, at the moment have to pay huge instalments, because most of them unfortunately have received credits. This means that the introduction of the submission, which is currently being proposed, will actually not be felt by these people. It would have been a great success if it had been converted, I don't know, after November 6. But it didn't. The Senate Health Commission proposes 19 amendments. These amendments concern different cases. After the meeting of the Sejm, practically all medical environments came to us, doctors' union, nurses' union, non-medical workers' union, diagnostics union and pharmacists' union. And that's where the 19 amendments came from. In my opinion, they are all very important and very necessary, but the most important is the amendment that raises the level of remuneration agreed in the work of this tripartite team, raising evenly and everyone Assuming that inflation and interest rate increases had the same effect on all occupational groups. Well, the ones who earn the least will suffer the most. These amendments consist in the fact that for each of the groups described in the annex which is to this law This is the only annex, the law is not long, a factor of 0,25 is added. That gives us a pretty big growth. And so on. In point 1, regarding doctors, this is going to be an increase from 1.45 to 1.7. The State has this annex in its documents. I would also like to say that the legislator stressed this when talking about the law The law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some of the staff of the medical entities, and in fact of all the workers, because they are all placed there, sets out how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals and basic workers other than medical professionals and those employed in medical entities, taking into account the type of work carried out and how to achieve the lowest basic salary. In the framework of this novel, the concept of "trainee" and "resident" was introduced in the Act. The intern is a doctor and a dentist who has a post-graduate internship... There is an amendment in this regard, because the act simply states the interns. Well, we don't know what kind of intern he is, he could be from another field... Although there's a hyphen then and it's added that it's a doctor or a dentist. The amendment concerns the introduction of the words "intern doctor" and "resident doctor," which is the amendment by Senator Gorgon-Komor. I would like to say that there was quite a lively discussion at the committee meeting and that all the senators were actually speaking. The greatest controversy and questions to the Minister concerned money. The cost of this submission is PLN 7.2 billion without taking into account this ratio of 0.25. There's a question for the Minister... I'm not gonna give you a heads-up here, I'm just gonna say this was the committee meeting. The Minister will probably say it himself in a moment. This bill is really good, only that it takes 19 amendments to make it really a success, such a tip-top in order to improve the state of health protection that is in the situation, Ladies and gentlemen, very difficult. But I'm going back to the finance issue. This 7.2 billion is supposed to come from the 7 percent growth that the National Health Fund has. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case at the moment, Senator Necessary spoke about it, more senators spoke about it, and I'm sure the senators will talk about it in the discussion. That we have 17 billion in debt hospitals, that we have invaluable, i.e. not corrected, valuation of medical benefits... Medical services include diagnostics, treatment, as well as wages, everything about the patient. I imagined it this way, I can express my opinion, which I also expressed at the committee meeting. That these measures... Because it was said that, as the Minister said in his speech, and only then in response did he straighten out that it was not additional resources. I thought the government was transferring an additional 7 billion PLN to the National Health Fund, marked, for salaries and directors of medical units from this source are collecting money. And that it doesn't affect the valuation of medical benefits in the sense that it's like money instead of those 7% to improve the quality of medical services, improve diagnostics, improve treatment, be redirected to the right and necessary goal. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the troops are closing down. I asked that question yesterday at the committee meeting. I am also saying this as part of the report and I hope that Minister Bromber will respond to it. Well, let's say, in recent times, how many branches have been closed down. Because in Lower Silesia, two are currently fighting for survival. That's when I didn't get the answer. With the second raise, which is 0.25, which is the Senate amendments that I consider necessary... If in general health care, and in fact its employees, are to feel this raise, then another 7 billion PLN is needed. And maybe the government will move the billions, because we're dealing with right now. And that was also said at the committee meeting. With a fairly large distribution of money, cheques are handed out in villages and towns. And maybe you'd have to bend over. And this was said at the committee's meeting many times and by many people. Over the fate of the sick. Because, in fact, if the medical staff is paid as it is paid at the moment, we're going to have to deal with even more closed branches, increasing queues. This is because alone, even a beautiful building, drugs alone can't cure a patient, without medical personnel, from the beginning to the end. But the most important is the medical staff. I say it with all due respect. Because without non-medical work, but without doctors and nurses who control treatment, well, it's not gonna work. Maybe I won't read... I think you've read the report you have in print 725 A. And here you have all 19 amendments. The Commission proposes that And she voted unanimously. The adoption of this law, together with the amendments. Not all amendments Because the amendments were put to the vote, they got 100%. support, but all at the end have been adopted by the Senate Health Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u33	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u34	Senator, I have a question. You've already taken part in this. I'm interested in... Because we're talking about finance. Of course, the debate on finance in the context of medical professions is very important, but this is not the only problem that affects the environment. As the esteemed senator said, hospitals are closing down in many places, because they're just going to walk away from these hospitals. I'm not just talking about doctors, I'm talking about nurses, I'm talking about all the employees of the system who work together. In the course of the discussion at the Health Committee, was the subject taken by the Minister, how will this law translate into the detention of medical personnel in the hospital sector? Did the Minister give us that information? Because the senator said that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u35	I'll give you a short answer: no. We didn't get that kind of data. Maybe the Minister will say that in a minute. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Bladder, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator: was there any mention at the committee's meeting of the hospital administration staff?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u38	Of course. That's what they're called. non-medical personnel. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] There was a speech, and they're the same with the raise. And we, as the Senate committee, have made this proposal by a 0.25 rate for these workers, just like the other groups. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u39	Thank you. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question in the context of this report that you have presented. Because for this amendment, a positive amendment for health care, we spend 7.2 billion PLN. You pointed out, speaking of these amendments, that this is another 7 billion zlotys that would be destined for... [[About. I didn't count it as much as the Minister did.]] But you marked it. I would like to ask whether the sources of funding are indicated for these amendments directly. Because you suggested that local governments are being handed over some checks right now. Am I to understand that the state is proposing that local governments take the money that the government is using as part of the Polish Government to invest... [[God forbid!]] ...and finance health care? Well, because you said here that checks are being handed out now. So what's the source of funding for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u41	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u42	I'll tell you what. It was absolutely not about taking from anyone what was given away, but about giving away checks, generally about big financial resources. If we're giving gifts to someone, it means we've got money from here... If we've got them from here, I'd expect... First of all, the first 7 billion, PLN 7.2 billion, the money that Minister Bromber spoke about and will talk about in a moment, did not influence anywhere. The government did not give these 7 billion zlotys. If I'm wrong, the Minister is about to correct it. It's in the same money that was supposed to be for the extension of hospitals, for the improvement of patients' existence, for saving their lives, for better diagnostics, for better treatment. And the other PLN 7.2 billion... if it's so good that we can spend money right and left that there's a lot of money And so you can conclude from what's going on right now. I'm the one who thinks... I know, because the Minister said that this bill is so important, and the government is kind of aware that health care is in the situation it's in. If you underestimate this staff, which means you won't find those 7 billion... Because I wouldn't finance it the way it's thought, because it's not an extra $7 billion. In fact, 14 billion zlotys are needed, perhaps with a hook. I think that maybe Minister Bromber has calculated this amendment more precisely on this 0,25, he knows how much it is. In my opinion, this is about PLN 7 billion. So that I had this idea, not that someone, God forbid, would take something that they had already given them, or even take away what someone had received. That wasn't at the committee meeting at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u43	Thank you. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] You can ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u44	So, as I understand it, these 19 amendments do not have the sources of funding indicated? Because, of course, I don't deny the need for health support, and the government doesn't deny it either. And that's why the 7.2 billion zlotys for the raises. But I understand that in the case of these 19 amendments there are no indicated sources of funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u45	That is, not 19 amendments to finance, only 10 amendments to finance, and there is no indication of the source. The source is government money, not the National Health Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u46	Thank you. Senator Malecka-Libera. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, senator of the rapporteur. Namely, my question is this. The salaries that we are currently talking about are just one of the elements that are extremely needed to rebuild the whole health system. We've talked about this a number of times. The financing of the whole system through, above all, the valuation of benefits is essential, medical staff is another subject, but also the availability of health benefits. I have a question. Does this proposed wage law in any way also exploit the potential of private entities that should feed the entire health system? And do those provisions that are in this law guarantee partnership in public-private entities?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u48	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u49	Thank you, Senator. That was mentioned at the committee meeting. That's not enough. Private hospital representation came forward. There's a very big problem, they asked for amendments on this. Because many private entities have no contracts at all with the National Health Fund and currently salaries in these units are different than in public, they are often higher. Adding this indicator will keep the private market going. Unfortunately, the amendments they asked for, according to our legislator And I'm sure that's the way it is, they'd run beyond the matter of the bill. Therefore, it will be proposed to submit a draft law to the Senate Health Commission, which will include those amendments which were suggested by the OPP, by private employers. They play a very important role in the market. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, even in private units, there are gigantic queues. It can be said that not only public health services are wobbling at the moment. Well, it's not like it was before, when you could call, make a private appointment with a specialist or a primary health care doctor and have this appointment immediately. There are also queues for private hospitals. So that this certainly requires an urgent improvement so that this law does not hit the private sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u50	Thank you very much. Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u51	Dear Senator, I have such a brief question: did the Minister indicate the sources of funding for this bill at the committee meeting? The senator asked us about our amendments, but I would like to know the specific sources from which this bill's novel will be financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u53	I'll tell you how I do it. I got it. Well, I guess most of us senators didn't think it was a source of funding. Because if the National Health Fund is indicated, which is, as I said, intended for diagnostics, for treatment, for all this, also for hospitals that have 17 billion zlotys of debt... If I'm wrong, Minister, correct me. Besides, you're about to have a voice. Please correct me, but you didn't really tell us at the committee meeting where these 7 billion were taken from and how it was marked that these are the funds for these increases. There was no such answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u54	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would like to ask you that we have full information. Did the State actually try to estimate these costs of additional increases or not? [[Of course.]] What is it? Because right now we have three tables. The first one is the one that is now in force. I'm talking about this annex, of course. The other one's the one the Ministry's proposing. Here are the raises of the order. I'm talking about the coefficient. From 0.04 to a maximum of 0,14. And on those raises of 0.01 or 0.1 ... It depends on how large a group working in health care is. That's what I'm saying about the raises... I'm talking about average. Well, 0.1 is 7 billion, and you want to increase it by an additional 0.25, which is an average of 2.5 times more. And that's supposed to be seven billion. It doesn't really bother me. I'm sure you're the minister... [[But count 0.4 and 1.8 plus 2 with something and 0.3... well, it's about 0.25. That's why the respect that this is going to be about 7 billion.]] How can you add up the coefficients for each group? The coefficients in this table are different for each group. I can quote them, but it's a waste of time. [[You don't have to quote me because I know this table. We've got it in our head.]] And you want to add... [[The highest coefficients relate to those groups which are currently relatively high in terms of salary.]] I'm not questioning this table, I'm questioning the way you calculated the cost of the additional increase you presented here. Again, with an increase from 0.04 for some group to 0.14 for another group... I'm talking about the average, it can't be calculated without the number of employees in a given group. On average, this is 0.1 of this coefficient. That's 7.2 billion. In the case of 0.25, you said 7 billion. If you stick to the proportions, that would be about 20 billion. But I'm ceding it to the Minister here. Ma'am, it's not tense. Well, I'm sorry, of course it can be escalated, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u56	I'm sure it needs to be calculated precisely... [[Exactly.]] ...but it's certainly not 20 billion, because these high ratios in the government submission were for groups that had already had a high salary. Well, that was a big contribution to those 7 billion. Like I said, we didn't have a staff of people on the Health Committee who could calculate it exactly. It's just an estimate that it's around 7 billion. There's got to be another one here to feel that raise at all. And the minister said that actually the government was expecting... and I'm sure it would. After this trialogue meeting, people were very pleased that there were increases, but they're not anymore. Mr. Senator, we've all been asked to correct this. It's not like we made it up from pear or parsley. Every professional group asked for it, we have letters on it. Enough of that, the unionists from all the professional groups came in and said that this increase on November 5th... It wasn't Mr Bromber's fault, but inflation, feet... It's all just drowned, it's gone. [[Thank you.]] That's what all the groups said.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u57	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Bromber like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Wish.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, senator, for pointing out that this is an important bill, a bill of good. This law will increase the guaranteed lowest salaries of medical and non-medical workers in the framework of the basic activity, namely those who participate in the benefit process, on 1 July this year. Depending on the group, this will increase the guaranteed basic salary from 17% to 41%. The average lowest basic salary will increase by 30%. The senator said something about feelings. You asked if the employees would feel it. I will cite examples of wage increases in the lowest basic salary. Doctor specialist 2nd degree increase by 1 thousand 441 zł; specialist doctor 1st degree increase by more than 2 thousand zł; master of nursing, physiotherapy, pharmacist, laboratory diagnostics with specialization of 1 thousand 827 zł; master of pharmacist, physiotherapist, laboratory diagnostics, nurse, psychology without specialization, increase by 1 thousand 590 zł; paramedic, nurse with an average education of 1 thousand 550 zł; health care professional, medical technician with an average education increase by more than 1 thousand zł; paramedic, salary increase by more than 600 zł. That's the real answer to the question whether employees will feel it. As the senator has already pointed out here, this discussion of the increase in minimum wage has been going on for several months. The project presented is the essence of these activities, of these talks, mainly in the forum of the tripartite team, where, as the senator mentioned, on 5 November a common position was adopted between the union, employers and the government party. The bill goes against the demands that arose during talks with the OCP. The issue of increases was the topic of talks with individual professional authorities. The essence of the law is also that agreement has been reached as a result of a very broad dialogue. It's a value in itself. I would like to remind you that the law was passed by the Sejm with only one vote against, and at the meeting of the Sejm committee 1 Member abstained. Importantly, representatives of professional authorities, trade union representatives and employers took the floor during the meeting of the Sejm Committee. There has been a wide debate, a broad discussion on this important element, which is the increase in the minimum wage. Of course, this way we appreciate experience, appreciate education and appreciate skills. We show that people's work is important to us. The question was whether this increase in wages would affect the situation in the labour market, the situation concerning individual medical professions. This is one of the elements. Yes, by increasing wages, we say that we appreciate experience, but we also show young people that it is worth studying medically, that it is worth working in the health sector. This is an important element, but, as I said, only one of the elements, because in addition we strengthen the competences, we strengthen the skills of people working in medical professions. We presented a package of solutions, a package for young people, in terms of starting young people to work. I'm sure that's how we make the medical profession more attractive. As for issues related to... as to whether these are additional or non-additional measures and the indication of sources, I am referring you to the eighth page of the impact assessment of the regulation. Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to quote a passage. All the financial implications of the Act in terms of both budgetary and non-budget expenditure The NFZ will be secured within the annual expenditure limits for the financing of the health tasks referred to in Article. 131c Act on healthcare provision. That's the reference to 7%. GDP. These 7% GDP, as I explained at the committee meeting, relates broadly to health expenditure. Not only to finance health care services, but also to protect health. In this respect, we point to a specific source of funding. As I said, thank you for the discussion, thank you for saying good, important. I ask the Senate to adopt the bill in a version approved by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u59	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have short questions. You've already basically responded to the first one, although perhaps inconclusively. I'd like to know exactly how this bill will translate into a tragic situation right now. In many places county hospitals close, branches close, mostly interns, mostly conservative units, which may not have highly paid procedures, but are needed by patients. I think that appreciating the lower medical staff is indeed very important in this bill. Second question. I have tabled an amendment and I very much thank the senators, including the PiS senators, for voting for it at the committee meeting. The amendment refers to the fact that in the law, this is an amendment which does not regulate any finances I'm asking you to. And I read the question. Can you define who the intern doctor is and who the resident is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u61	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u62	Senator, I'm referring you to the term dictionary. Art. 1 paragraph 1: An intern doctor and dental practitioner having a post-graduate internship as referred to in the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. Here you go, in the act these 2 definitions are quoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u63	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Mateck.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you say that the source of funding for these increases is 7%. GDP, which is in one of the entries in the Polish Lad. Meanwhile, 6% GDP will not be reached until 2023 and 7%, as announced by the government. GDP only in 2027. So what is the real, real source of funding? So what is the real guarantee of these increases from the sources you pointed out? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u65	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u66	Mrs. Senator, I cited an article in the Health Services Act that is now referring to this mechanism. By quoting this article, I was talking about a mechanism. This is a mechanism that guarantees a separate part of health care measures. And as part of this mechanism... Let's talk more about the mechanism than the formal legal record. Under this mechanism, these measures, PLN 7.2 billion of this mechanism, will be used to increase the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u67	Thank you. Mr. Senator Chelya.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, there was information that the Ministry of Health was planning to resign from post-graduate internships for the medical faculty, which would increase the supply of medical staff twice in the first year. At what stage are these plans? Are they being implemented? If so, when are you planning on doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u70	Mr Senator, in terms of pre-diplomatic and post-graduate education, we are actually doing a lot of work in this area. E.g. What we are focusing on right now is the practicalization of medical and dental education. We have already developed a new design of medical and dental standards. And the essence of these changes is the practicalization of studies. We want to introduce a mandatory practical exam, shift the burden from just providing knowledge to skills and competences. As far as pre-graduate education is concerned, this is what we are focusing on right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u71	Thank you. Senator Malecka-Libera. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I don't ask the question.]] Senator Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have asked the Senator rapporteur a question about the administration, and I will come back to the subject a little bit more. Will this regulation, which is announced, reduce the pay gap between medical and non-medical groups? I am thinking here of accountants, staff in hospitals who are very complaining that regulations are going in the right direction and medical workers have already gained and will gain, but this may not reduce differences, but also increase differences. Could you tell the Minister something about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u73	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u74	Senator, the law in essence concerns medical and non-medical workers, as I said, basic activities, i.e. those workers who directly participate in the provision of health care services. This is the subject matter of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u75	Thank you. Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is a very positive bill. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the government cares so well for health care and that there is money for increases. I'd like to ask. 'Cause I'm on the council of the county hospital. "What will be the procedure for allocating funds for these increases for individual healthcare providers, for individual hospitals?" As a matter of fact, since July hospitals will have to increase their salaries. The Minister spoke about the support mechanism and I would like to ask what the procedure for supporting individual hospitals will be like.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u77	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u78	Mr. Senator, as to how we distribute resources, in the impact assessment, we have identified an exemplary solution based on the experience we have. This law will equip the new powers of the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. Through these records... Once the law comes into force, we will translate all of this into practically and in detail the rules for the allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u79	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. First: what can be the estimated cost of the increase proposed by the committee? I'm asking for a coefficient of 0,25. How much is that going to be in billions of zlotys? And second question. You told the Minister that this was some kind of compromise made in the trialogue. Whether there were so far-reaching expectations at the meetings of this team, or whether they were, for example, That's what the demands are?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u81	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u82	Mr. Senator, we have made some respect for these proposals at cost level for the NFZ. According to our estimates, this would increase to more than 13 billion, but there is one more important thing here. We're talking about 7.2 billion just for the second half of the year. So if someone's talking about 13 and 14 billion, they're just talking about the second half of the year, so that's multiplied by 2. That's important too, I'm talking about scale. We're talking about 7.2 billion for the second half of the year. Of course, when it comes to reaching a compromise, it is always at the starting point that the parties have different expectations. Yes? And it is the essence, the value of dialogue, not only, but especially in the forum of the tripartite team, that compromise solutions are achieved, on the one hand, meeting the expectations of the social side, employers, and, on the other hand, confronting the possibilities of public finances.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u83	Thank you. Senator Necessary. [[Thank you very much...]] Turn on the mike. [[I don't have a card.]] Good. This is Senator Tobiszowska and then Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister, I would like to take advantage of your presence here and ask you the following question. The National Drug Institute, the NIL, has been carrying out tasks entrusted to it by the Minister of Health in the field of the control of medicinal products for almost 70 years. Are there any discussions on it, or is it to be eliminated or taken over by another organization, another entity? Mr. Marshal, I would like a written reply and an oral reply now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u85	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u86	Senator, this question is probably related to the discussion that has already been initiated on the issue of the pionization of the pharmaceutical inspector. I think that question was asked on this canvas. If you don't mind, we'll have a more detailed written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u87	Thank you, Minister. Senator Necessary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u88	Thank you very much. I'll refer to Senator Bladder's question. The Minister replied that the law does not regulate the remuneration of non-medical workers. That's not exactly the case, because art. 5 says that in agreement or order, the Director, the President or someone who manages the hospital lays down rules for increasing the remuneration of the person employed in the context of the employment relationship in a medical entity that does not perform a medical profession, so that the remuneration is I will not read the whole rule, I will read the last point 3 of this article taking into account the remuneration corresponding to the corresponding average wage increase in the given entity during the fixed period. So now that about 30% of the increase will be received by medical workers, as the Ministry determines, non-medical workers should also achieve about this increase, according to this provision, by agreement or in some other way, e.g. Orders. Is the Ministry going to hand over some money to hospitals because it obliges them to raise the remuneration of non-medical workers in an appropriate way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u90	Senator, I remember answering this question yesterday in the committee pointing to this issue of some flexibility in management. Because this subject also appears repeatedly in the discussion, as far as we should regulate formally, and as far as we should leave the freedom to manage. In this record, which you quote, it says in the form of an agreement or an order. This is the form... Well, the manager can choose. It doesn't say anywhere in this bill that these indicators are translated into indicators... I stressed this today that the subject-matter of this law covers medical and non-medical workers of the basic activity, i.e. those workers who are involved in the process of providing health care services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u91	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, can I still do this?]] There you go, Mr. Senator. [[I'd like to ask you one more question.]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u92	Minister, I know there may be an agreement or an order. My question was whether the Ministry would in any way reimburse this increase, which would be taken into account in a manner appropriate to the increase... Because that's how you write in the rule that this agreement is supposed to include an adequate increase for non-medical workers. My question was whether hospitals would receive any funding after negotiating this agreement with the trade unions or after implementing the order, flexibly. As the Minister said, the Director will determine something, maybe it will be less, maybe more than for these medical workers, it will be a matter of this agreement. But will hospitals receive any funding for these increases if they are included in the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u93	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u94	The only space for this type of activity is the issue of revaluation. This valuation change... We also talked about this extensively in the Committee on Health, and we talked about those valuations that have already taken place before us. Let me remind you that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification has a valuation plan every time, and I also refer it back to this plan. The plan for the valuation of benefits for the following year will be approved on days. So that the issue of revaluation is the source and the area of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u95	Thank you. Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u96	I have a question for you. Could the honourable Minister tell me what is the percentage of the cost of medical and administrative staff's salaries in the general government revenue of independent public health establishments in Poland? Is that a big or small indicator? And will this bill affect this indicator? And what does it look like with other countries of the European Union? And is there anything you're going to do to improve this indicator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u97	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u98	Senator, there are various analyses in this area, analysis of the cost structure of individual medicinal products. Depending on the analysis, there are hospitals where this level of pay is... I mean, foreign wages and services, because in these 2 categories you have to consider it, that's about 70%. but there are also hospitals that have 50, 60% There are also hospitals that have a higher percentage. I'm just stating the fact here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u99	Thank you. You're welcome. You'd like to ask. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u100	Thank you for your answer, of course. I also took this data from the Statistical Bulletin of the Minister of Health of 2021. These are the indicators that EU countries use and need to be addressed. You didn't answer my question as to whether the bill we're investigating today would affect this indicator, the average one. Because there is probably an average in Poland, according to the Minister of Health it is and is announced in the statistical bulletin of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u101	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u102	Senator, this is also a matter of... Cost structure, analysis of this cost structure, freedom to shape this cost structure After all, it is the responsibility of the director, the head of the hospital. Forgive me, but it's hard as it is to refer to competences that are typically management powers. We can, as the senator rightly pointed out, say a certain fact, try to assess these trends, but in my view, shaping the cost structure is a matter of competence only and exclusively management.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u103	Thank you. Senator Tobiszowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u104	I'd just like to ask the Minister... [[You're welcome.]] ...to ask, Mr. Marshal, to take into account issues such as quality checks, their effectiveness and safety of medicinal products in the context of the possible liquidation of this institute or the taking over of it by another entity. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: In response to this question, yes?]] Yeah, yeah, I talk about that question all the time. You said nothing more about verticalization, so I would ask that this answer be in this context as well. If it was meant to be closed, to be wound up... Well, we're also talking about the scope of monitoring hospital infections and the protection of antibiotics, which requires years of learning, experience at this level. Also, because I'm so interested in this subject... NIL also responds to law enforcement needs I would also ask for an answer in this context, because it prepares expert opinions and opinions for cases for example. falsifying medicines, etc. So if it were to be closed down or taken over by another unit, who exactly would do this? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u105	I'll try to get that answer to your questions. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u106	Thank you. Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Dorota Tobiszowska. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u107	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Dear Minister, Well, in my opinion, as a doctor, this law is a disgraceful title, because we're talking about the lowest salary again. As you can see, there's a lot of controversy about this because everyone in hospitals, in health care units, creates a team that cares about a sick patient. In fact, as if the doctors themselves were working, the unit wouldn't function, because we need nurses, we need diagnes, the pandemic pointed it out. We're at a time when we should rebuild after the pandemic. That is why we were talking about the Fund for Reconstruction, where health was very important. I also regret the fact that the money so much expected to be renewed after the pandemic... It's not just about wages, it's also about working conditions. Well, so-called. KPOs we have been proceding for so long and we cannot reach consensus. And really health care needs a financial injection and not just a financial injection. I'd like to look at this bill through the Minister's eyes, and I've been trying to do it these two days. Some of my doubts have been answered by the Minister. But I think you're doing some sort of election program. 'Cause it's 7%. GDP was earmarked for increases. Very well-looking tables showing if you're upping something. I disagree on the proportion, but I won't discuss it here because I don't want to be accused of lobbying for my environment. I'm more concerned about what's going on in the field. Hospitals are not only clinics, but also county hospitals that provide real help to patients. Not so long ago, because 3 days ago, I held meetings in my region of Wadowice, Żywiecczyn, Podbeskid And I regret to see Polish hospitalization die, it is Polish hospitalization, which is not fully appreciated. Indeed, on November 5th, when there was a meeting of the trilateral committee, perhaps this was the answer to the expectations of this environment, but today, when we have a crazy cost, inflation, in fact the financial realities of this law have changed. But I think you can... And I think that's the context of this whole situation, that we can put inflation on Putin and COVID, and that's a very good explanation. Nevertheless, I would also like to look at this bill through the eyes of the doctors. What do the medics think? Doctors think this: raise in medical professions so-called. The medical staff is minimal, because we're a very good earning group anyway. Of course, we have seen in the media that doctors are very wealthy people who sometimes work 300 hours a week, pay high bills if they work on a contract, and when it comes to employment contracts, they also earn the best. But what I'm trying to say is that in county hospitals and hospitals in the region, it's not like you sometimes say there are big names. Doctors work there at the lowest rate, which is 30 PLN per hour. And only working on shifts, working over dimensional working time, often saving the situation and e.g. On duty day after day, because they signed an opt-out clause, they just make a little bit more money. But I don't want to talk about these finances anymore, because maybe it's not really important, because it's basically just that maybe it's time to talk about changing the system. This is where you said the PiS government is going to reform higher education in medical fields and you want to get rid of your internship. There's been a moment in ours, so to speak, medical life, that this internship wasn't there. I know that in such a situation more doctors can be introduced into the system who can do their job, but think about it unless you shorten your medical studies and the last year of college will be an internship year. However, I am in favour of a higher wage for a better job. value-based healthcare, a very popular model in other European countries. And I think that's something to think about. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of small resources for health protection in Poland, the system should be changed so that it is more effective. Continuing pouring money into a system that doesn't work when it comes to treatment is unnecessary. It is important to consider how to make better use of these measures. Standard health systems in the world are characterised by the aim of maximising the number of health benefits, taking into account limited resources. 'Cause it's not like everything's okay, and we're not okay. In general, medical care is very costly, because medicine is developing very much in terms of innovation, new drug therapies. And since the Constitution guarantees medical care at every stage of our treatment, we should treat all diseases according to guidelines, with medical standards also in our country. That is why I will vote in favour of this law, along with the amendments. I'm glad other medical professions, not just doctors, have these raises. As for the proportions, I disagree. And once again, I ask the Minister to lean on my amendment, because it is not costly. And, I think, she just regulates... The point is not to depreciate this intern and resident who's on the verge of a career. And we know what HR problems we are dealing with, and we want to keep these people in Poland. Sometimes that's important too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u108	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a law that increases the basic salary in health care. Minister Bromber did a good job because he gathered all the trade unions, talked to all the groups, set up some increases with them. And it seemed that the effect would be a great success. If you take into account what happened in the meantime, since November 5th, has happened with the finances of all Poles and Poles, then you can say that this success will not be. Because people won't think about what would have happened if there wasn't a raise. She'll be consumed by inflation. At petrol stations, in shops, as well as in payment of instalments I mean, it's just gonna go unnoticed. But this is probably also the time, as my previous speaker said, to think about how to improve the health care situation, which is now, you might say, a little confusion with confusion. Why? Well, the whole thing is a colossal rock on clay legs, whose feet or toes fall off. Whatever you do, it's falling apart. The troops are closing down. There's no fluidity, no harmony, no sense of patient safety. For me, as a doctor, practice after 47 years of work, the most important thing is the well-being of the patient. Everything is important, but in order for the patient's well-being to be properly taken care of, there must be excellent health pay, because without people even shifted the most resources, built the most beautiful hospitals... It's not like walls or equipment can cure a man. Maybe someday they'll do it to computers, but it's not the time yet. Senator Gorgon-Komor started talking about something, but I don't think she's finished out of courtesy. But maybe I'll say it because I think the same thing. Not because I'm a doctor, I'm retired right now, so I'm not talking about myself. The most important part of health care is the doctor and nurse, and actually the doctor, because it's in his head that is the patient's treatment plan, is the diagnostic design, is the plan, what to do with it. These are the skills that have been the result of many years, hence a very valuable group are doctors and trained nurses, who have specializations, nurses who have completed their studies, and doctors who are experienced, educated, often very recognized in the countries of the European Union, but actually all over the world. Why did I say there was a mix-up? Because there are a lot of units that take up high deposits in Europe that do transplants of all organs. We can transplant anything except the brain. And it's done in Poland. It is now being done, even though the health care funds, in my opinion, are absolutely too small, also for health pay. I'm counting on you to act in such a way that you will find the 14 billion a year, or even twice as much, to support health care. It's not because people live well, it's because sick people don't lose their lives in driveways, so they don't wait in giant queues, so they don't wait three years to visit an endocrinologist. All of this requires proper reorganization of the healthcare system. Above all, this would give the Ministry of Health great comfort if it had much greater resources for all changes and for its work. These amendments, which have been tabled, will improve this situation a little bit, so I hope that the Senate, like the Senate Health Commission, will unanimously adopt this amendment act. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I simply cannot believe that you are making this law on minimum wages such a standard, such an important law, which on the one hand is to improve the whole health system, to appreciate competence, but above all you call it an investment in human capital. It's just a minimum wage bill, about their growth, about what was agreed and discussed six months ago in a completely different reality. Now inflation consumes everything that was negotiated last November. So can this really be the basis for saying that this is a law that will improve the health care system, which will guarantee the retention of medical personnel, which will encourage students to study here, but above all to stay here? The first most important thing is that what is said almost every day about this bill, that it is extra money, an additional 7 billion on wages, is obviously not true. It's not extra money. An extra amount of money would be if you brought a bill that says you're taking money, for example. to the Central Communication Port, which is a misfire, and you pass it on to health care. That would be extra money. Here we are talking about 7 billion, which are guaranteed by the law on increasing health funding gradually to 7%, and this is not extra money. This is the money that has already been legally guaranteed health care. If we now mark up some of this money and transfer it to pay, it will mean that we will also reduce the level of funds that are guaranteed for health benefits. Well, there's no other way. So the first myth has been overthrown. That's not extra money. It's just marked money. How will they be marked? That's what we don't know. We don't know that either. We do not know whether it will be the granting of money for a person employed by the PESEL number or, as the Minister has repeated several times today, through the valuation of medical benefits. If we're going to talk about an increase in the valuation of medical benefits, we need to talk about the perspective of years. After all, AOTMIT only acquires competences, it develops the possibilities to value benefits in the guaranteed basket. If the Act enters into force on 1 July and AOTMIT is just beginning to work on the valuation of benefits, how will the distribution of these funds take place? The Minister could not answer that question. When I asked how these measures would be distributed, I heard this sentence, and I quote: the distribution formula has not been established. So we disprove the second myth. Since it is as you say, we do not know how these measures will be distributed How is this bill prepared, how will it be implemented from 1 July? Come on, the matter of administrative staff, already discussed here. This is a very important topic. The hospital cannot exist without administrative support. The head of the director is how to manage and guarantee an average of 30% also to secure increases for administrative staff. That'll be the principal's problem. But where's the principal supposed to get that money? Again with the increased valuation of medical benefits. But when will this valuation be for which benefits? You said, Minister, that the plan for the valuation of benefits will only be adopted. So we're really talking about the future, about the years to come, very poorly defined. Here's another thing. No, we're devising this bill, the point after point is for employees who are on contracts. Please tell us how the Director is supposed to secure the money for these employees if the money goes on the path of the National Health Fund. How? How is it supposed to ensure that all employees are paid more so that doctors and employees want to stay in the branches, do not leave them, and thus the branches are closed and hospitals are having problems serving patients who are being treated there? And another thing is: private hospitals, private and public institutions. This is a law that once again divides this environment. Minister, as Minister of Health, you should ensure that all the possibilities, all the means are used to increase the availability of health services especially now, after the pandemic. However, you treat private facilities as a necessary evil. It is visible in this law, where among others. You order institutions, including private ones, to provide information, which is absolutely prohibited under the GDPR Act. In addition, private institutions do not have the financial means to increase salaries guaranteed. Why? Because they don't have a contract with the National Health Fund. So they have to make this money out of their own budgets, out of their own business plans. Is this supposed to be a management policy for all institutions that can ensure better access to medical services? Oh, no. There's still a conflict. This issue of turning one against the other is really very, very visible in health care everywhere. That's another line. I'm gonna go back to the hospital directors' problems again. How are they supposed to plan and develop their facilities when all the decisions are always on the directors without showing the source of funding? That's not good enough. Over the past year, we have been discussing the modernisation of hospitals, the county hospitals are now facing an incredible financial crisis, and yet the only or most important idea in this bill was the idea of centralising hospitals, dividing these hospitals and categorizing them according to the financial results. We've been discussing this all year. And right now it turns out that the Ministry of Health is pulling out of this project. So the directors are asking us what's next with the county hospitals, which are no longer in debt for 17 billion, but, as you calculate, for about 20 billion. Will they at this point be a guarantee of health safety? Oh, no. There's no bill designed. Neither does the Health Quality Act. There's no clinical trial bill either. So, is this the only law, the minimum wage bill? With minimal growth, which was still an increase in November, and now it has been consumed by inflation The whole panacea for health care? Is that the only idea? Young Doctors Another topic that the Minister often talks about. I would like to ask the Minister to answer in writing what regulations, which laws have been issued to improve the fate of young doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First something positive, first. These minimum wage regulations are such an erasing of an over-the-counter collective labour agreement, at least to some extent, in terms of remuneration, and in part. But there is something, and it's a move in the right direction, because... it works in many countries. Of course, labour laws and so on, and there are indicators. And doctors, nurses, etc., all the staff, they're aware of how much they're gonna make. It's a pretty good step, though very small. There's also a salary increase here, and it's a good thing it's going to be a salary increase. And another success of the ministry: there are no major social protests. It's a success, too. And they're all positive, they're still hard to find. The salaries of specialist doctors are below one-and-a-half of the national average and nurses below the national average. It's a proposition. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister used these terms: we appreciate, invest in human capital, show the perspective for those who want to study. Minister, study medicine for six years, then do an internship, then do at least five years of specialization. often more because it's hard to get into your dream specialty And finally earning one and a half national average, that's the dream perspective that's gonna attract so many people to this profession? The Minister lives in some other world. Also young girls who are to study nursing and choose this difficult profession, which means separation from the family, which means night shifts, constant presence with the patient, observing human suffering, etc., etc... And there's a little above average. This is the perspective, this is appreciation, investing in people? In other countries, they look at it differently, Minister, and they look at it differently and I suggest they look at it differently. As the Ministry of Health, you have persuaded the Law and Justice, and I will say this to your side. It's good in health care. President Kaczyński during your deliberations, your convention said: we handled the epidemic well because people on the streets did not die. Someone told him it was a success. Minister, there are 120,000 unnecessary deaths. A lot more than in countries where medicine is advanced, for example. in Germany, where half the people died. And that's among those oversized deaths. The Minister explains that Poles are responsible for the fact that patients are responsible for dying because they are ill-healthed because they eat badly because they work in the wrong way. Well, they work too hard because it's known that in Poland, to earn money, you have to work a lot. And it's probably because people have died, not the wrong system, not the lack of adequate resources at the beginning of the epidemic, etc., etc. There was a lack of good vaccination action that would make us actually inoculate to a greater extent. But that's not it. You blamed the Poles, and you are satisfied with the system. That's why you think it's okay and this bill will make things better. Minister, this bill covers about 18,000 doctors working in employment, because the rest of them have already gone to contracts. I think it's good for the ministry, because contracts work 300 hours, 350 hours, they're not covered by labour law, they don't have vacations, and when they get laid off, they get some small money from the Social Security Office, etc., there's no briefings, they're cheap at all, and they work a lot. And that's good. But it's not a perspective, it's not something that attracts young people. Now young people are also waiting for working conditions, protection, labour rights. If they're gonna make less than one and a half national average here, they're gonna look for those better working conditions abroad. Once again, you're gonna get doctors to either work contracts or they're gonna go abroad, and that's why the generation replacement that could happen by increasing the number of students at medical schools... This will now be ruined by just such solutions, not by other solutions. I'm not talking about nurses anymore. There are so many nurses missing, and in the coming years they will be so lacking that you really should appreciate this profession much more, do what you said, really appreciate, invest and show your perspective. You should do it. Don't talk about it, just do it. Of course, doctors work on contracts, where they make a lot more money than these jobs. And that's not what you do at all, you don't only see doctors, but also nurses, this bill doesn't cover salary increases for these contract doctors, contract nurses, other employees. You don't see it at all. And it's really bad. Now, a few words. It's like the principal's. Because the increases will not be fully refunded, because you never take into account checks, jubilee awards, overtime and other pay derivatives, so the increase in these salaries will plunge hospitals, even if it is reasonably well counted from this side, which is included in the bill. You're gonna have to borrow these raises, I mean. First you have to give them, and then the fund will raise the valuation or the contract, and that money will be returned to the hospitals. I'm sure it's gonna be like, in August, you're gonna have to figure out the money at the hospital to be able to make the raises. It's the wrong solution, too, bringing down hospitals. We don't know if it's gonna be an increase in contract or separate money, and I suspect it's gonna be a simple increase in contract that's gonna be enough for all hospital employees, including non-medical workers. They've been mentioned here before. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, these people are very needed, hospitals can't work without them. You assure them, in a way, you give them... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'm disturbing you. [[Senators, please...]] You're sitting close. Maybe somewhere further... [[Excuse me, sir.]] No, no, it's okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I get it, I get it, well, I'm not surprised. Anyway, non-medical workers are very much needed, Mr. Marshal, in hospitals, we certainly agree here, and it would be good if we had some money for raises for them too. But they're not even noticed by the Ministry. It's advisable for the director to talk to them, but what's he supposed to give them? Of which we are to give adequate raises for people who, for example. Do they supply oxygen to the troops or are they electricians? They were so much needed in the pandemic and were also pointed out as heroes, who, although they are not medical workers, had to work at that time, did not go to any remote work, etc. Well, here we don't see that gratitude at all, not that a little bit, but not at all. Now for the next thing. If that were the case, as the Minister just said, we could give them these increases from the increased value of benefits, because these benefits are probably better valued... Well, if that were the case, the NFZ would be collecting data, how many employees there are, how much they make to the accountants, how much they earn, how much they earn from people who contract with the hospital, in order to increase this valuation of benefits in order to take them into account. As far as I know, no one collects such data all over Poland, so it's fiction. You type in a fictional recipe to argue between hospital managers and employees, and you wash your hands and say, "If the director wants, he'll give it to you." Only what you're not talking about anymore. There's a big crisis coming to the hospital. Hospitals during the pandemic period, during the covid funding period, had a little financial impact. Indeed, this year, thanks to the fact that the valuation of benefits was higher, caused the hospital's debt to decline for some time, and they were doing better. But now we are going back to the pre-pandemic situation, to poor funding, to burden hospitals with just increases that are not fully refunded, and to the fact that the staff will be treated again as they were treated before the pandemic, which means that their work will not be appreciated enough. It's very sad that after this pandemic... [[Timer signal]] ...after all, the Pole is not wise after the damage. This is really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! We must remember what we are discussing right now. Because we are discussing a law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities and some other laws. But this is a law that concerns primary care. That's what we need to remember. I think a 30% increase in current inflation isn't that much, but it's a significant amount. I wonder how you see... Because I've been listening to this discussion all along. I have heard about the fact that public entities are treated differently, otherwise private. Show me one private operator who doesn't charge his patients who works for free. Every job gets paid. Either you have a deal with the NFZ, or you take money from a patient who comes in and requires some sort of medical service. We're talking about the lowest salary, but nobody said you could pay more. If this is a good facility with a good director, then the employee always has a chance to get a higher amount. We in this law did not really include other workers working together with those workers who work in primary care. There are plenty of other employees, whether in staff or in cooperating institutions. I think that in the following laws the amendments providing for the lowest wage increases in these groups will be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that this law be adopted without amendments, because this will actually give us the opportunity to introduce these salaries on 1 July. That's why I'm making such a request to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A lot has already come out of my colleagues, the speakers. We all know that health protection is a unique area of our life, a unique task for the government of each country, not only for the government of the Republic of Poland. Health care required, requires and will require ever-increasing costs. Well, we all know that. There is progress in medicine, there are new medicines, new diagnostic possibilities, new technical possibilities, innovations. Today we recognize and can treat various diseases, although it has not been so long since we had such opportunities at all. All I can say is that when I started working at a dialysis station in the 1980s, people over the age of 60 and with associated diseases were disqualified because dialysis was reserved only for young people who had a chance to return after these dialysiss to normal life. Today, fortunately, these problems are already forgotten by doctors who qualify patients for dialysis. It's just one example. We're also dealing with an ageing society. Therefore, we live longer and live to see diseases that we would never have lived to see, because we would have died before. We provide rehabilitation, treatment, palliative treatment, treatment in chronically ill patients today. That's not the way it used to be. There's tremendous progress in oncology. Of course, it's not enough, because we'd like no patient to die of cancer... But we treat them, they live longer and longer, they have relapses and metastases, and we have to deal with all this. Therefore, we must be aware of the costs. And for that matter, ladies and gentlemen... Well, good and bad to have a good memory, and I've been a politician for a long time. I'm from the same group as Senator Sagatowska and Senator Chróścikowski, we've been sitting in the Senate since 1997. The first act, the act, which was a revolution, in preparation for Poland's entry into the European Union, i.e. the law on universal health insurance, and the normalization of our statistical numbers of diseases from the EU... It was a revolutionary act. Then, after the entry into force of this law, into health care, universal health insurance, so-called. Sick money, we had 21 billion zlotys. Of course, that was not enough at the time, but it was 21 billion PLN and we were doing just fine. Today we have a dozen times more and it's not enough. It's just proof of what I said at the beginning: that these costs will always increase. Today we have a law on how to determine the lowest wage. And it would seem that if in such troubled and uncertain times as now for health protection On wages, only on wages PLN 7.2 billion in this six-month period is being allocated, and we should just accept it with applause, with open arms. Because in these difficult times, in times of madness, as you say, inflation, just us, just our environment, we deserve such increases? And what we're talking about here is only the lowest wage, Senator Orzechowska said. That's what the consequences are. For this is the service of years, for this there are incentive allowances, functional allowances, and that is what the jubilee bonuses are charged for. Don't you pay that to your employees? I pay, I'm the director of a small facility, but my employees get it. Even social, for a vacation under a pear tree. It's not like there's any extravagant money, but it's good for money. And let's not think this is just the lowest... 'Cause these payments... And what are the wages, it's worth checking out. And they really aren't hurting us. Of course, we work hard, but are we the only ones working so hard? Are we the only ones who have a responsible job? And the architect who builds bridges and skyscrapers doesn't have a responsible job? What about those who build the subway? And those who die in mines don't have a responsible job? So let's not put this responsibility on the table, because everyone... There used to be a poem like this: everyone serves everyone, tailor serves, ski mask serves and baker serves, we all serve each other. There's no reason to promote this patient's health. Because, I guess, that's not really what this is all about. And I talked about this at the committee meeting yesterday, and today I'm going to repeat it. It really doesn't just touch us. We, as doctors, may pay a little more for gas, but also a lot of people can starve and freeze this winter. Are we aware of this? However, our appetites and claims should be tamed a little bit. And now distribution of funds... That's a lot to talk about. Well, I don't understand my fellow doctors here. It means they don't know the mechanism at all, they don't know what the flow of resources is to a medical institution, how it's shared. And last year, this year, this is a point valuation. At least in AOS it is, but everyone has their own experience, although the state in AOS also works . which is obtained for the benefit data, and this increases. Therefore, for the same work done at the same time, I get more money from the NFZ. And it's up to me, as director, how I'm going to divide this money, so that the team still wants to work, work together, work in friendship, make sense of coming to work, and it's a pleasure that the atmosphere among the staff translates into our attitude towards the patients who come to us for help. So that not from the government, not from the NFZ, no other payer depends on how the director manages to allocate funds in the facility. Why are you so concerned about private facilities? Senator Orzechowska just said that private institutions live either because they're being paid by patients or because they have a contract with the NFZ. And if they have a contract with the NFZ for benefits, then this valuation of benefits that is raised will also be a profit for them. What about the I'm just going to give you one example. Ultrasonographic ultrasound of organs, whether breasts or abdominal cavity No, it depends on what the patient requires. It is valued by the NFZ at about 130 PLN. We get 130 zł for this examination and it has to be divided into a doctor, a nurse, an salon, equipment, everything. In the private office such a study costs PLN 150.200 and this amount is divided into 2, 3 persons, into several people. So why are we talking about private study subsidies? Of course, patients who are wealthier are treated there. I'm sure we wouldn't want a patient who needs this kind of examination to have to loosen his resources and go to his private office. Well, we wouldn't, but we're not enough to treat the sick. And one more reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1999, as we worked on the General Health Insurance Act, our partners were representatives of 2 main unions, NSZZ.Solidarity and OPZZ. What were the characteristics of these relationships? I even miss these times, although pluralism, also in the medical industry, is a sign of time and must be reconciled with it. Today, I'm going to say colloquially, it pulls in its direction, and in the OPZZ and in the Solidarity were both doctors, and nurses, and electrotechnicians, and halls, and everyone else. It may be hard to believe today, but at the time, we really meant the patient's well-being. [[Timer signal]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm almost done. There's a war going on in Ukraine. We really don't know what's gonna happen. It's time to tighten your seat belt, it's everybody's time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit that I never thought that I would be quoting the "Gazeta Wyborcza" from the Senate stand, but I am forced to refer to a few quotes to dispel the doubts that emerged in the previous speeches. I have an interview with Tomasz here recently... I can say it because it's open to the public. This is an interview in the Wyborcza Gazeta with Tomasz Sarosiek, an oncologist and Homokomand activist, talking to Alexander Szydło... Szyłło, sorry. Well, I've got Beata Szydło in my head, but this is you. Aleksandra Szyyllo. As an oncologist in Warsaw, do you feel that you work in Europe or in the Third World? How do you answer the doctor? As much as I hate the PiS government, so I must honestly say that since 2017 oncology in Poland has been getting better. The breakthrough was to change the rules... Here's the change. We are approaching the European level of German or French. This is undoubtedly what our political opponent says. But I'm going to dedicate to the president's second question: "You work in a private clinic. As I understand it, this is an offer for VIP holders of private insurance? The doctor says, "No, you don't! Not many people know about this... Well, Madam President, I think it belongs to those who don't know. Not many people know that 99 percent of the hospital's activities are contracts under the NFZ. And so it is in almost all hospitals, in all private hospitals, and it is worth knowing that, as president, you should absolutely know that. The doctor left, but what I'm trying to say is that here in the political struggle... Because it is on every occasion that we must tease, criticize, batter the Law and Justice, even in the case of such good, obvious and supported by the professional environments of the law, for which I am very grateful to the Ministry, especially to Minister Peter Bromber for dialogue with the environment. That was said here. This dialogue is going on. I wish we had a dialogue here in the Senate. I've been to committee meetings several times, but I said: never, never again, I'll never go there again, because there's no discussion, no debate, no conversation, no arguments. There's nothing but jerking around and telling lies. Yeah, and saying it's not true. If the doctor comes and says the doctor works 300 hours a week... I want you to divide 300 hours by 24. It's been 12 days. The week's not 12 days, it's seven, really. None of us, even the doctor or I, have ever worked this much. Let's be honest here, let's talk about facts, not make stories. I absolutely agree with the senator's first statement, that's true. At some moments I disagreed, because we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, introduce separate legal and wage regulations for workers other than those working in medical professions. We have a minimum wage here, which is systematically raised, and it is a measure of what you, as director, refer to as cooks, salons, etc., etc. You're nodding your head. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's gonna be. We cannot do this separately, because it would be unfair in turn to the vast number of other non-medical workers who do not work in hospitals. They can't be treated in a special way, they can't be treated in a different way. I am no longer referring to the fact that inflation is, of course, the fault of PiS, Jarosław Kaczyński's fault and the fault of the government. We forget the shields that cost us 200 billion zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, spending 200 billion PLN. What is the great effort of all of us? And now we're all paying for it. But we can be happy and proud that we saved 2.5 million jobs, that people don't die on the street and beggars, they don't steal because they have jobs. It's a great value. Let's talk about reality, and let's not create stories. Internships. The doctor was talking about internships. After all, as a lively reminder, remember who eliminated the internships from day to day. Mrs. Ewa Kupac. She did it unexpectedly, hit the ground unprepared, no universities, no... Hospitals would, because they would like to receive several thousand doctors a year. We're preparing for this. It's a process, it has to be a process, it can't be a change introduced overnight, a change that crashes the system. At all, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot make drastic changes in health care. After all, every one of us who is dealing with health care knows very well that we cannot. It's very shaky, very... Someone here said it's on clay legs. I don't agree with that, but there's something about any disorder, any major change can cause serious perturbation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure there's a change that would lead to the closure of hospitals and the creation of 130 hospitals that you spoke of by Marshal Grodzki in Olsztyn. It was a psychic. No one, not the doctor, not me... No one's gonna sign off on this. It's an idea entirely from the galaxy. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the Lalonde scale? Specialists know it, Doctor knows it, I know it, but just to remind you or let you know what's affecting your health... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] Here we say hospitals... [[Mr. Senator, I think time's up.]] [[Senator, please don't disturb me. Time is calculated automatically.]] I say interesting things. Very well, you should know that. You can leave if you don't want to listen. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. Time is calculated automatically and the marshal has not exceeded time in any way. Don't disturb the speakers.]] Very rude. I'm surprised it's the ladies around here who've been giving us reprimands. Really, a little peace, a little humility, 'cause I think we're all gonna need it. Doctor, do you have something to say? [[Mr. Marshal...]] I don't give the floor so that, you know, I provoke you. [[Mr. Marshal, but please don't provoke me either. I'm trying to make you comfortable during the speech...]] But I don't have that comfort. I'm so sorry... [[I'll be the one to apologize on behalf of the House.]] ...I don't have that comfort and every time I come out here, I don't have that comfort because the ladies on the left are gonna scream. Well, apparently the left is so loud, but it's sad that it's about ladies, not ladies. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Marshal, I...]] What is the Lalonde scale? It would be good for you to listen and know that many factors affect our health. Our genes, what we have, we carry in our genes, affect health in about 18%. As far as the physical factors surrounding us are concerned, this is 21%. When it comes to our attitude to health, which is how we eat, how we eat, whether we smoke or drink vodka, how we behave, it's 53%. It's a lot. So the solution, of course not the only solution, for health care and for our health, for our health is prevention, very widely understood above all, active prevention. And we will talk about this very soon, the President has already talked about this, but we are also preparing, we have already actually prepared a project of huge preventive activities, from which the doctor, Madam President, will certainly be very pleased. What affects health in these 10% ? Only 10% of health care affects our health, our health, and the deaths you are so eagerly talking about, which are, of course, a tragedy and we would like these deaths to be as low as possible. These are people, money, and health care. As far as staffing is concerned, we have tried to increase the number of students admitted to medical courses by more than 50% within a few years. It's a huge effort of the state, it's a lot and I'm very happy about it. I used to be against small universities, new universities. At the moment, these universities work very well, they work very well. Let them be as many as possible and let them train as many doctors as possible. We create good financial conditions for nurses. ♪ And you're watching ♪ Talk to the nursing community, I'm still having this dialogue and conversation. The fact that more and more ladies are returning to their profession and that more and more ladies are taking up work after graduation, after graduating, which we are very happy about. There's a crisis when it comes to nurses... [[Timer signal]] I'm sure he's connected to a large number of ladies who retire, but I'm glad there's more and more of them in general. That's it. Thank you very much... I'm absolutely for the bill, the bill is good. I will vote in favour of the bill without amendment. ♪ Bo ♪ Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. If, on the one hand, you say that this will result in hospital debt and on the other hand you want higher increases, it must be said that this will cause higher hospital debt and greater problems for the directors, and the director sitting here will also be affected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll let you know that the list... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Marshal, I...]] Please, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u121	Thank you very much. I'd like to use my five minutes because I've been called to answer by your marshal. One at a time, then. First, Mr. Marshal, I don't have to read the Gazeta Wyborcza to know that there are public and non-public entities and those that have contracts and those that do not have contracts. I was talking about this sector, which is only a private sector, which means it does not use the funds of the National Health Fund. And such entities, Mr Marshal, are increasing, and especially specialist offices, because specialists, unfortunately because of their wages, are fleeing public entities. That's one thing. Secondly, I didn't know, Mr. Marshal, that you were so sensitive that you couldn't attend our Health Committee. I really don't fuck anybody at these committee meetings, I'm not fucking with you, I'm trying very hard to build a dialogue. In addition to the meetings on the adoption of laws, there are also meetings attended by the public parties to which patients come and where we have such a dialogue. So anyway, if the marshal isn't so scared... [[I'm not scared.]] ...invite you cordially. I promise you, I won't. And another thing. You spoke very beautifully, Mr. Marshal, about the Lalonde scale, about the challenges. Please reach to the health indicators and see what happened. for 7 years in the public health sector, how badly all the indicators have deteriorated and how much you have not done your job. Finally, decide whether to tighten our belts or invest in human capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u122	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u123	Thank you very much. I'd like to see Marshal Karczewski, too, if you don't mind. Mr. Marshal, I'll quote the bill to dispel your doubts. The agreement or order shall specify... I mean, the principal, the president, someone who runs the hospital. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In order to ensure that this remuneration corresponds in particular to the type of work carried out and the qualifications required for the performance of the work. This is, of course, the director's responsibility. If he thinks someone is competent, he can give him more, etc. This is point 1. Paragraph 2: took into account the quality and quantity of work carried out. Of course, that should be the principal's responsibility too. However, we also have point 3: • took into account the remuneration corresponding to the corresponding average wage increase in a given entity over a fixed period of time. That's what the bill says. This law raises the remuneration of medical staff by 30% over a certain period of time and at the same time states that we are to increase the remuneration of non-medical staff accordingly. That's for people who make money, for example. minimum national, we are to raise the salary by 30% if we are talking about an adequate increase. Of course, this is not a direct statement, but, Mr. Marshal, people will read this recipe, people will come for that money, and the NFZ will not give us that money. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Well, I don't know why. Ask the Minister. He doesn't give you that money because he doesn't include, he doesn't see it, he doesn't collect data, he doesn't ask how many employees are employed, how much you have to give, if you increase in one form or another. This data is not even collected, so it is not planned to transfer any funds, any in this regard. It's just here. Mr. Marshal has a negative attitude about this, and he says it shouldn't be that way, because it would violate some justice. I can agree with that, but it's written down. And here's the question: how do I get this done when the Minister says he won't give money for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, there are no more votes. For the record, the following senators voted in the minutes: Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Gromek, Senator Swede and Senator Sekuła. As I said, they made their speeches to the protocol. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal to Senator Orzechowska. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many content here in the broader context of health care. There was also a statement that it was just a minimum wage bill. It's like saying, only PLN 7.2 billion for six months. I think that it is not that our proposals concern only the increase in the minimum wage, but this solution is very important for us. In parallel, we take measures aimed at financing infrastructure, equipment, medical equipment, increasing expenditure on healthcare, and through this law we take care of people, we take care of health workers. By referring only to certain issues, e.g. Once again, a statement related to departures has been made I will only remind you that the number of relevant certificates that are issued, confirming full qualifications from year to year, is falling. So it could be concluded that there are fewer and fewer people willing to go. Of course, as I said in my previous speech, the increase in the minimum wage is only one element of making the medical profession more attractive. We are doing a number of other activities which, in the wider perspective, are intended to encourage young people on the one hand to study, on the other hand, to continue their work in the health sector later. Finally, thank you very much for the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... I'm sorry. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. The vote on the bill will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law and the Law on the profession of pharmacist. The text of the Act is contained in print No 708 and the report of the committee In print No 708 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Commission on the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and the pharmaceutical profession adopted by the Sejm on 11 May 2022. On 13 May 2022, the Senate Marshal sent a bill to the Senate Health Commission. After its consideration at the sitting, I ask the High House to adopt a resolution of the Senate on the adoption of the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u128	Thank you kindly, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, please tell me whether the meeting of the Committee on Health has given particular reasons why this professional group is to be protected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u130	The proposed law did not arouse great emotions because one professional group was added to the protected public workers. And this is mainly due to an extended scope of responsibility, because through the revision of previous laws, the scope of pharmaceutical activities has been extended e.g. to carry out vaccinations and tests. So direct contact with the patient has increased. And that's why there's an offer. This direct contact has also led to the extension and coverage of pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians with such protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more... You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, do these regulations that concern pharmaceutical technicians and pharmacists impose any additional obligations on them? Because in general, public officials have increased responsibilities... Maybe not as much as they are treated differently in the event of some crimes or offences. Is it just security, or are they supposed to be treated as public officials in general? And the next thing you know... [[Senator Beat Małecka-Libera: Yes?]] That's the reason for this were just vaccinations and these attacks associated with vaccination. Does this also include the participation of pharmaceutical technicians in vaccinations? Is there protection for pharmaceutical technicians here?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u133	In answer to the first part of the question, I will say that this protection, as is apparent from this law, is governed by pharmaceutical law, not by a code that regulates the issue of protection, e.g. us, the parliamentarians or the president. Thus, this applies only to individual activities performed according to their profession. During the meeting of the Health Committee, we did not consider the issue of direct vaccination tasks. Vaccinations shall be carried out in accordance with the letter of study and shall be carried out by all medical professionals entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you very much. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Krzysztof Smishek was authorised to present the applicant's position. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u135	Dear Marshal, High Senate! It is a great pleasure for me to be here before you, especially since the opportunity is extremely useful and good. The bill was submitted after many pharmacists from all over Poland applied to parliamentarians and spoke about their experiences, especially about the experiences of recent months, when Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists, had the opportunity, were given the opportunity to carry out vaccinations at their pharmacy points. Unfortunately, the events of recent months have shown that this very useful task for society has been occupied... These pharmacists met with bad situations, there were attacks on pharmacy points, criminal threats, insults or even insults of Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists. Here you can recall very shocking cases from Zgorzelec, Warsaw, Bydgoszcz. All this prompted Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists to strengthen their judicial actions and to ask parliamentarians to strengthen the protection of Polish pharmacists. Well, the president of the Lower Silesian Pharmacy Chamber, Mr Marcin Replewicz, who fought for these laws, played an important role in all this. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this project, or actually the bill, is no longer controversial. There was no controversy in the Seym. All parliamentarians voted for it, from right to left. This protection will serve all pharmacists. And those who vote left and those who vote right or center. It's an extremely important thing. This bill ends with some kind of, I would say, discrimination or at least unequal treatment. This unequal treatment of this medical profession lies in the fact that doctors, nurses, medical rescuers and even first aiders are protected in the same way as public officials, while... Until now, the Polish legislator has not seen apothecaries, has not seen pharmaceutical technicians, has not seen Polish pharmacists in the context of the need to protect them from threats, from violence, from attacks. Thus, in a sense, this law eliminates this unequal legal protection of medical professions. Probably a lot of you. I am such a person who received a second or third dose of the vaccine just at the pharmacy. I think that from the Sejm, as well as the Senate, this expression of gratitude should come out to Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists for their enormous commitment to fighting COVID, for the fact that more than 2 million doses of vaccine have already been given in Polish pharmacies. It may be a small thing, but it's very important to them. Polish farmers really serve Polish society, during this difficult time COVID served very hard. May this law be such an expression of gratitude on our part for their gigantic commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. At present, senators may submit a request to the applicant's authorised representative for the item on the agenda from a place lasting no more than one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the procedure of this law. Thank you very much to the group of Members who reported this. The Ministry of Health, the government supported this project after further work. As Senator Małecka-Libera said, this project was not intensively discussed because it was unanimous. The same thing happened in the Seym. We would like the Senate to accept it because it aligns the powers of pharmaceutical technicians and pharmacists involved in dispensing drugs to patients. They will benefit from the legal protection that public officials have. There was a question... These people are not public officials, they only benefit from such legal protection and therefore do not have the same responsibilities as public officials. These are the main elements that have been processed. And one more piece. Several such cases occurred during a pandemic, when the pharmacists had additional powers and it was associated with covid sharpenings, during vaccination, during the sale of medicinal products... Of course, pharmaceutical technicians are not entitled to most of the things that are assigned to pharmaceutical care, to many pharmaceutical services, but they are the people who most often stand directly at the window and issue drugs, with the exception of drugs that are highly active, therefore such protection should be provided for in their case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to have a concrete answer to a very specific question. I agree with the idea of this law and, of course, I will vote for it, but... in the case of criminal proceedings and criminal liability, these conditions must be clear. We want to protect pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians. And there are already 2 different laws, also when they carry out vaccinations, that was the reason for the amendment. But for example. in pharmaceutical law, the possibility of vaccination is described in Article. 86 of this right, and here this article is not called. There's art. 91 for technicians, and that is one issue, and for pharmacists it is a different law and article at all. 4. I mean, is that precise? [[Timer signal]] Will the cause that was the force that caused it be as if the bill had been taken care of?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u140	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u141	As far as pharmacists are concerned, because the issue of pharmaceutical technology is defined here to a much smaller extent, because it has less powers, it is here the defined paragraph. 2 is the pharmaceutical care provided by the pharmacist and the pharmaceutical services that are specified. There are also vaccinations as part of pharmaceutical care. Now we're still working on expanding the cultivation for pharmacists for all adult vaccinations. So that in this respect this legal protection, such as for a public official, will be adapted. And as for the main causes that were diagnosed... It's an order to cover your nose and mouth with epidemiology. I guess that was the reason, I'd say, assault on pharmacists.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz and Alexander Szwed presented their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? I take it you didn't. The vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, senators. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the next additional annual payment for pensioners in 2022. The text of the Act is contained in print No 726 and the report of the Commission In print No 726 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took place on 7 June and which concerned the Act on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners, commonly referred to as the 14th pension. This is a benefit that will be granted to persons who retire up to PLN 2 000 900 gross Then this 14th will be what the height is. the lowest gross pension, or 1 thousand 338 PLN and 44 gr. In the case of persons who receive benefits higher than PLN 2 000 900, the 14th will be paid in the system of zloty per zloty. But this is about people who collect pensions of up to PLN 4 000 200. Of course, I'm talking about gross benefits. The legal scope of the Act covers the pension rights in the general scheme, within the framework of the social security of farmers and the so-called pension supply. U.S. uniforms. In addition, the Act grants additional benefits to beneficiaries of bridge pensions, benefits and pre-retirement benefits, social pensions, teacher compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits, cash benefits granted to civilian blind victims of war activities and pensions for war and military invalids. The benefit shall be paid for health insurance. This benefit will be granted to persons who did not have a suspended right to a basic benefit as at 24 August 2022. The additional annual cash benefits will be paid out of office together with the basic benefit, starting from the last payment date in August 2022 on the date of payment of the benefits in August 2022. In the event of a confluence of the right to more than one basic benefit, which is paid by 2 authorities, the decision shall be given The additional annual cash benefit shall be paid by the competent authority of the Member State in which the payment is made. The Social Insurance Institution. The Act exempts from personal income tax the amount of the additional 14th benefit. The committee meeting held a discussion and was asked by the chairman of the committee, Mr Richard Majer, to adopt this law without amendments. 4 senators voted in favour, 3 against, 1 senator abstained, so that this motion was accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A minority... On behalf of myself and Senator Arthur Dunin, it was the two of us who applied for a minority, and I would like to withdraw the first and second proposals, and to uphold the third and inseparable conclusion of the fourth. They relate to the place from which these pensions will be granted in the current year. We believe that it is not the Solidarity Fund that should be the payer of such benefits, and that bets that are authorised to do so, i.e. the Social Insurance Institution, the Agricultural Insurance Fund or the relevant pension establishments of uniform services. This motion is sustained. We believe that all pension benefits, including Senator Orzechowska was talking about it here. . such as a pension commonly known as a 14th pension should have a payer. In this way, we are talking directly about the way in which the pensions are paid. These conclusions are sustained.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address my question to the rapporteur of the majority, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. I'd like to ask if there was any mention of... Maybe the Senator will know that directly from the project. The 14th pension is another positive programme for seniors, addressed to them by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. How many pensioners will be supported under the 14th pension, and how globally does this support look like? What amount will be allocated to the 14th pension?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u148	To be honest, I don't remember that value. Because I was remotely involved, I didn't hear everything, so I think... [[Fifteen billion.]] Fifteen billion. [[Voice from the room: 11.]] 11 billion. Thank you for the hint.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u149	Thank you very much. As I understand it, no further questions. Thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill presented is a de facto repetition of the solution that we applied last year. It worked out and we adopted the same design of the rules, we adopted the same sources of funding. Payments will be made in August, until 20 September, with the exception of agricultural pensions, which are scheduled to be paid in October. As of today, we see no reason to change things around here when it comes to sources of funding. That's what the motion was about. The Solidarity Fund has been funded by the State budget. There is absolutely no risk that the funds in the fund will run out. All other structures are as they were. I think this is a good solution, and good solutions need not be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to thank you for this bill, because 14th retirement is a very important instrument of support for seniors. I would like to ask you what I have already asked the rapporteur Senator. How many pensioners are included in the bill? What's the backup? And the third question: what will be the global support after summing up the 13th and 14th pensions?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u153	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u154	High Izbo, the project will cover, as I recall, 9 million people, i.e. over 90% pensioners in Poland. We use about PLN 11 billion for this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions... [[I'm still...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator, I just didn't see you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u156	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm used to it. High Izbo! Minister! Here's one very interesting amendment. I have to admit, I don't see any logic in this amendment, but maybe there is one, so I'd like to ask you for any help. I understand that payment, let's call it popular, fourteens are made from a neutral external fund, which is powered by the state budget. Here it is proposed to pay it out of the FUS, but some people who are entitled to 14 do not receive their salaries, pensions, pensions, etc., from the FUS. E.g. It's a uniform. Why would the F.U.S.U. pay uniforms is an allowance, I don't know. Would you mind explaining what's going on here? Why would the FUS take over all, I'd say, liabilities related to the payout of the 14th, if some of these people from other sources are getting their rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u157	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u158	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is the solution we talked about. We propose that this be paid from the Solidarity Fund, as it was the previous year. This system has worked out, there is absolutely no reason why we should change this solution. It is powered by the state budget, so everything is fine and there is no risk that this fund will not be able to carry out this task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u159	Thank you very much. I hope there really aren't any questions now and I haven't missed anyone. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up... Excuse me... There it is. Excuse me. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven. [[No, thank you.]] Yeah, that's right. Senator Swede. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: Thank you, too.]] [[Voice from the hall: I don't want to thank you.]] Don't bother the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners prepared by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in 2022 concerns the payment of another 14th pension in 2022. The Prime Minister announced this on 11 February this year. And he kept his word. As underlined in the explanatory memorandum, in 2019 pensioners and pensioners, in accordance with the Act of 4 April 2019 on one-off cash benefits for pensioners, received a one-off benefit of PLN 1 thousand 100 gross in 2019. They were paid to every pensioner and pensioner because they were not social benefits from social assistance, which depend on the amount of income per person in the family. This benefit was commonly referred to as a 13th pension or a plus pension. Financial support was particularly important for low pension beneficiaries. Since 2020, the Act of 9 January 2020 on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners has been introduced on a permanent basis for the payment of an additional annual cash benefit, so-called. 13th pension, for all pensioners at the rate of the lowest pension applicable from 1 March of the year in which the additional annual cash benefit is paid. In 2020, 13th pension was paid in the amount of PLN 1 000 200, in 2021. In the amount of PLN 1 thousand 250 88 and in 2022. In the amount of PLN 1 thousand 338 44 gross. Between 2019 and 2020 the amount spent on the thirteenth pension is about PLN 48 billion. The amount allocated to the 14th pension in 2021 is PLN 11 billion and in 2022 PLN 11.4 billion. That is why I would like to end by mentioning all the more important actions of the Law and Justice Government in favour of seniors. This is primarily a reduction in the retirement age previously raised by the PO-PSL government to the sixty-seventh year of age, to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. This was declared in our programme in 2015 and reduced this age in 2016. There's a 75+ programme declared in our programme in 2015, prices have been reduced in 2016. This is the 13th pension I have already mentioned; in the years 2019 and 2020 it was a support of PLN 47.8 billion. This is the second time that the 14th pension is being processed; in 2021 it was a support of PLN 11 billion, in 2022, PLN 11.4 billion. It's a Senior+ programme. More funds have already been allocated to the the fifth self-government in 2018 More than 970 houses and clubs have already been operating throughout Poland, and in 2015 there were less than 100 of them. In turn pension without PIT up to PLN 2.5 thousand per month entered into force on 1 January 2020. To sum up all the actions of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in favour of seniors, I will say that in 2015 this additional support to the elderly amounted to just PLN 3.6 billion, last year it was 10 times more, because 36 billion PLN, and this year it will be even more, because about PLN 44 billion. Let me sum up: both the 14th pension under review and all the actions that have been addressed in the explanatory memorandum and which I have just quoted show how well and effectively the rule of law and justice works for our seniors. At this point, I would like to express my thanks to the Minister for all these actions for both Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and for the entire government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My speech will be in a slightly different tone, perhaps even in a very different tone than what my previous speaker said here. I talked about this at the committee meeting and let me do it again here. First of all, it's like this. And we all know that. That one of the biggest problems of the last time is inflation. The government is declaring a fight against inflation. National Bank of Poland raises interest rates. Why does he raise these interest rates? That's because he wants to take the excess money off the market. Inflation comes from the fact that there is more money on the market than goods that are reflected in this money, so you have to do everything to get as much money from the market as possible. However, in the case of the 14th pension, this money is taken off the market by means of high interest rates and by charging certain groups, and by means of the transfer of money to other groups, the money is admitted to the market. This is not an effective fight against inflation. This is a perpetuum mobile. And this is, I think, the division of Poles, because one of them is, for example. Young families who have loans have bought apartments, have children have increased installments due to the fight against inflation, sometimes even twice, and other groups get a 14th pension by which these effects of the fight against inflation have been eliminated or reduced. I don't think that's fair. And that's the first line. By the way, I will immediately say that, in this connection, in the vote on this point, I will simply abstain from the 14th pension, as I abstained from the committee meeting. I think that as far as we can discuss the 13th pension, because it is a little bit so that there are 13ths in the administration, the 14th pension serves precisely the division that I have spoken about here today. Finally, the second question: where did this inflation come from? I'm not an economist, but I see three factors here. The first one, going from the end, is, of course, Russia's aggression against Ukraine and therefore the increase in raw material prices. This is the first cause of inflation and the government had no influence on it. The second reason for inflation was the devil's alternative, and I'm not going to criticize the government here, maybe only partially, these are all those anticovid shields that we had on the occasion of the Coronavirus pandemic. I know companies that are saved by these anticovid shields, they're alive today, they're prospering, and they're doing well, and if they didn't get that support, they wouldn't be here today. And glory for that. But I also know companies and I can name owners who have earned quite a lot of money in this pandemic, for example. from China, the thermometers that you test the temperature, applying them to the forehead, which they sold for different amounts, but they admitted in a conversation with me that there were months when there was a 10-fold puncture on such a thermometer. And they got e.g. within 3 days 1.5 million PLN per account within the anticovid shield. So I think there's a partial wine here, as far as I'm concerned... In the first case it is not at all, I am talking about Russia's aggression on Ukraine and the rise in raw material prices. In the second case, I believe, it was the devil's alternative, and a little need... That's what Mr. Fogiel said, and I agree with Mr. Fogle on this, that was a very difficult choice. And the third reason is, I believe, those huge social transfers that weren't covered in investments. And we are here debating another such transfer, which I think will be another inflationary impulse. That is why I will abstain from voting on this point. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Durlak, Świlski, Łuczak, Gawęda, Pęcherz, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Jazłowiecka and Gorgon-Komor have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. And then there's Senator Major. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? No. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses and the Act on Processing Criminal Information. The text of the Act is contained in print No 707 and the report of the committee In print No 707 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act extends the catalogue of entities entitled to apply for the permission of the Minister of Justice to multiple, unlimited searches of perpetual books in the central database of perpetual books to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the head of the National Criminal Information Centre. It should be stressed that the KRUS and the Head of KCIK, as well as the other entities mentioned in Article, are. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 of the Law of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books and mortgage, consent to the search for perpetual books is needed in order to be able to find the number of the perpetual book concerning property belonging to a particular person, on the basis of certain criteria, e.g. address of the property or name of the person concerned And also to be able to check whether the person owns the property in Poland at all. The draft also provides for a revision of the Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) (a) b Act of 6 July 2001 on the processing of criminal information. It is proposed to amend the provision so that the scope of the processing of criminal information includes not only objects, including immovable property, used to commit a crime or lost in connection with a crime, but also objects obtained as a result of a crime, therefore objects, including property in which the possession of certain persons has entered following the offence. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was held on 25 May 2022. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Finally, I would like to say to you that the bill did not raise any controversy in the Sejm, it was adopted by a large majority, because 444 Members were in favour. I move, as I said before, to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to represent the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. There's no representative of the Ministry in the O.R. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Gromko, Bladder and Swede made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 716 and the Commission's reports In print No 716 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee. [[There's no...]] In that case, I'm declaring a technical recess. After the arrival of the Senator, the rapporteur will continue. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 38 to 13 minutes 39]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Senator Arthur Dunin, rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. On 17 May this year. a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure was held to express its opinion on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government and on certain other laws. Mr Marcin Horała; President of the Central Communication Port Board, Mr Mikołaj Wild; expert on legislation and legal services of that port, Mr Aleksander Arndt; representative of the company, Mr Witold Janiszewski and CPK expert, Mr Michał Sołtysiak. The proposed law amends the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration and subsequent amendments to the provisions of other laws. The proposed provisions aim to ensure that the tasks relating to the preparation and implementation of the investments contained in the Central Communication Port building programme are carried out. The project is designed to adapt the structure of government administration in this respect. The Act extends regional development activities to all issues relating to the preparation and implementation of investments, accompanying investments and other tasks relating to the Central Communication Port. In addition, the representative for the Central Communication Port shall be entrusted with the supervision of the State Enterprise of the State Airports. In the course of the discussion, Senator Zając took the floor, although the speech did not concern the law, Mr Jan Hamerski noted this in his commentary, thanking the senator and stressing that it was a promotion of the so-called. Hole Jasielsko-Sanocki. The Senate Legislative Office submitted 2 comments to the bill. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Point 1 of point 11a, as well as to Article. 6. The Ministry accepted such amendments. There has been a vote on these amendments. There were four votes in favour, one against, and one senator abstained. And the entire bill was voted out by three votes in favour, with two votes against. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Minister's not here. So I'm opening the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I deeply regret that the Minister is not here, because what I want to say is, first of all, I am addressing Minister Horala. But I think the message will be clear enough. The situation is quite interesting today, I would say even interesting. We are talking about the Central Communication Port, about the investment that Minister Horała was talking about as an absolutely groundbreaking investment. He often compares this investment to the investment of the city in which he lives, i.e. the city of Gdynia. In fact, I, as a Pomeranian, support the Minister. But today is the situation that I can't tell him about my empathy in any other way, more clearly. And I want to draw attention to one fact. How is it that such an important investment, the Central Communication Port, is pushed from the Ministry of Infrastructure to another ministry? How is it that the Minister of Infrastructure doesn't care about his best minister, the Minister of Horała? What must happen is that Minister Adamczyk doesn't care that in his portfolio, the name is so colloquially Was it the biggest, greatest investment project in the 21st century? This is something that Prime Minister Kaczyński often spoke about. Unfortunately, the situation is that something must be wrong with this project, because if you open any information about the CPK today, you will see only the meadow in Baranów, nothing more. Like someone once said It's not long since this phrase has come up. There are facts and stories. Is the CPK a fact or a story? That's one thing. Secondly, I don't know if you know... If not, let me give you this in a few sentences. In 2014, one of the Pomeranian PiS leaders was Mr.Patryk Demski, the only candidate of the PiS, who at that time won the elections in Pomeranian Voivodeship. He became the mayor of Pelplin and promised the people that what was going to happen would be groundbreaking. Guess what happened. After 3 years. Anyway, Mr. Patrick Demski resigned as Mayor of Pelplin. A huge surprise: the PiS star gives away the ticket. Unbelievable. He gave up his ticket. But do you know why he gave up his ticket? He gave up his ticket because he read in the paper that there's gonna be a contest for the vice president of Lotus. Guess what was the outcome of this contest. He won, became vice president of Lotus. From the point of view of each of us, it is difficult for him to be surprised. Instead of earning 7,000 zlotys, he earns 40,000 zlotys. Pelplin left, the residents left. Mr. Patrick Demski's career in Lotus lasted less than a year, and Lotus had to quit. And then what happened? Quick transfer. Turns out there's a new contest. Who? Chairman of the CPK Supervisory Board. Guess who won, who became head of the board. That's right, Patrick Demski, Prime Minister Horala's favorite PiS member. What happened next? After a while it turned out that there was a competition for a member of the Board of Central Communication Port, the same port. Well, we're still talking about that meadow in the Aries. Guess who won this contest. That's right, Patrick Demski. Patrick Demski, a well-known self-government officer, also performed this function less than a year ago, because the Baranów community and surroundings said that she did not know a co-worker, a member of the board, with whom she talks worse. He was canceled or resigned, never mind. It's been a while. Do you know where Patrick Demski is today? He's on the board of Tauron. There was a competition there too, and now it's happening there. I'll go back to CPK, to Minister Horala. On the way it turned out that his assistant, also Patrick, Patrick Felmet, a young man I have nothing to do with young people, they should get involved in social life, I am a supporter of it, started in a competition of a company called Lotos. This is Gdynian, the assistant of Horala, Minister of Horala. Guess if he won that lottery contest. That's right, he was in charge of marketing in Lotus. Then, somehow, they were looking for people again at the Central Communication Port in Baranów. They were looking for specialists for the board. Once again, the competition was announced and Patrick Felmet submitted his résumé. Yeah, he won because he's good, he's just good. And these are the truths and stories. I presented the facts to you, this is more or less what the Central Communication Port in Baranów looks like. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have come to work on a law on amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws, which aims to extend the powers of the proxy for the protection of the meadows and the transfer of competences from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Development and to extend these competences. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Minister Horała came in three people. As Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy and as Agent for CPK cases. He came in with the bill to prepare the stool for himself. I understand that Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński's statement on fat cats concerns Mr. Horala. It is interesting that, 5 years after the announcement of the decision to implement the CPK construction, the government decides that this project can be implemented as a separate entity. After 5 years and Mr Horała went there in 2019, which is 2 years later, well, as the best High-speed rails, what are they supposed to gain? No reliable, competent people? The amounts that were prepared at the beginning, in 2017. I will stress this because this is important. 19 billion was going to cost the air component, the whole thing was going to cost 35 billion. This year, even before the war in Ukraine, experts and experts have calculated that the cost of the airport is 35 billion, and the entire railway component is 200 billion, and also these amounts, as you know for sure, are understated. Even the Supreme Audit Chamber considers that the CPK concept does not provide a full business justification, and the CPK implementation schedule was general in nature and indicated the impossible deadlines for individual tasks to be met. The idea of implementing the CPK outside the Ministry of Infrastructure will mean even worse coordination with other infrastructure programmes. Moreover, it announces this deterioration and so embarrassingly poor coordination of railway projects carried out by CPK with railway projects to be implemented by PKP PLK. So we should prepare in advance for chaos and conflict of competence. This position will be entrusted to a mediocre but faithful person, Jarosław K. Unfortunately, this person could not even resolve the dispute with air controllers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This law can be called the Grand Escape Act of the CPK representative from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Projects such as this should be carried out in the Ministry of Infrastructure. Back in the 5 years, I will say that these were years of uncertainty about large and valuable green areas whose future is still unknown, because we do not know how many of them will be grubbed up, how many missed but devastated. These are five years of questions about the timeliness of the whole project and questions about financing in the first pandemic and now rising inflation, uncertainty about geopolitical situation and rising interest rates. It is 5 years of treating citizens as unnecessary ballast, creating a pier that will bury the further development of smaller airports if you consider support for them, and without any logistical and financial justification for creating one large airport. But one thing is certain for 5 years: regular transfers into huge amounts for the proxy and people who have for the past 5 years faked actions to complete the whole preparatory process and start the construction process. There is also informational chaos, no decision that you have guaranteed to the inhabitants of Łódź Mileszek, Łódź Lublin, Brzezin or Wiączyń. I'd like it to sound right here and right now. Minister, you've made a commitment. We'll look at your hands. We'll account for your promise to create a tunnel that will keep these people from losing all their assets. I will personally vote against this bill because Poland cannot afford to feed our money to fat cats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I personally regret that there are no representatives of the government during the work on the last two points. I didn't want to make formal requests for a break so that ministers could answer senators' questions. I think that it would be particularly important for this point to have a qualified representative of the government, because there is an investment that raises considerable controversy and concerns both on the macroeconomic, economic and social side. And that's what I'm about to tell you. I understand that ministers are now taking part in the votes that take place in the Sejm, but Mr. Marshal, I'm here to address you. In that case, perhaps the order of consideration of the points could have been changed, because we have at least an initiative on a lawyer, and perhaps then it would have been possible for the minister representing the government to be present during the work on such an important point. I do not know how you are senators, but I received protests in my mailbox from residents of various municipalities in Poland who are concerned about everything that relates to CPK. This isn't even about the Central Communication Port itself, the Baran community. Although there are protests there, as far as I know. But above all about the high-speed rail routes that are planned with this investment and how government or public administrations deal with these issues, respond to the concerns and concerns of the inhabitants. I got a description of various meetings, meetings where government representatives were present. Many people were simply outraged by the arrogance of the authorities' representatives and the misunderstanding of their personal drama, because it is easy to set a line on the map by designing the route, but if this route passes through the settlements And we often deal with such a situation and the need to tear down the house, expropriate the people for whom the house is, you can say, the achievement of life, an important element of a sense of security... High Izbo, this is a matter that I think requires a systemic solution. I know that some solutions are being designed to try to calm the inhabitants, saying that the level of compensation will be higher than the market value, because also such voices appear in this case. However, I think it is a pity that the High House could not ask specific questions about this social dimension on the occasion of the amendment of the Law on Departments, because I believe that at least half of the senators in this Chamber in their constituency have some elements relating to the Central Communication Port and meet with protests on this matter. I can say, for example. In Mazowsze on 10 June at 5 p.m., the public organizes a protest of the Mazovian communes. I know there are protests in Silesia. I personally intervened in the cases of the Podkrakowski communes, where this case caused an uproar, because the inhabitants who moved, for example. from Cracow, settled in Podkraków countryside, built houses, wanted to have some comfort of life, suddenly found out that legally built buildings in which they invested their life's achievements or on which they took loans... were suddenly to be deprived of all this. What's more, this arrogance is not about... Because these inhabitants often do not raise such a thing that no infrastructure changes should be carried out at all, and I say this so that we understand each other well. It is about a certain balance of social interest, broadly understood, and all about the possibility of developing communication infrastructure in a modern country. Such disputes will always arise, and the problem is how they will be dealt with. The point is that there's no sense of harm, no sense of being deprived of some group of people who are in a minority towards the whole society... Because, of course, the number of those protesting against 35 or 36 million Polish citizens is not exactly gigantic, so maybe someone thinks: and let them protest there, shout and it will end, and we will continue to do our job. However, this is a problem that, in my opinion, requires reflection, in-depth reflection on how these issues can be solved. And I believe that in the case of such investments, public opinion should also be reassured. And this is also in the interest of the governing camp, because in this situation of Podkrakowska it affected people, some of whom are supporters of Law and Justice. And one of them told me, "I'll never vote again." The Law and Justice. And as we know, in Cracow itself, when it comes to supporting the governing camp, it is not like the average in the country, it is much lower. Thus, a camp ruled by a certain arrogance of power harms itself in this regard. He is also giving himself not the best witness, presenting the inability to resolve professional social conflicts against this background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u173	Thank you, Senator. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the senator because about the problems of Krakow's inhabitants and those of Krakow in relation to the topic that you raised, we have... Mr. Marshal, you're a senator from the Cracow district. These are indeed very serious social problems. And my box is full, and the meetings are full... As a Senator from Krakow, but also as a citizen, I attach to this statement that it is conducted in a way that leads or can lead to serious social unrest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator has caused an avalanche here. Indeed, in Silesia these protests are very large. We have already met with the Minister twice, once during the meeting of the Senate Team for the Development of the Silesian Voivodeship here in the Senate, the second time in the Provincial Office in Katowice. However, I absolutely agree that protests, comments of residents are not taken seriously because... I would like to add that in Silesia dozens of communes got along. And not on the basis that if there's nothing in municipality A, it's in municipality B, or if it's moving this route, they're the only ones who've made a deal and they've proposed two solutions for the course of these high-speed trains. And we made a statement about it. We do not have an answer yet, but I absolutely believe that we need to solve this problem now, we need to talk and take into account what local communities, local authorities or municipalities have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u177	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Komarnicki, Bladder, Swede and Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. The text of the Act is contained in print No 717 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 717 A and 717 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u178	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005, on which the committee was sitting at its 100th meeting on 18 May 2005. The aim of the Convention is to protect cultural heritage, strengthen its role in building identity and diversity and peaceful dialogue between communities forming the heritage of the European cultural and civilization circle, and to highlight the importance of activities related to the dissemination of cultural heritage for the growth of a common sense of European identity. The Convention is of a framework nature and defines the general objectives and areas of action in this area. It creates only general commitments to a specific action and at the same time allows the possibility to adopt alternatives resulting from the legal traditions of the country and its policies. Within the meaning of the Convention, cultural heritage is a collection of resources inherited from past generations that people identify, regardless of ownership rights, as a reflection and expression of their constantly evolving values, beliefs, knowledge and traditions. It also covers all environmental aspects resulting from interaction between people and places over time. The Convention requires States Parties to recognise the right of every human and community to enjoy and enrich the cultural heritage. This right shall not be subject to restrictions other than those arising from the protection of the public interest and the rights and freedoms of other persons. In particular, States Parties are required to develop Through the Council of Europe, the function of monitoring cultural heritage legislation, policies and practices in accordance with the principles adopted in the Convention. The achievement of the objectives of the Convention will make use of the potential of cultural heritage to create a peaceful and democratic society and the process of sustainable development and promotion of cultural diversity, as well as cooperation between all interested cultural heritage public, institutional and private entities. This Act aims to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for society. The explanatory memorandum of the bill indicates, among other things, that ratification of the Convention will express the support of the Republic of Poland for the Council of Europe's efforts to build a European community based on the cultural heritage of individual communities living in Europe. It should not be a source of conflict, but it should be a common European heritage. This cultural heritage can form the basis for building and developing peaceful and stable societies based on respect for human rights and democracy. The ratification of the Convention will support actions to support the implementation of cultural heritage rights as human rights. In the Sejm, 440 Members voted in favour of the bill, 4 against, 9 abstentions. The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at its 100th meeting of 18 May this year. Following the presentation of the Act by the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage Wanda Zwinogrodzka, Deputy Director of the Department of Monument Protection at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jakub Wiśniewski and a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bartosz Solocha, Deputy Director of the Legal and Treaty Department, adopted the ratification act unanimously, by 7 votes. The discussion raised the question of Senator Bogdan Klich as to which countries have ratified this convention so far. Director Jakub Wiśniewski gave a precise answer by alphabetically listing the 23 countries that ratified the Convention. There are 5 other countries, including the Republic of Poland, which are preparing for ratification or are in the process of ratifying this act. Then there was an additional question as to whether the Convention ratified Azerbaijan, to which the Director replied that it did not. Azerbaijan is not the party that signed the Convention, but it would first have to be signed. But beyond any doubt, there is no ratification by this country. The Senate Legislative Office did not make any comments. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Swed has already presented the formal legal context of the Act ratifying this convention in quite detail. I would like to add to that those elements that were discussed during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on 7 June. This bill was sent by your marshal to the committee on 13 May. As I mentioned, we, as the Committee on Culture and Media, discussed this law at our meeting on 7 June at 5 p.m. This Convention is not of a task, as is apparent from its framework formula. This means that it merely sets out a targeted framework for a new policy towards cultural heritage, which will change the understanding of the meaning of the protection of cultural heritage and its importance to society. The Convention is part of a number of international legal instruments which embrace cultural heritage in a holistic and dynamic manner, thus contributing to updating the objectives of the safeguard measures. With the support of grassroots involvement, the Convention can increase the potential of cultural heritage in building a democratic society. In addition, by launching processes to build public awareness of the role of cultural heritage as a resource supporting sustainable development, the Convention will contribute to the wider sharing and creative use of heritage. The concept of a common European heritage contained in the Convention will contribute to deepening dialogue and thus building a peaceful and democratic governance. I will remind you that this is a convention of the Council of Europe, not of the European Union, and that, theoretically, more than 50 Member States of the Council of Europe are parties to this convention. As for the number of countries that have signed it and which have already ratified it, Senator Swed has already spoken about it, and I will not develop this thread. It is worth paying attention to the objectives of the Convention. The right of every human being to participate freely in cultural life contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also includes the right to cultural heritage. The recognition by States Parties to the Convention that rights relating to cultural heritage fall within this category of human rights is an overriding objective of the Convention. Referring to a broad and general Article. 27 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention indirectly clarifies the scope of this right and supports actions to implement it. This action, and at the same time the purpose of the Convention, is also to recognise individual, i.e. every person, as well as collective, i.e. individual communities, responsibility for cultural heritage. The State Party to the Convention also undertakes to emphasise that the objective of protecting the cultural heritage and the sustainable use of this heritage is to develop and improve the quality of human life. It will be mandatory to implement the Convention's provisions on the use of cultural heritage in the building of peace and democracy in the sustainable development process and to promote cultural diversity, as well as provisions aimed at extending, within the limits of their competences, cooperation between all cultural heritage stakeholders. In the Polish legal system, the obligation for the Republic of Poland to create conditions enabling dissemination and equal access to cultural objects and to ensure the freedom of use of these goods is directly enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Article shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and Article 1 73. High Izbo, during the meeting of the committee, Minister Sellin was present at the meeting. In his speech, the Minister stated that the Polish legal system basically takes into account all the provisions of the Convention and that they were implemented, among others. in the Library Act, in the Business Act and in other normative acts. To my question, which concrete solutions have been introduced, the Minister has undertaken to answer in writing. Some of this is written in the justification for the original, for print no. 1571 Sejm of the Republic of Poland. During the discussion, Marshal Borusewicz asked about minority issues. Here the Minister replied that it was all about cultural heritage, that there was no distinction between cultural policies relating to individual heritage. On the contrary, it is generally intended to allow for the preservation of the widely understood cultural, multi-ethnic, multicultural heritage which each country party to this convention has in its territory. High Izbo, all the senators present at the meeting voted in favour of ratification of the convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u181	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. Which of the rapporteurs? [[Senator Swede.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u182	Mr. Senator, of course I was at my committee meeting. There were questions. I'd like to ask you a question that we have here. We have received a response from Minister Sellin on 2 countries, Russia and Belarus. Did they sign this convention? Well, I know you don't. But are you? Is that what you talked about? Second question, the question that didn't come up. You said 23 countries that have already ratified the Convention. Are these countries Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Serbia? Did you have that information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u183	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u184	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, may I exchange... Earlier, Mr. Director was talking about the list of 23 countries, and I didn't name them directly. I see that some of those countries that you have given have ratified the Convention. These include: the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Finland, Georgia, the Republic of Latvia, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, the Kingdom of Norway, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Serbia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Swiss Confederation, Ukraine, Hungary, the Italian Republic. This is the information from the Seym printing that was delivered in April. It was later ratified by the Kingdom of Spain in April 2020 and ratified by the Kingdom of Belgium on Friday 13 May. This is a list of 23 countries that have ratified the Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is for the other rapporteur. Senator, we're talking about cultural heritage. Our heritage was very badly lost, especially during World War II. Is this... [[Voice from the room: A little louder, Mr. Senator.]] I am saying that we are talking about cultural heritage, and our heritage has been strongly depleted during the last World War II. The question is: will this convention in any way allow, improve, accelerate the recovery of our cultural goods, or compensation for what has been destroyed?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u187	Mr Senator, we did not discuss this issue in detail during the committee meeting, but I can tell you that the more countries that ratify this convention, the better the starting position for other re-entry actions concerning the recovery of Polish cultural goods. It's a complex process, and part of it is that... there's a special cell in the Ministry of Culture that monitors issues related to various auctions, houses, because this piece of work, I'm talking about mobility. We are not talking about architecture now, because it is on the territory of the Republic of Poland, but above all about mobility, i.e. books, objects, paintings, sculptures, graphics, manuscripts, etc., etc. I can say that in recent years the situation has improved significantly, Poland has been successful and various institutions... I can say, among other things. The Royal Castle in Warsaw, which obtains for this purpose money from sponsors, large companies, makes a mass of purchases of Polonics. As far as matters are concerned, I would say legal, there are interstate arrangements here. I would like to remind you that we recently had a big discussion in the Senate about this Korwin book from Torun, which caused a huge discussion on this subject. These are extremely sensitive issues, and I would not like to develop it here in detail at the moment. Professor Kowalski, who has been handling these cases for years, has a theory about this. I think I would go beyond the role of rapporteur if I began to speak in detail on this subject. To respond to your question, I will say this: this convention undoubtedly makes a good climate for the debate in the international circulation on cultural issues. Moreover, modern states are now making modern cultural policies an important instrument also for foreign policy, and in this sense this convention is part of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u188	Thank you very much. That was the last question. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Culture and National Heritage were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm actually repeating this question, but this time I'm directing it to the government. What does it look like in government optics? Whether this convention will speed up our processes, I would call it direct, rewinding related to World War II, whether it's phrases in nature, it's about mobility, works of art, or, for example, as compensation for the losses incurred. In architecture? Because if someone had the courage and the strength to destroy the Royal Castle in Warsaw, then let him have the strength to give us back the money for rebuilding this castle. At least that's what I think. If we can, for example. demand that Russia at least contribute to the reconstruction of Ukraine, without going back to historical processes, to World War II? And here, and there was destruction, evil will, invasions, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u190	Which one of you will speak? I'm asking you to introduce yourself. [[Legal adviser at the Department of Monument Protection in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Łukasz Czwojda: Łukasz Czwojda, legal adviser at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer this question briefly, this convention has nothing to do with restitution matter as such. It contains basically programme standards, not process standards, which allow for such operations to return cultural goods. For this there are other normative acts of international law: the UNESCO Convention, the UNIDROIT Convention, bilateral agreements. This convention is very useful and uncontroversial, but in this respect it will not help us in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u192	Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal? I'm sorry to keep you going, but...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u193	I ask for a brief written reply, if possible. Well, we're in no hurry. Could you introduce to me, possibly to other senators, what legal acts allow us to rewind? It's all about nature. Let's focus on that. I am asking about acts of international nature, but also about internal acts of our country, possibly the state that has performed the acquisition of works of art. [[Legal adviser at the Department of Monument Protection in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Łukasz Czwojda: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u194	I understand the senator is expecting an answer in writing. [[In writing, detailed and precise.]] I see. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I specifically asked about Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Ukraine and Russia, because it is the signing of this convention that is supposed to protect countries from the situations that took place during the war in the Balkans in the 1990s. Well, there were very serious damage. The States that sign these conventions make as if certain commitments, that is very important. I would also like to say that this is one of those beautiful moments when we are not in any political dispute, ladies and gentlemen. This is about what is our heritage, and it is not only a material heritage, but also a spiritual heritage. We're talking about music, we're talking about beautiful literature, we're talking about painting, we're talking about all the works of art, and we're talking about what's going on, for example. Nature. These are the important issues that result from this. Sometimes we don't pay attention to what this convention is about. Yet, gentlemen, at the point that Senator Swed has already reported in detail, it is said that the achievement of the objectives of the Convention will allow the potential of cultural heritage to be exploited for the creation of a peaceful and democratic society and the process of sustainable development and the promotion of cultural diversity. These are attitudes that citizens should actually adopt. And now, in conclusion, I would like to remind you that in 2018 was... I even brought with me this special quilter from this meeting. It was a very important meeting in Brussels, a meeting on cultural heritage, such a culmination of 2018. We went there with a delegation of the Polish Parliament, and we were led by a MEP, Mr Zdrojewski. There was a very serious debate between representatives of all countries, but mostly people from countries that are not members of the European Union. I'd like to add that this is a convention. The Council of Europe, or 50 countries, and not just the European Council, or those 27 countries that belong to the European Union. This is extremely important. It was at that time that representatives of the Balkan countries asked for support for all these activities, including: in the field of obtaining different kinds of reparations after the war in the Balkans. So that we welcome the signing of this convention. I thank the Sejm for a properly unanimous vote on this matter and the Government for signing this document.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u197	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm very short. I'd like to clarify Senator Fedorovich's words. There are 47 members, or actually 46, because the Council of Europe recently got rid of its ranks of the Russian Federation. I am very pleased that we are dealing with this issue today, that we are talking about the Council of Europe. And I am glad that there are some actions of the Council of Europe that meet with the approval of the Polish government, because this does not always happen. As here, in the field of culture, we approve of such actions by the Council of Europe... It would be good if also in the area of the rule of law, our government would agree with what is happening in the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to a written answer to a question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. For the record, the Senators Gromko, Hibner, Szejnfeld, Sweden, Poor and Matecka have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the act on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, as amended by... Here are the protocols listed in the full title of this Act, which is included in print No 723. The Commission's reports are contained in prints Nos 723 A and 723 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the full consistency of the budget committee on the initiative that we discussed at the committee meeting. I'm gonna talk about this very briefly. On behalf of the government party, Minister Patkowski spoke at the meeting, who presented the scope, the reason, the purpose of which we absolutely agree. The termination of this agreement. The basic objective, the political purpose of the termination of the agreement, is to ensure that no financial transfers are made through the bank that the Marshal requested. However, we must be aware that if this happens, the Polish side, which is also the shareholder of this bank, must face the loss of EUR 24 million. The Ministry of Finance is declaring work to keep us from losing that money, to put it simply. This is an exit formula, as we have stressed, in a civilised way. We are aware that the other shareholders, at least some of them, have already taken such action. The approach of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, I hope I have not missed anyone It is very similar with regard to the termination of this agreement. I will add that one Polish company in this bank has a loan. As far as other issues are concerned, I would also like to tell you that the bonds are in the bank's hands or resources. I'm telling you, of course. only about the Polish side are the following. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (National Farms Bank) EUR 1 million 900 000, PKN Orlen EUR 1 million, Treasury EUR 10 million, GTC EUR 12 million. The committee unanimously decided to adopt such a solution as was proposed at the committee meeting. There was practically no discussion, there was full agreement about this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, a report on the work on the Law on the ratification of the Law on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation on which the committee was sitting at its 100th meeting on 8 June this year. Since my previous speaker has already basically referred to the substance of the law, I will only supplement this, because such information appeared at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. On 2 March 2022, the Ministry of Finance, in addition to Poland, also the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, the Slovak Republic and Romania confirmed the political will to speak. The Sejm voted in favour of 451 Members, no one opposed, no 3 Members abstained. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at its 100th meeting on 8 June following the presentation of the draft by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, Deputy Director of the International Cooperation Department, Mr Tomasz Skurzewski, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Director of the Legal and Treaty Department, Bartosz Soloch, without vote in the discussion, adopted unanimously, with 7 votes in favour, a draft ratification act. The Legal Office of the Senate did not make any comments either. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Which of the rapporteurs? [[Senator Świlski, maybe.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u203	Simple question: why should we return in euro if this bank operated with transfer rubles? Does he still work at the moment, in the sense that we have any advantage from him?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u204	Mr. Senator, I didn't quite understand the question of what to return. [[This is supposed to cost EUR 24 million. I think that's what you said.]] That's the value of our shares. [[All right, we're not getting them back. But why in euros?]] No, no. I said that Minister Patkowski... Isn't Minister Patkowski here? There isn't. We have been assured that the Ministry will make every effort to recover this contribution that is made within this bank.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u205	Is that enough, Senator? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Are the government's representatives authorized to this point? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Szejnfeld, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Szwed and Matecka made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No. 695, and the committee's report In print No 695 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present to you on behalf of the 2 Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions... Oh, we have a wider auditorium, and I welcome you warmly. ... I would like to present to you a report on the examination by the joint committees of the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsels, contained in print No 695. The project was directed by the Senate Marshal to the joint committee on 27 April. The Commissions on 18 May considered, at first reading, the draft submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption of a single text. What are we doing in this legislative initiative? What is it about? It concerns an exceptional professional group. The main idea of this profession is in the very concept of attorney, advisorus, that is, asked for help. The profession of attorney comes from Roman law. The lawyer has a unique ability to provide specialised legal assistance, the ability to apply law, de facto to advise, to help a person who is in need. And she is in need of a legal dispute to settle, it is best to show that such a person needs specialized help. And what does it turn out to be? Such a person has the right to expect expert knowledge of the best possible assistance. For the person concerned, this case is the most important issue at the moment, because there is a conflict there. And that person... Some of these people are in a particularly difficult situation because their financial situation makes them unable to avail themselves of the help of a lawyer they choose. They need to use the so-called. ex officio assistance from a lawyer financed by the State. Today, such a person may have the fear, the belief that perhaps this assistance is not what he would like to receive, because the State has organised the principle of payment to a lawyer in such a way that those of the lawyers who are engaged in this work are not convinced that the State in equivalent terms rewards their efforts. From our point of view, from the point of view of the citizen who benefits from such assistance, this may give rise to concerns as to whether the lawyer is making full, due, 100% diligence to represent the customer well. This case was dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal decided in April 2020 on the financing of the aid ex officio. He dealt with the 2015 Regulation of the Minister of Justice on the payment by the Treasury of the cost of unpaid legal assistance granted by a lawyer of his own motion. And what did the Constitutional Tribunal say? The Constitutional Tribunal stated that this regulation is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the resulting principle of equality, including the principle of equal protection of property rights. The contested provision, which was assessed by the Constitutional Tribunal, provided that a fee which is part of the cost of unpaid legal aid granted by a lawyer of his own motion, to which the State Treasury is liable, shall be set at least 1/2 of the maximum fee laid down in Chapters 2 to 4 of the Regulation, but must not exceed the value of the subject matter of the dispute. Further to that Regulation, there are provisions which provide that a charge shall be fixed at a rate higher than that laid down in §4 (4). 1 of that Regulation, not exceeding the maximum fee, shall take account of the complexity of the case and the workload of the lawyer's work. The provisions cited resulted, as it turns out, in worse treatment as regards the remuneration due to lawyers engaged in business ex officio than lawyers representing their clients on the basis of a contract concluded with them, i.e. the so-called. Attorneys by choice. In the case of the latter, the provisions of the same Regulation of the Minister of Justice, the Regulation of October 2015 on fees for lawyers' actions, set minimum rates to be taken into account in determining the charges on which the costs of legal representation and legal expenses are to be decided and do not give rise to a reduction. In addition, the regulation states that circumstances such as more time spent, greater value of the subject-matter of the dispute, greater contribution from the lawyer's work or complexity or complexity of the case allow for a fee to be set above the minimum rate up to six times the rate laid down in the regulation. What does that mean in practice? This means that there were other rules to pay lawyers out of office and other lawyers out of choice. The Constitutional Tribunal had to assess this situation legally. Furthermore, the regulation, which I had just mentioned, on the payment by the State Treasury of the cost of unpaid legal assistance granted by a lawyer of his own motion, following the October 2016 amendment, introduced new rules on the fixing of the fee payable to the lawyer of his own motion, but what turns out to be Even after the changes, they continue to be less favourable compared to the rules applicable to the choice of a lawyer by the client. According to the amended Regulation, the fee payable to a lawyer of his own motion shall be fixed at the rate specified by the Regulation, except that it may not exceed the value of the subject-matter of the dispute. However, in those cases where, due to the high level of commitment or workload of the lawyer, it is appropriate to grant him a higher salary, the fee may be set at a maximum of 150%. the fee set out in Chapters 2 and 4 of the Regulation I was talking about. In the case of lawyers, by choice of similar circumstances, they justify setting a fee of up to six times the minimum rate. An analysis of the amount of fees available to a lawyer and a lawyer by choice shows that, in the case of civil matters, employment matters, social security matters, for which the rate of the fee depends on the value of the subject matter of the dispute. The amount of the fee to be charged to the lawyer by choice is 50%. higher than the amount of the fee payable in the same case to a lawyer of his own motion. In other categories of cases, e.g. in matters relating to family law, caring law, criminal law, criminal offences, the rate of the attorney's choice shall be 100% higher than the amount of the same fee payable to a lawyer of his own motion. In the case of maximum rates, the fees of the lawyer of choice shall be 6 or even 8 times higher, respectively, than those of the lawyer of his own motion. The comparison of the amount of fees available to a public lawyer and a lawyer by choice in the selected categories of cases was also the subject of our examination at the committee meeting. What are the conclusions of this information? A lawyer appointed as an office attorney is often obliged to work for a salary of 1/3 or half as much as he would have received as a representative by choice. A persistent problem of differentiation of charges... This problem was, as I said, raised in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of April 2020, which the Court of Justice stated that it was not constitutional to differentiate these rates. This applies not only to lawyers but also to legal counsel. What have we proposed as joint committees? What is the solution adopted in the legislative initiative? The recommended solution is to give a new sound to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Law on Lawyers and the relevant provision of the Law on Lawyers by supplementing the authorisation of the Minister of Justice to issue a regulation on the cost of legal assistance granted from his own motion for guidelines which expressly determine that the Minister of Justice should determine the amount of fees payable under this law to lawyers and legal advisers at a level not lower than the rates which, according to the provisions issued under the Law on Lawyers or the Law on Lawyers, may be decided upon for the benefit of attorneys who have taken a legal representation on the basis of a contract with the client. Of course, we also have provisions in the draft that regulate that new rules will be applied in cases that have been initiated and have not been completed before the date of entry into force of the Act. What is the expected effect of regulation? This will ensure the compatibility of the provisions referred to here, with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, an increase of interest among lawyers and legal advisers in providing legal assistance of their own motion, and consequently an increase in the level of such assistance, which should in turn translate into an improvement of the existing state of affairs in the area covered by the guarantee of the right to court. In fact, this initiative is the way out. to meet the needs of customers who use this defence of the public. We, as a Polish country, are interested in the best of the best of the best to provide this assistance from the office, because a citizen who, due to his difficult financial situation, cannot sign a contract with a lawyer and must take advantage of the help from the office, cannot be convinced that this is at the expense of the quality of the legal assistance he receives. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of our legislative work, we have received many legal opinions for the project. I am only going to say: the project was supported by the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and the General Bar Council, and the Minister of Justice wrote in his opinion that the proposed regulations in his opinion did not deserve to be accepted and drew attention to the eternal budgetary problem. In this respect, however, it is difficult to say that budgetary considerations prevail over those who must benefit from this aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the joint committees have adopted the proposed regulation. We recommend that the Senate adopt the entire bill and, after its adoption, of course, refer it to the Sejm, having the absolute conviction that this case has a chance to bring everyone together in this Chamber. I would also like to remind you that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has assessed the existing rules as non-constitutional, is from April 2020. Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Matecka, then Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, as you mentioned, the Supreme Bar Council and the National Chamber of Legal Counsels have expressed their positive opinion on the draft law. Nevertheless, the Chairman of the National Judicial Council decided not to take a stand on this matter. Do you confirm that? Did this document reach the committee? In turn, the Minister of Justice, as you have already said, assessed the draft law negatively, only for financial reasons. Did the committee's meeting therefore refer to the actual annual costs which will entail the regulations proposed in this initiative, the regulations contained in this draft law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u209	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u210	Thank you, senator, for both your questions. Exactly as your senator signaled, the National Judicial Council did not take a stand on the proposed law, because she thought that I would quote a passage from her opinion here. It does not concern the scope of the cases to be assessed by the National Courts Council, i.e. it does not concern the functioning of the courts, whether in procedural or organisational terms, only legal aid, and the operation, organisation of this system is assigned to the Minister of Justice. Besides, the Supreme Court took a similar position. I have here an opinion signed by the first President of the Supreme Court, Prof. Małgorzata Manowska, which also states that the Supreme Court does not comment on the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen, now a cost-related element. Should this argument be taken very seriously, or should it be taken as a runway? Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the judiciary in 2022 uses budgetary data here. This is PLN 10 billion, 879 million. I remind you 'cause sometimes we forget about it. In fact, they are not the only means, by agreement, in a certain domain of the Minister of Justice. I, of course, called you the section related to this part that includes the judiciary, but I remind you that the Minister of Justice also has something like the Justice Fund every year. Only in this fund is the last data for last year The available funds that contributed to the fund's account were PLN 257 million. Therefore, I must say that this concern for increasing the cost of free legal assistance is a concern, as I believe, unjustified, in the sense that we should take special care of those who, due to their difficult financial situation, have to benefit from free legal assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, don't you think that if there are more money to pay for public defenders, this part, this section of the bar will be dealt with by large law offices and law firms, and they will be pushed out of the market by young lawyers, into the acquis? They're mostly doing this job today as public defenders. In that case, I would be convinced that this is also about money, that there is a possibility that large law firms will take over this cake. Some say it's a sucker today. Whatever you might call it, I would like you to answer whether or not you are concerned that these young lawyers today can gain more experience and practice there than when this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u213	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. Of course, each of these cases must be analysed, but knowing a little bit of the legal services market, I must tell you that even at an increased rate these largest law firms Believe me, sir. They will not be interested in office offices, because the rates for various legal aid, also linked to e.g. with the support of economic operators, local government, in the case of these larger firms are more interesting. Of course I'm not saying this zero-only, that it's not going to be so that this interest is not going to be greater among a little bigger law firms, not just those lawyers who run a one-man business. De facto, this is often the case. just a person with the rights of attorney, but I believe that this risk is nevertheless relatively limited and we will solve an important problem. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u214	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, let me quote from the justification of the original project, print number 695. Because of the fact that the amended article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Law on Lawyers requires the Minister of Justice to consult the General Council of Lawyers and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 The Law on Legal Counsels states the obligation to consult the text of the proposed regulation with the National Council of Legal Counsels, in Article. The 4th project was planned for a three-month vacathio legis. The same text can be found in print No 695 S. Well, someone would say: right, the justification should be consistent. Except the accepted vacathio legis is no longer 3 months, but only a month. Aren't you afraid that such a long vacatio legis initial was reasonable, had its reasons, and reducing it to 1 month was no longer logical?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u216	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u217	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't have the courage to talk about the lack of logic of the members of the joint committee. I'll take note of the changed records. [[It was your idea.]] I take it that the decision of the joint committees is such that it gives rise to a change in the provisions in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u218	Thank you very much. No further questions. Unfortunately, there is no government representative... was a representative of the Ministry of Justice invited? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: He's in the Seym at the polls.]] Oh, he's in the Sejm voting, which is why there's no representative... I therefore open the discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u219	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I am twice glad that today we have the opportunity to present this project. Firstly, because this is another effect of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions And in this Senate term of such initiatives, I must say, we have quite a lot. Secondly, I am pleased that this initiative really implements the demand for everyone's access to defence. So far, it has happened that it has been implemented in a way that has not been satisfactory to any of the parties. I hope that this change will lead to greater interest and greater effort of public defenders in these matters, in those matters of people who cannot afford to defend themselves because they are too poor. I would also like to assure Senator Mammothov... It seems to me that what Senator Kwiatkowski said in his very comprehensive report is true, that is, this market will not actually be owned by large corporations. That's my conviction. I think there will be access for everyone, because knowing also the way in which chambers distribute these defenses from the public office... I assure you that this is done in a decent way and it is so directed that they do not have the priority of large firms there. It's very rare. In fact, those who have a lot of work to do are trying not to add to their public work. So I am very happy that this project is being processed and I hope that it will find recognition of the majority in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to support this project unanimously, also hoping that it will be followed by a quick process in the Sejm, for several reasons. First of all, for formal reasons. Namely, we have a judgment of the Constitutional Court and it has been a while since it was not realized. So here we are clearly able to sort out a situation that should be settled as soon as possible. Second, it's a little bit like that in the case of a lawyer's profession, whose idea is a natural propensity to help another man in a difficult situation... I have no doubt here, many of my colleagues who graduated from law school chose this profession precisely because they were motivated by such beautiful altruistic motives, empathy, willingness to help another man. And it was an extremely worrying situation that the state that was responsible for the legal aid system... I would like to remind you of government projects and programmes related to the provision of free legal assistance, to put it mildly, not always successful. I will say this euphemistically: sometimes the entities with whom these contracts were signed did not provide this assistance in the way it should be provided. But in an area where the State is directly responsible for the organisation and financing system so-called. Public defense... Well, it was a disturbing situation that we consciously or unconsciously... In practice, it was the case that we had a system that caused that a lawyer, in charge of self-defense, knew that it was, however, a defence that he had to reconcile with other professional duties. Today, the symbol of self-defense is a symbol of this legal aid which the State pays for, but it pays, to put it mildly, against the standard that we would expect from you at such a level of civilization development. That is why I think it is worth ending this matter as soon as possible. It is worth ending it, first of all, for the benefit of customers who benefit from this free legal assistance, and secondly, because those who follow this most beautiful idea of pursuing the profession of lawyer, wishing to provide legal assistance, while exercising its most beautiful dimension, because they do not feel that they are de facto treated by the state in this part of the financial way. And I have no doubt that it will be for the benefit of those whom these lawyers represent, and that in a special way should be in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Adam Szejnfeld and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm ordering a five-minute recess until 3:15. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 10 to 15 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u223	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 730 and the report of the committee In print No 730 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Guests! The procedure for the bill is specific. We once made a commitment here that Ukrainian matters would be out of order and will be prosecuted as soon as possible. That's what happens to this bill. She went to the Senate yesterday at 10:20 p.m., and today the committees mentioned The Education and Science Commission, the Family Committee, the Committee on the Territorial Government and State Administration, met at 8.30 a.m. and took up work on this law. The bill is not simple and the work also, to put it mildly, deviated from the standard. The Senate's Legal Office had a very difficult task, because it was only night for the bill's analysis. We didn't have an opinion from the Legislative Bureau, but the legislator in charge of this printing did a titanic job and presented an opinion. She wasn't formalized, but she was verbally presented with a full, in my opinion, very professional opinion. And thank you very much on behalf of the members of all committees. This law is largely the result of the work of the government-self-government team, which has just been called to deal with the problems of refugees from Ukraine. Well, this mode is difficult to accept, which is why a lot of controversy and doubts were born during discussions in the joint committees. They also took place from a wide range of this law. I'm just going to mention some examples of things that this law regulates. E.g. excluding, in addition to Polish citizens, also citizens of the European Union from a group of persons who may be subject to special regulations; adapting the provisions of the Act to a situation where direct entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland from the territory of Ukraine is no longer necessary for the inclusion of Ukrainian citizens by the provisions of the Act. You know the peripeties associated with this change We are now introducing the consequences of the change that has recently been introduced. Further: to extend the catalogue of entities having access to the register of Ukrainian citizens to whom the PESEL number has been given, to the voivodships; to simplify procedures related to the reconstruction, renovation or modification of the use of buildings or parts of buildings held by local government units and intended for residential purposes; to ensure an adequate standard of protection of the rights of foreigners; to introduce a legal regulation allowing for the financing of tasks carried out for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens by district and voivodship teams for the purpose of determining disability. There are also changes concerning education law, renewable energy sources, important provisions concerning learning Polish, among others. by health care workers who came to Poland from Ukraine. There is also a very important issue of sealing the benefit system. After the discussion, quite wide, the committees decided to adopt a law without amendments in this state. They make such a recommendation to the High House. Unfortunately, this law, like many others that come to us, goes far beyond the matter which is its subject matter, and this, of course, was signalled by the Legislative Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, what does that mean? How wide? Could you describe in brief terms how wide and why?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u227	This is, for example. the case of the biogas plant, which is the Renewable Energy Sources Act, the matter of co-financing for the purchase of coal... Well, you can make an appointment that has an indirect bearing on refugee matters. There's a few other things that I'm not gonna mention from everyone's memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u228	Thank you very much. I understand there are no further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point, I would like to welcome a number of government representatives to the following persons: the Minister of Superintendent; the Head of the Office for Foreigners, Mr Jarosław Szajner; the Representative of the Government for Renewable Energy Sources, the Secretary of State, Mr Ireneus Oda; the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Education and Science, Minister Tomasz Romekowski. Which one of you... Would you like to present the position of the government or someone else? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, according to what we set up as a government-self-government team, we have prepared a draft of this law by the end of May. He was introduced two weeks ago in Parliament, in the Seym. Yesterday he was accepted by the Sejm and today he goes to the Senate. I would like to thank all those who took part in this work of the government and self-government team, local governments who supported this project very strongly, as well as all parliamentarians who work so that this project comes into force as soon as possible, for this work. As the rapporteur of the committee has already said here, this is a proposal to introduce changes which are systemic in nature. Until now, this aid to refugees has been provided primarily on a humanitarian basis, as aid aimed at organising accommodation, all the procedures related also to various types of accommodation and catering benefits. Today we are moving from this stage of work and humanitarian aid to the stage of system assistance. This means that all those who want to stay in Poland for longer will be able to adapt better in Poland thanks to this law. At the moment, on the Polish-Ukrainian border from 10 May we have such a trend that more people are leaving Poland than they are coming to Poland. All those who want to stay in Poland, if they receive this type of system assistance, will, in my opinion, have the possibility of better adaptation, better acclimatization in Poland. And that was in line with the provisions of the proposed law. I wouldn't want to extend the details. The most important points were pointed out by the President. I ask the High House to support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a second, please, because I don't know if the senators who can now report from a place of no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative would like to ask such questions. Senator Gogacz and Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u231	Minister, I'd like to ask you about the provisions of the article. 12a. There, only the date changes, i.e. Whereas, according to the current provision in the Act, which is in force until the amendments in question, it was possible to allocate a building which did not meet the technical and construction requirements for residential purposes... Now in the article. 12a, the date is changed, not 31 August 2022, but 31 August 2023. Of course, there are conditions such as carrying capacity, fire safety, hygiene, etc., but there is a record that these buildings do not have to meet the technical and construction conditions. Will these buildings be safe?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u232	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, it was a provision developed jointly by local authorities, the Ministry of Development, construction supervision, as well as the Ministry of Culture, which deals with monuments in Poland, so that it is possible to manage empty buildings as soon as possible. We know that at the moment, in connection with migration, these queues waiting for municipal premises in municipalities, cities will probably extend. And this provision was designed so that safety was also ensured.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u234	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me repeat this question that I asked at the committee meeting, because I would like the Minister's answer to be given here, in the plenary room. Namely, a specific case: Land-Zdrój, guesthouses which gave hospitality to refugees from Ukraine and function on the basis of the 40 zlotys which for 120 days are being spent at the moment... These 120 days will soon be over So they are on their side Phones with a question: what's next? Because some of these people are ready to continue to give apartments, but there are also those who tell these refugees: ladies and gentlemen, the funding is running out, you need to find another place to live. And the question is, what will be the outcome of the case for these refugees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u236	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, this 120-day dimension, which has been adopted, concerns individuals, families who take refugees under their own roof. It's always... This does not apply to provisions governing accommodation in collective residences. There will be the possibility of further residence. With the fact that when we talk to people who deal with migration issues on a daily basis, we hear that after these 3, 4 months we need to start moving slowly away from such organised assistance to help that will create a framework for functioning in a given country. As far as these 40 PLN for Polish families are concerned, this aid can be extended, transferred over a longer period. It will be over 120 days for those who most need this help. There will be a regulation. There is a delegation to the regulation which will indicate what groups of people will be able to continue to receive these measures. This has to do with helping people in particular, people with disabilities, elderly people, those who do not objectively adapt in Poland because they do not have this possibility. That's one thing. Secondly, with regard to these centres, where there is collective accommodation, there will still be local government agreements with voivodships. They'll be extended. Except that we must also assume that in the coming weeks and months, precisely in connection with the entry of these system solutions, we will aim to ensure that at least these centres do not develop anymore. There is no next wave, so we want to do as much as possible to make these people self-emancipate and function as best as possible. This important point will be September 1 this year when the children will go to school. Many people will have to decide what to do next in connection with the start of the school year. So we assume that the next step on our way, just after this law comes into force, will be September this year. Then we will be able to verify how many people will remain in Poland for longer. Because some of these people, some of the children of people who remain in Poland, still learn remotely in Ukraine. Let us say that there are many elements that determine the choices of refugees, including, of course, the procedures that we are preparing. As a general rule, as regards these 120 days in the case of collective accommodation, it is still... Well, this period could be extended.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u238	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a bill in front of me to help Ukraine. Of course, we're helping as citizens, and that's okay, but explain something to me. I've been a parliamentarian for 20 years. Art. 6 talks about renewable energy sources. Well, art. 7 talks about educational law, which is how we are supposed to support the Ukrainians. What does it mean that such a law includes a provision on energy sources? There's an article here. I don't remember any more about the development of roads and the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. Didn't you guys accidentally put in that bill? And you give work such a rhythm that we are not able to precisely, accurately familiarize with any additional elements? Is this supposed to be about us not being able to figure out why you're actually doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u240	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u241	Mr. Senator, this bill has been under review in Parliament for two weeks, so I am convinced that if there were any doubt about the actions or procedures that are written here, it would certainly be out of the question. These provisions indeed contain a number of solutions that go beyond the scope of the Act, since they are systemic in nature. And these regulations you're talking about are regulations that deal with coal purchases. The idea is that coal can be purchased as soon as possible so that the situation on the coal market that is currently in Poland can be changed. The common denominator of these issues, as well as refugee-related issues, is the issue of war in Ukraine and the situation which this war also caused on the raw materials market. I repeat: this provision of the Act deals primarily with a procedure that will allow a faster purchase of coal in order to help our countrymen buy this raw material. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u242	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u243	Minister, thank you for this analysis. I agree with the fact that another time-cezure, in terms of people from Ukraine who are staying in Poland and who will make these life decisions, will be September. I'd like to ask if you have any analyses, even variants... We know what the situation is in Ukraine, how difficult it is to write scenarios here, but I assume that in some variant arrangement you are analyzing it. Could you zoom in on what you're assuming, what scenarios, what we can expect after our vacation when it comes to staying here with our guests from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u244	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u245	Mr. Senator, it's very difficult to run any simulations related to the decisions of those who escape the war. Let me give you an example. We work very closely with the United Kingdom because some of our guests in Poland indicated that they would like to go to the United Kingdom, and that we managed to improve the process of issuing visas to the United Kingdom. This has been greatly improved, the British side has been very much involved in this process, and Minister Harrington, responsible for these issues, has been in Poland twice in the last two months. Then it turned out that a large number of people who made these visas remain in Poland and do not intend to leave for the UK, despite having these visas in their hand. Well, that should be explained by the fact that these people treat these visas as some kind of future policy when it comes to life plans. We plan to conduct surveys of refugees in the near future. I think that such a single survey on a large group of people on a national scale will show us some specific directions. Like I said, I've talked to refugees many times. I often go to the same place for the second or third time, I talk to the same people, and I think that these people month after month really change their life plans very much. People who arrived in Poland in the first days did not want to leave the border points at all, a large part of them did not want to leave because they hoped that the war would end in a moment and they would return to each other. So at first they had to be persuaded to at least go further, into Poland, so that there would not be, I would say, a crowd at these border points. As later I visited these people in other places, e.g. The people who came to the Western Pomerania were the ones who told me: we are in contact with the family, just a moment longer and we will return to the country. Unfortunately, at one meeting, I heard there was nowhere to go. And those people who say that there is nowhere to go are now wondering how to get their family to Poland. I'm talking about my parents first. And the people who have a place to go back and want to come back... But in their cities it is very often still dangerous. I know a lady who swore that she would not stay in Poland, and at the moment her children already go to school in Poland, she received a job and wonders how to get this life together in Poland. So plans change very often, and we need to understand that. Our plans must therefore also change, adapt to refugee plans. As I said, perhaps carrying out a survey will help us to make further decisions, lead us in some direction in terms of actions in the coming weeks and months. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u246	You're welcome, Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u247	I have a question and a request to the Minister. Will you be able to read the results of this survey later? I ask because it will indeed be a great knowledge in terms of diagnosis of some attitudes and what awaits us in the context of receiving our guests.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u248	Of course. We plan to do this together with non-governmental organisations that deal with these issues on a daily basis. Of course, it is not possible to take all the action immediately and in parallel, but it is certainly a plan that we will be implementing in the coming months. It is also important knowledge for the majority in the Seym or the Senate about what decisions to make so as to be able to create the best conditions for adaptation here. The results of the survey will surely be presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u249	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you, Minister. Oh, there's still... Senator Łyczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u250	Minister, we are anxiously looking at what is happening in Poland right now. Of course, we are all open to helping the Ukrainians in every way. The question is simple. What's next? We have heard announcements that the 40 zlotys you mentioned about it for those who are already 4 months... It's gonna be over. What will be the result? We can predict that. I'm watching what's happening in the country right now in the case of soft fruit. I have colleagues who have large crops and offered work to the Ukrainians. Some take up work, and some say, "No, we came here and we deserve it." And then what happens when we don't get the country or the outside gold? We're gonna... If these huge quantities of grain are not released in Ukraine, and it is likely not to be released, another 50 million t will soon come, which will be poured into the fields because there is no place to... We have a massive migration crisis ahead of us, migrations from Africa, mostly from North Africa, where people will starve to death. It's going that way. So what I'm saying is, what's next? What does the government intend to do in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u251	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u252	I think the best answer to the question of what's next is to make this law, so that as many people as possible take the job. This bill is going in that direction. Of course, we also need to understand that not all people are going to take part in the seasonal work, because people who had previously done various jobs in Ukraine have come to us. I work with labour offices that are doing an information campaign in many places, especially in places of collective accommodation, about the possibility of taking up a job in Poland, especially seasonal work. People who don't have a problem with this are taking this job. Persons who indicate that e.g. There's no babysitting... There will be the possibility of such care when we adopt solutions presented to Parliament by the government. I think that our role is, firstly, to create the best conditions and, secondly, to carry out this information campaign that we are trying to run in different formulas. I will tell you, for example, about the issue of health care, because the actions we are taking are carried out on different levels, on many levels. Here we are talking about just one issue, an information issue related to the labour market, but there are also issues related to, for example. with the birth of Ukrainian children in Poland. Among the mothers who give birth to children, it is organized on a large scale by the Minister of Health, an information campaign concerning, for example, compulsory vaccinations that exist in our country. There's really a lot of problems. We're trying to solve them as soon as possible, which doesn't mean they're gone. There will certainly be, although I would like to guarantee here that we are trying to respond to all kinds of signals if not systematically, through the solutions we have prepared, through the involvement of government administration in the field, labour offices or other institutions in cooperation with local governments, so that as many people as possible adapt as quickly as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u253	Thank you. Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make an amendment to this law on behalf of myself and the Senators' Group, but before I go to the content of this amendment, I will allow myself to draw attention to one point. It is a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws. I mean, really. This has already occurred at the time of the questions asked by the Minister, perhaps more attention has been given here to these other laws. It is not a special act, but it regulates various issues here. However, there are some issues that are really concerned with helping Ukrainian citizens, especially Ukrainian citizens, who are in a very difficult situation. We still hear in all the media how much crime is committed in Ukraine. We hear about murders, people's murders, gunshots to the back of the head, damage, rapes on children, babies, women, girls. We are investigating the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict, but there are no laws here that would somehow protect those women who were raped in their own homes. Many of these women have never been to a gynecologist before. They were girls who, in their own asylum, found themselves in a situation of oppression in their own home. What rape is during the war, I don't think you need to translate here in this room. It is used to terrorize the population, break families, destroy society, but it is also a tool to change the ethnic structure of the next generation. It's seen as a permitted spoil of war. In this way he also sees the rape of women Russian invaders who attacked Ukraine. Rape victims are victims of war crimes. Please bear in mind that after the armed conflict in Yugoslavia, during which 60,000 women were raped, an International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was established in 1993 and war violence, in addition to torture and extermination, was declared a crime against humanity. In 2002, the Council The International Criminal Court in The Hague, which was then founded, stated that rapes plus forced pregnancies as a result of rape were war crimes. I will no longer talk about Rwanda, where 250 to 500,000 women were raped, and the people who committed these crimes were people with AIDS. Up to 70% rape victims were deliberately infected with HIV. It was Rwanda that the concept of children of hate or pregnancy of the war was forged. It is a generation of lifeless adults who come from rape, and as children were rejected by mothers, families, society. Ukrainian human rights spokesman Ludmyła Denisowa reported the bodies of children under the age of ten with signs of rape and torture found in Irpia. There, too, a 20 - year - old pregnant woman had a miscarriage as a result of rape. On the other hand, 25 girls and women aged between 14 and 24 were systematically raped in the basement of one of the houses in Buch, in the Buch where we were. Many parliamentarians were there and saw the victims of these crimes. Some of these victims were murdered, but there were survivors. Well, 16-year-old Karina Jerszow was beaten, raped and killed in the back of her head. Another 30-year-old woman was raped in front of her husband, who was then shot. President Złenski said in one of his speeches that hundreds of rape cases were documented on underage girls, young children, even infants. A 83-year-old woman was raped in the presence of a disabled husband. Rape is a war crime. The rape victim is undergoing phase three trauma. The first phase is shock, numbness, terror, inability to believe what happened, fear of the perpetrator, shame, helplessness, humiliation. Because rape is a blow to the body and soul. Women are twice traumatized: the war that took away their sense of security and the rape that took away their dignity. The second phase is fear of stigmatization, drug conditions, depression, disorder of the current order of life. And the third phase, which is experienced by 80% Victims are PTSD. There are questions here. I can hear them, what this has to do with our bill. Yeah, a lot. To us, to Poland, victims from Ukraine are sent, raped women, girls. There will be women who, only in Poland, after these rapes, after breaking down, go to a gynecologist, often encouraged by those who live with them, and it turns out that they are pregnant. The amendment to the bill doesn't talk about abortion. She's only talking about one thing. If the circumstances of rape concern a Ukrainian citizen, it is the duty of the prosecutor, who follows the law, to determine this rape, or to issue a certificate on the basis of which this woman can make a decision... Because I remind you that this procedure in the case of rape is legal in Poland. But the D.A.'s office, the police, everyone stalls, the D.A. doesn't issue a certificate. And by the time these women got to Poland, it was a while ago. This amendment is only meant to introduce a seven-day deadline for issuing an appropriate certificate so that a woman can make a decision. Because we're not saying she's about to go into abortion. No. But the point is not to add to this trauma a trauma of the lack of choice. And that's the choice. I remind you: legal women in Poland have women. And one more thing. If these women were raped in Poland, then, of course, the prosecutor would have to take action of his own motion, it would have been easier. But these women were raped by these animal men. Let us not add another trauma to them, and let us introduce this amendment which I am submitting to the Marshal on behalf of a group of senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I thank you, Marshal Moravian, that on such a delicate issue of sad, tragic, heritage of armed conflict, such as cases of rape on women, including underage women... Thank you for finding a procedural solution to this issue in the proposed amendment. I firmly believe that we will all support it by looking at these exceptional and special circumstances. Probably every one of us who's been in Ukraine recently and had the opportunity to watch this tragedy on the spot when we were in Buch or in Borodzinka... These paintings will accompany us for the rest of our lives. At this point, I would like to address another point, thank the government for preparing this bill, and also note with satisfaction... I have in my hands a draft Senate legislative initiative in print 693, i.e. Act amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the law on education. And I am very pleased that some of the proposals from this project have been included in the government project today. And this speech of mine is really absolutely not meant to make any remarks that it would be faster if we adopted the Senate project, at least with regard to these changes. The essence of my speech is to thank the government for looking for an agreement with local governments to solve various problems. Mr Chezernaker spoke about an extremely important, fundamental issue, about what to do, so that as many of the people we host in Poland can introduce into such system solutions that will enable them to... The definition of normal functioning is, of course, a major abuse, because we are talking about people who have come here, to our country, often in a special way thinking about those who have left on the Ukrainian side, e.g. About husbands, partners who have guns in their hands today defending Ukraine. That is why child care matters are so important. This is important because a group of people who reside in Poland are mainly women and children, and all solutions related to formalized care of the youngest are extremely important. The project opens up the possibility of taking care of the youngest, it is possible to take care of them daily by the guardian for children. Here I would like to thank you for the fact that, in the course of the work already at Parliament level, the government was still looking for flexible solutions, so that, for example, it would be possible for the government to look for flexible solutions. This day care provider could take care of the child until the end of the school year, when it was subject to a school obligation, as this would prevent the gap between the day care period of the caregiver and the schooling period. From the signals I have, it appears that you are working out these solutions. That is why I would just like to thank here that the government is flexible in this project and that legislative work in Parliament was a further step in looking for such solutions, so that this project would simply be as useful and practical as possible. Of course we declare that I will probably be able to say this on behalf of all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. In view of the scale of this problem, when there are further initiatives that will be put in place in the context of practical problems that may arise in the event of arrival of visitors from Ukraine, in order to introduce them as widely as possible into the different systems that apply in our country, whether professionally or in relation to education or health services, we will, of course, be happy and efficient in this legislative work, as in the case of this project, to participate. Please pay attention to the way the second House of Parliament works on this project: the project affects at 22.20 p.m. one day and the next morning, the committee is already working on this project first thing in the morning. I think this is a demonstration of how in such exceptional situations we can work together, beyond political divisions. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! In general, it is a very necessary bill, generally, but how to read into details, there is a whole range of doubts. I'll start with Art. Six, which concerns renewable energy sources, zero connection, I repeat, zero connection to the aid to the Ukrainians. This is clearly aid to companies of the State Treasury, perhaps aid to investors who want to invest in biogas installations, perhaps, I do not judge that. I understand that for years, since 2016, the PiS government has implemented very consistently the policy of destroying renewable energy sources in Poland, because in 2016 it introduced a law that removed the possibility of developing wind energy, and what was then built in Poland was built on the basis of decisions and permits that were issued before 2016. I'm just informing the Minister. In Poland, investment time for wind power plants lasts about 8 years, so what has been built over the last years has been granted consent and permissions respectively earlier. Today, in this bill, especially in point 8, you want to allow the so-called. co-incinerating is co-incinerating, which was obtained in professional energy and to which raw materials originating in Ukraine were used... You want this energy professionally released from this obligation. To be honest, this has nothing to do with the help of the Ukrainians, and it has to do with helping the companies of the State Treasury, those coals that are enjoying huge benefits today. Even in the end... I don't feel like commenting on this article any more because the legal mess you're making in many places is already flagship. Another project had to be written, other places had to be made such proposals, and we had to discuss it calmly. But there's another article in another place, and it's a giant scandal. I'm gonna make an amendment in a minute. It's about art. 1. I propose deleting point 24. What's so special about this place? That's what Minister Chezernaker was talking about. The government has proposed to purchase coal and a subsidy to buy coal from the resources that de facto come from environmental and environmental charges, from the money that is to go to all that eliminates the source of combustion, namely coal. This is an outrage. Of course, you're making such a simple mistake that you're first pulling money from the national fund into the government's road development program, and then you're saying, "The Prime Minister is gonna dispose of the money as he wants, and he's gonna transfer it to the government's Strategic Reserve Agency." You can write stuff like that, but it doesn't change the fact that money comes from environmental fees and environmental penalties. The National Fund was created in 1989, the money was intended to be used to improve the quality of the environment in Poland, and you want to spoil the environment in Poland. You still don't remember, it's a bit pathetic that ministers don't know that in Poland between 50 and 80, and even 90 000 Poles die every year because of poor air quality. And you want to keep telling them, "Poison!" You shouldn't have destroyed the photovoltaics. The Clean Air programme really had to be implemented. The tasks that actually concern renewable energy sources had to be carried out over the years. What do you suggest? Hello? What? We continue to train Poles! We continue to train Poles! You're only doing this because of political needs. You murdered the photovoltaics exactly in April this year. I'm consciously using the term "murdered." One very large company, employing several thousand people, is in the arrangement process and the other will be in the bankruptcy process in a moment. Minister, there's nothing to laugh at, these are serious things. These are really serious things, and you can't solve these problems. Instead of supporting renewable energy sources, instead of taking care of heat pumps, instead of subsidising air solars, instead of supporting the development of transmission networks, instead of supporting the tasks that concern photovoltaics, you say: we love coal. You said so on the occasion of the power plant in Ostrołęka and return to this song, although there is no coal in Poland, it is, so to speak, at completion. The enchantment of reality is not going to change much here. I will remind you that the budget of the Government Road Development Fund consists essentially of 2 institutions. The first is called the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and the second is called State Forests. This means that these two institutions are to finance the purchase of coal in Poland. Well, congratulations on the idea. I can't tell you what I think of the authors of such a concept. That's the softest term I can think of. Environmental harmdoers. Yeah, 'cause that's the only way to talk about people like that. I had to repeat this to support RES installations. You could've done it for seven years. What did you do? We have the results and we see the results. This may entertain some, but the damage you do to the Polish environment is really far-reaching and they will be repaired for a long time. The budget of the Government Road Development Fund is about PLN 2.7 billion this year. I don't know what part of the Prime Minister will decide to move to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. Because this record allows the Prime Minister's decision to transfer this money. Well, if you were to write down that when you solve this problem, you really want to spend more money on support and speed up the development of individual RES-based heat sources, I would applaud. But what do you want to do? Burn more coal. Let's go poison. Come on... And that's what you're saying on the occasion of the Ukrainian aid bill. I don't know what kind of relationship they have... What is the help of the Ukrainians here? Well, poisoning the Poles... I really can't find this relationship. That's all a magician can understand. Big damage, huge environmental damage, the damage you're doing, really hard to repair. Mrs Marshal, I propose an amendment to delete this point. And already from this part, which concerns the support of the Treasury companies... I'm skipping that, although there's no connection to this bill here either. Well, in fact, there is a serious problem in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u260	Thank you very much, Marshal. In fact, I just want to briefly discuss the reasons why I am making an amendment. She is very technical, but the Ukrainian citizens employed by Polish employers will help her very much. According to previous laws, the employer, who employed a Ukrainian citizen, had to notify the district labour office within a certain period of time that he was carrying out this employment. The problem was that you did not specify, or we, the parliamentarians, did not specify how this notification was to be carried out. Some employers considered that if they mailed to the county labour office e.g. employment contract with such a person, a citizen of Ukraine, this is a sufficient form of notice of the office. However, these, you can say, notifications are not considered to be notifications. So just so there's no doubt... In view of the group you are referring to, that you have failed to comply with this obligation, the bill we are adopting today provides for this notification to be sanctioned. And that's all right. It is worse when it comes to the group that reported employment, but it did so after the deadline, i.e. After 14 days. And for this group this technical, however, facilitates and employers, and employees from Ukraine... For that right... In order to make this law easier, we are making this kind of amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'm gonna start with this... I also wanted to thank, in particular, Minister Chiefenernaker, for working primarily with the local government, because this cooperation is really working well and the signals from local governments are such that they say: may other ministries work as well as the Minister. But... It's just a small but. As regards refugees and what is happening in the field of assistance to them, I would like to draw attention to one thing. We need a consult. The way the bill is being processed is unacceptable to me. You can't pass us a bill tonight, which we're supposed to respond to in the morning. If we had at least a few days to better apply ourselves to this bill, surely those errors which unfortunately are in these aid laws could be eliminated. The aid provided by the government and by the State, and above all by local authorities and residents, is indeed exemplary, but there are also a lot of elements that need to be refined and improved. This famous 40 PLN, this assistance for 120 days... that's what we explained to each other today at the committee meeting. I do not know this, even though I do help the Ukrainians practically every day, Poles do not know what it will be like with these famous 120 days. We really need to know whether these 120 days apply to Ukrainians or to those who make these apartments available. I already know that this is about the Ukrainians, but it can really give rise to a lot of doubt. But maybe there's not enough time today to work harder on it. I am threatened by the institutionality of the state, which means that today the voivodships decide everything. We need more confidence in local governments. Today I have examples of halls that really stand empty, through which in a few months 2, 3 Ukrainians have passed, and other halls are full. But maybe we could talk about that with another revision of the bill. And last but not least... This bill has a lot of mistakes. I'll vote for her, of course. This help I commended earlier is really good, the state is doing its job well, but... I'm just gonna focus on the 40 zlotys. Minister, 40 PLN is very little for some and a lot for others. Unfortunately, an underdeveloped bill causes pathology to be born. What's this all about? There are people who are unable to support our guests for 40 PLN per day, who give up the help of Ukrainians hotels or resorts, for which 40 PLN is of course not enough, but there are cases that Poles e.g. In a small room they can place 10 Ukrainians. It is easy to calculate that 12 thousand zlotys a month can be received for such simulated assistance to the Ukrainians. Therefore, the average of 40 PLN is really to be improved. If in the future, God forbid, there was a situation like this if we were discussing it, it would really have to be improved. I'm just finishing my statement. As I said before, I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your cooperation with Minister Chefnacker. I hope that these successive amendments and subsequent versions of the legislation will be better and better refined, because we will just have more time for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last vote. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. Senators Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Stanisław Gawłowski, Magdalena Kochan, Ewa Matecka, Jolanta Hibner, Wojciech Nebula, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Jadwiga Rotnicka have tabled legislative proposals... and Stanisław Gawłowski, yes, have tabled legislative amendments. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u264	A joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted to the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws will take place 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. A meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u265	And yet the Minister has signaled... Would the Minister like to comment on these proposals or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes or no? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Yes, yes.]] Would you like to come up from the spot, Mr. Minister? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u266	I would ask that we be able to respond to these 3 amendments. Thank you very much for this discussion that took place here, ladies and gentlemen. During that time, I contacted the National Public Prosecutor's Office about Amendment 1. I would like to present the information I have received, knowing the delicate nature of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Public Prosecutor's Office has not yet received any information or complaints that would indicate that there is a delay in issuing such certificates on the origin of pregnancy from crime, leading to a time limit until which abortion is permitted in Poland. That kind of complaint or information didn't get there. Also to us, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the Ministry, which works with refugees every day, such complaints have not been received. I would like to add that, according to the information I just received, also from the National Attorney's Office... In examining the proposed amendment, I was informed that there is no way to meet the deadline of 7 days because, in the cases to be dealt with, the victim's hearing is held at a court hearing within 14 days of the impact of the request. I got this information, so I'm just handing it over. On a conflict-of-law basis... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If there is no such conflict in the belief of those making this amendment, I would like to repeat what I have already said. So far, neither the Minister responsible for war refugees from Ukraine and cooperation with refugees nor the National Public Prosecutor's Office has been informed that such delays occur. I referred here to this first amendment. I'd like to ask for a very brief explanation. on the second and third amendments by ministers responsible for cases where these amendments have been tabled. As these amendments have been very widely commented on, I would ask that the relevant ministers be able to address them briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u267	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Regarding the amendment tabled by Senator Kochan about the notification made by employers and the legalization of employment in Poland... We consider this amendment unnecessary, as Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 refers to the fact that an employer who has not fulfilled his obligation or has completed it later may make this notification within 14 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, i.e. we also include those cases which were included in the proposed amendment. I'll add something else to correct it. Well, I can't agree with the claim that we didn't clarify the form of the notification, because already in the first version of the law, the one that entered into force in March, the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 talked about the fact that the notification takes place through the IT system work. gov.pl, and the next paragraph specified exactly what data must be provided by this form. So it is impossible to say that there were doubts about where, who, and how to submit these notifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u268	That's it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Dear Marshal...]] Another representative of the Ministry, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Yes, Madam Marshal, High Izbo...]] But I'm asking this last amendment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment of peace, please? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u269	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. It is an amendment aimed at removing it from the Article. 1 point 24, relating to the purchase of coal, which is intended to ensure the safety of Polish citizens in terms of the price of heat. Well, High Izbo, the law on helping citizens of Ukraine has a common denominator, which is the tragedy of the war in Ukraine and the consequences that this war is causing. I think that this mobilisation of intervention coal purchases on world markets from a different direction than the Russian direction will also serve to ensure energy security for our guests, refugees from Ukraine. But I would also like to point out that today we have a situation of speculation in the coal market. The coal prices in the mine are below PLN 1 thousand, but on the commercial markets we know that there is a free market These prices reach up to PLN 3 000. The government has therefore taken steps to first fill the market gap that has arisen and continues to arise as a result of the cessation of imports of coal from Russia. At the same time, this coal was imported for the purposes of district heating plants or district heating plants, as well as for individual customers. It's not professional energy, it's the big energy that was the recipient of this Russian coal, but it's the individual one. Therefore, at the moment, the government had a choice or a search. And here I ask the marshal to forgive me, but Mr. Senator quite emotionally carried out his speech. The buttons with the inscription "low prices" and try to press them to enchant reality or take the actions that the government has taken. Namely, he bought coal to provide heating, warmth in Polish houses. For this purpose, the free resources available to the government from the wider public domain were proposed. Firstly, from the Intervention Stocks Fund, this is the fund at the disposal of the Minister for Climate and Environment And secondly, from the Government Road Development Fund. As far as the Government Road Development Fund is concerned, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, in accordance with the draft law which the High House is subject to, will be required to reimburse these funds, i.e. one and a half billion zlotys, by 15 August 2023. As for the Intervention Backup Fund, after the sale of coal, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will return these funds to the Intervention Backup Fund. This is a prudent, responsible action. I will just remind you whether I will pay attention, because I am also a Member of the Sejm, that an hour ago they were held in the Lower House of Parliament voting and there the opposition party shouted out to the Prime Minister who spoke that it was expensive. Well, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the action proposed in this law is aimed at combating the cost of it, in order to prevent it and provide heating, warmth for these citizens of our country, as well as for visitors from Ukraine, who still for various reasons. These are very diverse considerations. They will heat their houses with coal during this winter. And Senator Gawłowski also said in a very emotional, colorful speech that we do nothing about murdering renewable energy sources. And I feel called, Mrs. Marshal, to answer... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But I would like to ask, Mr Possibly, that all these other issues which are not related to the bill... I would very much ask...]] Mrs. Marshal, I speak as Secretary of State at the Ministry. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, excuse me.]] Thank you very much. And I would just like to say in one sentence, if your marshal would allow that there is no way that there is any harm or harm in the area of renewable energy sources. On the contrary, at the moment we reach 20 GW of installed power. With that, ladies and gentlemen, over half for the last two years. This is a spectacular investment boom in renewable energy sources, especially in the PV industry. Over 1 million prosumers versus 4,000 prosumers a few years ago. It is also a great development of wind energy, also on land, because over 1.5 GW of installed power has arrived in the last 3 years, and another 3.5 GW is waiting for installation in the form of contracts included in RES auctions. In 3 years we will have a total of about 28 GW installed power. I know that these are technical values, but really this whole investment boom and all achievements is the time of the rule of law and justice. Of course you can... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, thank you very much. Is there anything else about this bill?]] In addition, it would not be, Mrs. Marshal, or it would sound such a context that we want to poison the environment, as Senator Stanisław Gawłowski said, we introduced and launched huge support programs, including. Clean air programme with a budget of PLN 103 billion for the thermal modernization of buildings, for the exchange of heating sources, for the installation of photovoltaic panels, for the installation of heat pumps, also a special program for the installation of heat pumps, my heat intended for new buildings for heat pumps, finally my current program, the fourth edition of which we are doing this year with great success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u270	Thank you very much. I just, Minister, would like to remind you that Senator Gawłowski's attention was above all about this... Of course, the Lord was right to mention everything, but it has nothing to do with the bill we are proceeding, and I think that's what this remark was all about. Thank you very much. I'm ordering a break until 6:00 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 27 to 18 minutes 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u271	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 29 and 30 June 2022. The agenda will be provided to you by electronic means. Dear Senators, I inform you that on 12 September 2022 the term of office of a member of the National Council of Radio and Television appointed by the Senate expires. In view of the above, in accordance with Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (1) of the Senate Rules of Procedure sets a time limit for the submission of applications for the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council from 10 June to 30 June 2022, until 4 p.m. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Green Agriculture and Organic Production Act. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Senate Act No 712 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Tyszkiewicz and Senator Kobiak... See if the votes have been sent. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, we're waiting for Senator Tyszkiewicz's voice to slip away... There were 96 senators voted, 72 for, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] Next is the minority request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 79 against, 18 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 78 for, 18 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 18 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Hare... Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 77 for, 17 against, and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 78 in favour, 14 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 79 against, 16 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 78 in favour, 15 against, and two senators abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Arndt, check the signal transmission. [[I'll call him.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 80 for, 15 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 30]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on organic farming and organic production. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 724 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 80 for, 3 against, with 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 725 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Professor Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senate committee requests that the proposal to adopt the law be rejected without amendments, i.e. voting for 22 amendments and voting for the adoption of the law, together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u273	Thank you very much. Does the senator, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, still want to speak? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Bogusława Orzechowska's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 45 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Attention, amendments 1 and 14 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Boris-Damięcka, please check the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 51 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Attention, amendments 4 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bierecki could see if he sent a signal. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? This time, Senator Dobkowski, why don't you take a look and see if he sent a signal. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I do not hear any objections, I will put amendments 10, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 18 to the total vote.22 They are identical, increase labour rates by 0,25 for all professional groups listed in the Annex to the Act and have been voted together at the Health Committee meeting. There's no objection, so we're voting. Let me remind you that these are amendments 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18 and 22. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law and the Law on the profession of pharmacist. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 708 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on the profession of pharmacist. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on the next additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners in 2022. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of the committees requested amendments to the Act 726 A. I would remind you that the senators Artur Dunin and Magdalena Kochan withdrew their minority proposals in paragraphs 1 and 2 in print No 726 A. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee on the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 votes 42 against, four abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the next in 2022 additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Perpetual Books and mortgage and the Act on Processing Criminal Information. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 707 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics and the Act on Processing Criminal Information. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act 716 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 for, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Lamczyk, see if you've sent a signal. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 47 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] In the absence of... Now, let's get started in accordance with the article. 54 (1) (a) 1a Senate Rules of Procedure... In view of the failure to adopt a resolution on the law, we will proceed in full, in accordance with the article. 54 (1) (a) 1a of the Senate Rules of Procedure, to vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We are returning to the 11th item on the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Media have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate Print No 717 A and B. We therefore take this vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the act on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, in the form of a protocol, etc. If you don't mind, I won't read the rest. In general, in the wording given by the protocols listed in the full title of the Act in print No 723. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. These are Senate prints 723 A and 723 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results... Oh, one more senator. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the bill on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, as set out by the protocols listed in the full title of the Act in print No 723. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No. 695 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsels and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 730 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees after the joint meeting request that all the amendments tabled, i.e. three, and the laws be adopted together with the amendments. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u275	Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a formal request that the marshal does not put the first amendment to the vote. This amendment introduces a provision which does not concern the contested law and is clearly contrary to the Constitution, as confirmed by the Legislative Office. In similar cases, the Senate has taken a legislative initiative in recent cases in such situations. That is why I ask your marshal once again not to put Amendment One to the vote as incompatible with the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u277	Is there an objection? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u278	There's an objection, because according to the Legislative Bureau... [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone.]] My mic's on. ...The amendment is legislatively flawed in the sense that by touching the entity of the bill we are talking about, as if it were going a little beyond the presentation. [[Voice from the room: A little bit?]] I'll remind you... [[Voice from the room: It doesn't really apply to...]] I would like to remind you that in this law we are dealing with the same reservations raised by the Legislative Office, problems concerning eco-gas plants and financing from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management de facto smoking coal. Therefore, such amendments or provisions of the Act, adopted subject to the same condition of the Legislative Office, did not result in... [[But that's not true, Senator. There were no such reservations from the Legislative Bureau.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Yes, they were. And it would be good if the senator remembered yesterday... today's joint committee meeting, which took place from 8:30 a.m., and the reservations of the Legislative Bureau of the same nature. [[Thank you very much...]] With the difference... Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u279	We do not foresee a discussion at this stage of the meeting. There's a motion for rejection... [[Does the senator know the constitution I'm referring to? Do you know this record? 'Cause it doesn't seem like it.]] The legislator goes one step further... Mrs Legislator, explain why this proposal cannot be taken into account as a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, the scope of formal applications is governed by Article. 48 Senate Rules of Procedure. When the Senate amendment has been tabled, knowing the arguments of the Senator and the Legislative Bureau, it expresses its will by voting, simply putting this amendment to the vote. There is no possibility of not voting on an amendment which has been formally tabled. [[And can the legislator say whether this amendment is in line with the constitution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u281	This is a question of the kind of questions in the discussion that has been closed. Thank you very much, Mrs. Legislator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to remind you that during the discussion the senators Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Magdalena Kochan, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Ewa Matecka, Jolanta Hibner, Wojciech Nebula, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Jadwiga Rotnicka and Stanisław Gawłowski also submitted their conclusions. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 46 for, 51 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, no senator abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 59]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to a matter on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Poor. We measure the time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[You're welcome to refrain from...]] I would like to address to the Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnka, as well as to the representative of the government for Polish and Polish affairs abroad Jan Dziedziczak his statement on the continuing lack of resources for teaching Polish language in Germany. I received a reply to the previous statement that activities related to the establishment of a new school will be undertaken. It is said that a new institution will be established. St. Maximilian Maria Kolbe. But Polish schools teaching Polish language in Germany, despite the assurance that 40 million were transferred, I will remind you, from the funds for teaching German and other languages of national minorities They didn't get any gold. I believe that this is unacceptable, and I would very much ask you to take any action in this direction. I'm also asking this question. As school year 2021 ends 22, we are about to have a holiday and students will receive a certificate of how many students from 1 September will be able to learn Polish in Germany. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. Next is Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I allow myself to make 3 statements to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. They're very detailed, I just want to tell you very briefly what they're about. The first statement concerns the strategic investment programme and, of course, the distribution of money and the delivery of cartons throughout Poland, such navy blue cartons. It turns out that once again municipalities managed by wojites, mayors, presidents, who come from or support the ruling party, receive huge money, and hosts or municipalities, or cities that do not favor the rulers, receive of course very little funding. Let me give you an example of Świdnica. Świdnica did not receive funding for the construction of 20 municipal apartments or for the change of coal furnaces or for the renovation of the most important transport lines, but received funding, in the smallest amount, for the playground. What's the percentage? In the municipality of Marcinowice, administered by the uncle, who is a member or sympathizer of Law and Justice, the grant per capita is PLN 1 thousand 587 and in the town of Świdnica the grant per inhabitant is PLN 87. So these differences are huge. I am telling you what the situation is, asking you to ask that perhaps the Prime Minister, at the next hand, may have thought about it, looked at it so that it would be fair. My second statement concerns the opposition of the residents. It is a nationwide opposition, in Poland as a whole. My district of Lubiechów in Wałbrzych, but also the municipality of Świdnica, the municipality of Stare Bogaczowice, in relation to the course of the planned high-speed railway. Turns out no one consulted them. The only information about the planned consultations was on the website of the City Office in Wałbrzych. The residents didn't get any other information, they didn't have the opportunity to present their options, to talk about how they saw it. It turns out that again power, the PiS, pretends to listen, and really doesn't hear at all. The third statement, also addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, concerns sanctions imposed on Medmix Polska. It turns out that sanctions have been imposed on the company, but workers, almost 300 people, Poles as well as citizens of Ukraine, ask together with the Management Board to review these sanctions imposed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. They explained very carefully what the case of a minority shareholder of the Russian, an oligarch was like. Unfortunately, these explanations were not accepted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Employees who do not receive remuneration despite the positive decision of the National Tax Administration are asked to re-examine their situation and the situation of the company and change this decision, because it is really employees, Poles and citizens of Ukraine who are the most disadvantaged. These explanations are very detailed. It seems that in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as if the case had not been carefully looked at and the situation had not been analysed. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister to look at this company and the situation in this company again very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Ewa Matecka for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u286	Mr. Marshal, the statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. For many years we have been living in Poland in the face of a growing threat of permanent surveillance. The state is increasingly entering the sphere of privacy, removing citizens from this margin of freedom, which gave them a sense of relative security and did not paralyze vital life decisions. Since abortion law was tightened in Poland, and consequently women and doctors have been openly intimidated, we have seen a sharp decline in births and a further deepening of demographic collapse. Fear of the risk of loss of health or life as a result of legal and world-view terror even makes more and more Poles decide to be born abroad and not to reveal pregnancy in the country. In this context, the regulation signed by you, which makes it mandatory for the Medical Information System to have data on the pregnancies of patients, not only has the right to raise protests from women's organisations or concerns about legal environments, but, above all, to increase the fear of women reading new records as a further expression of repression by the state. After the heiter scandals and the Pegasus scandal, the credibility of government declarations is extremely limited at best. It should not be surprising, therefore, that the assurances from the Ministry of Health that the regulation is intended to support and not control women are treated with a far-reaching reserve. It is even assumed that the pregnancy register was created more for the DA's information than for the doctor. In the light of the above, I ask you to answer the question: how, with the dramatically low credibility of the state and the health department itself, will it be possible to ensure the security of the data entering the system? How do you intend to guarantee women that their pregnancy will not be the subject of an organ other than medical services? In the face of demographic drama and the atmosphere of fear among women and doctors, I ask you to address this issue urgently. For I have no delusions that the regulation in its present form will only contribute to the further decline of childhood in Poland, and pregnancy will make the risk increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-senat-44-2.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand there are no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 56]]
