ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u1	Resume session. I will call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marta Kubiak and Patrick Wichra, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers. Mr Patryk Wicher will be the secretary in the first part of the session. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, the Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point: Current information. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the defence of the Homeland, print No. 2052. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Foreign Trade Act on goods, technologies and services of strategic importance for State security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as the Military Property Agency Act, print No 2059. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the discussion on this item were heard by the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I kindly ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 11, - Communication with Poles abroad - at hours. 11, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u3	Thank you very much. Now, right? Two formal requests were received, ladies and gentlemen, although we agreed at Bureau and Convention meetings that, in view of the difficult situation, your Marshal would also confirm this, we will not now submit formal proposals. I understand the deal's been broken. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: No, I withdraw. It's okay.]] Mr. Chairman... Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're retreating, too. Thank you so much for understanding. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trade in Foreign Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency (prints No. 2057 and 2059). I kindly ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law on trade with foreign countries in goods, technologies and services of strategic importance for State security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency, print No 2057. On 2 March 2022, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence for First Reading. The aim of the project is to improve the procedures for the trading of goods, technologies and services of strategic importance in the event of threat to security and defence as well as the provision of assistance and support. The Act will facilitate Poland's aid to Ukraine, as well as improve our actions in the event of the threat of Poland. The Commissions: Economics and Development and National Defence, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 2 March 2022, ask the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print no. 2057 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Wojciech Zubowski. You're welcome, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations to the colloquials. You're welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u6	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice as regards the government draft law amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency, print No 2057. The Joint Committees: Economics and Development and National Defence at yesterday's meeting took note of the bill presented. It is not long because it has only four articles, but it is very important from the point of view of the current situation abroad. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce changes to improve the procedures for the trading of goods, technologies and services of strategic importance, in particular in the event of a threat to the security and defence of the State, the implementation of the national interests of the Republic of Poland in the field of national security, the fulfilment of its international obligations - which, please countries, perhaps the most important, most important - of providing assistance and support to entities governed by public international law. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the Law and Justice proceed without delay to further work on the law and adoption of the solutions proposed in the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Paweł Pontylius. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're gonna rally over a bill that came into the Sejm yesterday. Knowing that we have an emergency situation, we do not oppose the content of this law, but the procedure is so risky that, many times in this House, speedy, even sprinter, the process ended with the need for further amendments, so creating legal noise when something was in force for 2-3 months. We do not question that the rules for transferring military equipment outside Poland must be simpler. So far we have had such a principle that military equipment had first to be withdrawn from the Army to the Military Property Agency and only then was it sold or passed abroad to our various allies or entities who asked for it, and there was a government agreement to do something like this. This was the story we had in 2007, when it was the problem of transferring the equipment, moving it from military equipment to the Agency, so that we could support those who asked for it. It took many weeks - and it took time for many institutions, many people in these institutions - to make formal transfers. We're a little worried about whether we're sure we're covering all the situations in this bill, and we're having second thoughts about that. I was talking about it on the committee yesterday. Today there are groups of citizens, associations, organizations that are trying to pass on bulletproof vests, helmets of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the current law on trade with foreign countries in strategic goods, technologies and services does not allow this to be done in a more efficient way than before. Granted, the Minister assured us that the signature on behalf of the so-called. the final user, end user, will now be able to submit the military attaché of the Ukrainian embassy in Warsaw, while I fear that further for many organizations that are between the Polish border, in queues on the Ukrainian side of the border, with refugees, and there they help, as well as get the opportunity to organize transport just vests and helmets... This is where they can go, I'm afraid. We urge the government to simplify these rules on two issues. The point is, first of all, to reduce the time it takes to issue an export licence for such equipment - because further, bulletproof vests and helmets are classified as military equipment. I don't know if it's entirely right. That was also what Mr Lasek spoke about yesterday. The point is not that we are only making a breach for government institutions, and we are not thinking about the whole picture, because many citizens, many organisations, many such godly initiatives could also help those in need. Even medical packages, dressing packages that indicate that it's military, are licensed and specialized. This is a problem, and probably these dressings, these packages will be needed today in many cities in Ukraine. There is no way to do this through these organizations, or the procedure is much more difficult than it needs to be. Because we're not talking about arms exports, we're not talking about ammunition exports. We are talking about things that can help citizens, city defenders in Ukraine. So that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this project, but we call for the government, at least during the Senate, to reflect on the possibility of introducing certain exemptions when it comes to equipment which is not armament or ammunition of strict sense. This would allow for faster processing and sending of this equipment abroad. That's what we're calling for, Minister. And that's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u9	Thank you, sir. It's the medical packages that you can buy freely with Ortez. I organize it myself. The problem is, they're not on the market. [[But military?]] Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the amendment of the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency is an expression of the changes that have taken place in the past days in the field of security, as well as in the field of geopoliticals and geostrategics. Our world has changed forever and our priorities for NATO or European Union membership have become new. Our strength and security depend not only on ourselves, but also on established and stable alliances. This Act undoubtedly creates legal mechanisms that can be applied to actively and effectively pursue the objectives of national security in the new realities of international policy. We need tools that will be a key element in making changes that improve the procedures for trade in strategic goods, technologies and services. The changes introduced are intended to help meet the international obligations of Poland, but also to enable even more effective assistance, support. Today, the solidarity of Poles and Poles with the people of Ukraine is supported by this unparalleled solidarity - these are thousands of people who provide humanitarian aid to refugees in a selfless way. On Thursday 24 February, as the President of Ukraine said, who today became an icon and a symbol of resistance to Russia's aggression, it was not a bang of bombs, it was the sound of a new iron curtain that awakened the inhabitants of all Europe. Ukraine has been fighting an uneven fight against the Russian Federation for a week. Violent, aggressive, unprovoked assault in order to destroy Ukrainian statehood must be punished by all countries for which the principle of self-determination of nations and peaceful cooperation is the foundation of values. Before our eyes, Russia wants to force itself to change the borders of independent and sovereign states. Today we are all solidarity with Ukraine, because the blood that this heroic nation is spilling today is a sacrifice made on the altar of freedom. Only in the last few days have thousands of Ukrainian civilians been murdered by bombing, rockets fired at the command of Russian officers. Human rights are being violated every hour of this war. The population of Kiev, Kharkov or Odessa and many other cities and villages of Ukraine became the target of the Russian war machine. We all hope that the assistance we provide to Ukraine will make this country free, sovereign and safe. The place of Ukraine is in the European Union, it is among the democratic and free states of the international community. The free world cannot be terrorized and allowed to suffer innocents, it cannot be watched bombing hospitals, schools and kindergartens. Russia has led to the situation that not only Ukrainians but also all Europeans fall asleep without knowing what world they will wake up in the next day. By creating the law, we must bear in mind future needs related to the defence of our country, and at the same time create a space for cooperation which strengthens and connects all Poles regardless of gender, faith, political views or other preferences. All of us in these dark days are with the people of Ukraine. This law is therefore an expression of this solidarity and a contribution to building a new security system for all Poles and Poles. The Left wants Poland safe, solidarity and responsible. In view of the above, we are in favour of this Act and of its adoption as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u12	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will support this bill, because today we need simplifications, facilitations, procedures cannot continue, decisions must be made here quickly when it comes to helping the fighting Ukraine. Today the world has faced the spectrum of war, we are all engaged in some way to support the Ukrainian people in the fight for independence, in the fight for world order, order in Europe. We are watching a heroic battle between soldiers and the Ukrainian people. Praise, recognition and all support should be given to those who fight so heroically for their homeland. On the other hand, we are seeing the drama of the Ukrainian people, mothers, children who, fearing for their lives, move to the west of Europe, to the south. I am from Podkarpackie Voivodeship, there are four border crossings. The situation is dynamic, it changes from day to day. Of course, there are various problems, they need to be solved quickly, they need to be reacting quickly. And here is a request to all government structures to extend the coordination of local governments to a greater extent, because there is a general response from all organisations, all institutions, the disorganized population, young people, schools, to help all those who are on one side or the other of the border. This is very commendable and it is necessary to thank all those who have committed themselves to this help. There was really no such situation in Poland that such a common break, so huge support for those in need, for those who can no longer find a place in their homeland, would continue. Once again on behalf of the club, I thank all those who are involved in this assistance, in all these collections in different forms, in different forms. We see it in every village, in every village, in every organization, it's really something wonderful. We are all aware that we are doing this for the Ukrainian people, but we are also doing this for us, because moving the border west is also a threat to us. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, my club will support these solutions, but, as the predecessors said here, this bill must be applied... We have confidence, right now we must have confidence in the government - because we are sitting and making decisions under special conditions - that it will not be used for individual purposes, let's say, because that would be shameful. None of us expect that, but sometimes these situations happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u13	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the position of the Confederation's circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u14	In the early age of the COVID, I had the opportunity to make a speech here, when all these new footnotes were formulated, quickly clashed. Then in a ton of laughter, now this is it. Less and less funny, I was talking about the fact that when the war comes, we're gonna be on our knees writing the front supply laws, the soldier's profession, some kind of tank approval. I've already had the opportunity to remember this once before, and I have to remember it once again, because that's what's happening. It turns out that once again the Polish state has rules on how many centimeters from the windowsill is to be some paint or what area of the premises is to be occupied by the window, and there is no efficient implementation, proven, well-thought-out regulations in case of serious crisis situations. Once again, at the last moment, we are given legislation, which, especially as a small circle, we do not have the opportunity to properly analyse, we do not have the opportunity to consider what they may have. We're taught by experience: when the COVID pandemic was a chance to do some kind of scam, you tried it. When there was an opportunity to promote impunity+, you tried to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u15	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u16	So we don't trust you to try to do something again. Of course, the situation is what it is. We will try to support this with our eyes closed, in the name of the seriousness of the situation, hoping that you are not up to anything this time, but this country cannot do so. I call for an extraordinary committee to be set up to review the rules on crisis and emergency situations, so that, when the war comes, the storm, I don't know, the volcano explosion or the fall of an asteroid, we don't have to write any more laws on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u17	But we write them, sir, and you're just criticizing them. Mr Mirosław Suchoń - on behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u18	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. High Izbo! The purpose of the draft law presented by the government is to introduce changes to improve the procedures concerning trade in goods, technologies, services of strategic importance, in particular in the event of a threat to the security and defence of the State, the implementation of the national interests of the Republic of Poland in the field of national security, the fulfilment of international obligations, as well as the provision of assistance and support to entities governed by international public law. High Izbo! Currently, on the basis of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 (4) of the Act on Trading in arms and dual-use items is required to attach such an import certificate or end-user's declaration to the application for authorisation. As a result of the adoption of this draft law, it will be possible to apply exemptions in certain cases and this will no longer be necessary. Of course, the situation in which our country and our region of Europe are located requires extremely efficient, rapid action, which can normally be imposed on certain procedures, but today these procedures make aid ineffective or delaying. And these types of actions that facilitate the process are extremely necessary. Today, the whole society is in a state of excitement when it comes to helping Ukraine, so that the Ukrainians who are fleeing today from the war caused by the Russians will find refuge in our country. At the same time, there is a war in Ukraine that requires some solidarity from us. Wherever we can, we should help. This bill is intended to allow for more efficient assistance. The public, on the other hand, is to be thanked for the heart, for their commitment, for not remaining passive about what is happening today to this treacherous Moscow act. Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure for adopting a law is indeed very fast. Yesterday, a committee meeting was held, the bill was passed over the divisions, there was no objection, but really giving such a procedure makes us think very strongly about this (the bell) whether a detailed review should be made due to today's situation. Poland 2050 will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting time: 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question: Will the implementation of this law facilitate not only the provision of goods and services, but also the preparation of defence structures of Poland for actions in the field, so to speak, the equipment of appropriate state units in the event of a direct threat to our homeland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u21	Next question - Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Simplifying all procedures that will facilitate security for Poles and Poles today, but also helping our eastern neighbours and accepting the entire migration movement, people fleeing from the war to our country, is extremely important. On this occasion, I wanted to ask you a little bit on the other side. The Sejm was scheduled to appear at this meeting. We know well that we need changes to legislation that will help take care of a group of people fleeing, women, children from war areas. We also need to finance local governments on which part of the care of people coming to the Republic will fall. Will the government really propose concrete solutions in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome. There isn't? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] We are waiting, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is extremely important and necessary at this time. But let me ask you one thing. How will the State be sure that the transfer of dual-use technology, goods or services to the other State without formal requirements will be safe and will not contribute to the proliferation of risks, e.g. construction of weapons of mass destruction or other types of advanced technology weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency is a very important act. In the face of war with our eastern neighbours, we must do everything beyond any division to improve it. The Ministry cannot have its hands tied to act and react as soon as possible. Minister, a question for you. What is your discernment when President Andrzej Duda will sign this if it goes on a fast legislative path? Of course, the Left will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How important it is to maintain international peace and security, we already know. I think the whole of Europe and the world know that very well. An important element is the systematicisation of foreign trade in goods, technologies and services of strategic importance for State security. Minister, what is the date of entry into force of this law? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u29	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the government in connection with the strategically important technology and goods trade legislation that has been prepared and processed. Firstly, it is the whole verification procedure and so that the State has full knowledge of who and how it trades. Have you considered that, as in the case of prepaid cards for telephones, you could have as a modern formula control over this trading and export of goods abroad? And I'm signing off on all the questions that are coming from the speaker's office regarding the permission to carry certain goods. We have not yet talked about medicines, and in this respect we need a special procedure so that medicines can be delivered to Ukraine. On the one hand, we have our security as a country and on the other hand we have our help. In this respect, there must be a need for good cooperation (the bell). I propose that we consider a verification procedure such as prepaid cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that, in matters of national security, military security, we all speak with one voice today, and it is good that this law, which is being conducted within the framework of the fast legislative path, will be adopted in order to strengthen the security of the Republic of Poland, but also to help the bloody Ukraine, the soldiers who defend themselves against the Russian barbarians. It is also important that another vote comes out of Poland on simplifying EU procedures, so that the announcement of buying military equipment for defending Ukraine is realized as soon as possible. Finally, the European Union speaks with a Polish voice, this must be used today and done everything to eradicate and eliminate the pro-putinist and pro-Kremlin influences in the European Union. Today we must help Ukraine - Poland and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u34	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're really doing this at a special time. At the moment when there is a regular war going on with our eastern neighbour, which Vladimir Putin said was independent and free Ukraine. But this situation also requires some changes, including legislation. Before I go to specific questions, I would like first of all to thank thousands of Poles and Poles, but also Ukrainians living in Poland for their commitment, for helping Ukraine and the Ukrainians both in Poland and with our neighbour. Minister! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a real need for urgent changes, including in the field of legislation - both at the level of laws and regulations - in other areas, including. on the legalisation of stays lasting more than 15 days, on access to the labour market, access to educational establishments, crèches, kindergartens and schools, and on education subsidies related thereto, as well as support for local government. I would also very much like to ask for a job on this issue (the bell) as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked a similar question yesterday at the committee meeting. On the other hand, it seems to me that this is something that needs to be said very strongly here and very strongly to highlight the issues of facilitating the transfer of such materials, which may have a double application, for example. materials or items which are used for defence, vest type and the like. Well, yesterday, the minister's side was still like this, I'd say, a red light. I understand that you can always find a key that will allow you to pass such, I would say, an object that is used for personal protection. However, I have a question for the Ministry: Isn't this the moment to turn on the green light in the case of personal protection articles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u37	Thank you. And Mr Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, each of us is grateful to providence for being one of this, not another circle of civilization, culture, of this national community of people of solidarity. Today, Poles in every corner show this solidarity in various ways. This solidarity of Ukraine is also shown by the Polish state and its various institutions. Minister! I would like to ask you a question because this solidarity and this assistance will be long-term. We are talking about technologies here, and today in Ukraine, in Ukrainian hospitals there is a lack of basic medical materials, medicines. We also know that the procedure for transmitting these materials and medicines is complicated. Does this bill also provide for the simplification of these procedures so that these vulnerable, sick, injured people (the bell) can receive this help? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u39	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Minister Piotr Uściński to speak and answer the questions put. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs and Circles very warmly for supporting this law. We're going in the same direction. We are in solidarity with our neighbours, we know that we want to help them, we do so because we want to help them, but we also do so in the Polish national interest and for the safety of our residents, Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law will enable, facilitate the free transfer of equipment by MON and RARS, and will cover transactions between governments. Ladies and gentlemen! I answer questions. Is this change safe? Yes, of course, this change is safe because it concerns MON, RARS and transactions between governments, so there is no risk that any unwanted transactions will take place under these statutory amendments. The question was when this change would come into force. As soon as possible, of course. Depends on that... I don't think there's gonna be a problem in the Seym. I am firmly convinced that work on this law will also proceed quickly in the Senate. There were also questions not related to our Ministry, because our Ministry of Economy, the Minister of Economic Affairs, deals with this trade, procedures, not specific transactions. We're preparing and handing you over... At the moment, the Sejm is working on an amendment to improve the procedures for this transfer of goods, but we are not talking about any specifics and I am not authorised - or probably not at the moment - to provide detailed information on what specific transactions this will involve. There were also questions concerning e.g. access of children to schools, speeding up certain procedures related to the registration of refugees. This, of course, is also the subject of government work. I know it's being prepared by the family department by a special law that will speed up certain procedures. Children are already admitted to school. The rapid actions of the Ministry of Education ensured this. Children who come from Ukraine already learn in our Polish schools, in Polish classes, even though they do not even have any documents. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Mr Rychlik's question was about medicines, what was needed to save life and health. There are no border restrictions here, there are no restrictions on the transfer to Ukraine of these goods. As your marshal said, there is simply a problem with access to them on the market, because they are very needed and as soon as they appear, they are passed on to Ukraine. Thank you very much for this procedure. I am happy and thank you all for supporting our Ukrainian brothers together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence very much for their thorough but very positive work during the meeting of the two joint committees and for their strong support in the vote. Given the importance of this law, both in order to strengthen our assistance to Ukraine and indirectly to strengthen the security of Poland, I ask you to support this law also in plenary vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u43	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We are returning to item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. Unfortunately, Minister Szynkowski a.k.a. Sąk has not arrived yet. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] How's it going? There isn't. Then we'll proceed with question eight. The question prepared by Members - here is a long list - the Civic Coalition, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers: on the loss by Poland of PLN 7 billion due to the failure by the Polish government to submit a long-term strategy for the Renovation of Buildings to the European Commission within the deadline. The question is asked by Krystyna Sibińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the European Commission, buildings are Europe's largest energy consumer and consume 40% energy and generate 36% greenhouse gas emissions. This is due to the fact that most buildings in the European Union are not energy-efficient and are still mostly powered by fossil fuels. According to the report of the Confederation of Leviathan and the Energy Forum Impuls for Poland published in May 2020, the thermomodernization of buildings would reduce the cost of heating Polish houses and apartments by 60%, and would also help to create an additional 85 thousand. jobs. This is extremely important, especially in the current situation where energy prices are rising rapidly, and this is actually true for all media: electricity, gas and even coal. Thermomodernisation of buildings is the fastest way to help households reduce energy expenditure. Within the framework of the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, an instrument has been created from which funds can be obtained for actions related to energy efficiency improvement. The declared amount for Poland is over 1600 thousand. EUR million, or about PLN 7.3 billion. Poland could become the largest beneficiary in the European Union in this area, but so far, only Poland has not provided the European Commission with its Long-Term Renovation Strategy. A failure to adopt a strategy means that there is no access to European Union funding for the thermomodernisation of buildings. This is surprising, all the more so as the period was extended until October 2021 in relation to the pandemic. On the website of the European Commission are all documents except those from Poland. Therefore, I have questions: Is the Polish Long-Term Renovation Strategy ready? Why didn't the government submit this document within the deadline? Can we afford to reject more than PLN 7 billion (The Bell) and stop thermomodernization? Does the government intend and when to correct its failure to do so? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister Piotr Uściński, Minister of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, a little correction. The long-term strategy for Building Renovation was adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers of 9 February this year, which is close to a month ago. It has already been notified to the European Commission. This document is the result of inter-ministerial arrangements, public consultations, which enjoyed a very high interest in the construction industry, local governments and public entities. We have had a lot of comments, a lot of legislative work in the preparation of this document, and therefore we acknowledge that there was indeed a delay in relation to the planned deadline required by the relevant European directive, but this document has been prepared. Poland has been in constant dialogue with the European Commission on the strategy and has kept representatives of the Commission informed of the progress made on the document. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as funding is concerned, we have key sources of funding for renovation of buildings in the medium term, i.e. by 2030. These include: Modernization Fund - some EUR 4 billion between 2021 and 2030, assuming, of course, the sale of emission allowances, the Instrument for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Resistance - EUR 23 billion. I think that the NPO should be adopted as soon as possible and then there will also be EUR 23 billion in grants, while in the near future it should be in the form of loans of EUR 11.5 billion, of which more than 42% will be allocated to climate and biodiversity activities. The European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund allocates a total of EUR 21 billion to the second objective: a more environmentally friendly low-carbon Europe. This is planned for 2021-2027, in line with the draft partnership agreement. The Fair Transformation Fund - over EUR 4 billion, also for 2021-2027, in line with the draft partnership agreement. The Ministry of Development and Technology believes that there is no risk, there is no risk for the European Commission to suspend refunds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Zofia Czernow with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is good news, Minister, that this strategy has been delayed, but it has been submitted and accepted. But I wanted to ask you about the next step. I wanted to ask how much of this money would go to local governments and how they would be passed on to local governments because local governments didn't know that. And every government has a strategy to renovate their cities, towns. You mentioned extra funds. All the money is needed and I think they will all be used, but for example. The Fair Transformation Fund or other funds have already defined expenditure lines which do not concern the renovation of buildings. So that if the Minister were to focus on the answer to the question: How much money will local governments receive in the form of state aid and from the Union for the renovation of buildings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u49	Thank you very much. I kindly ask the Minister to provide an additional reply. Minister Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u50	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. I was also a local governmentman for many years, a total of 17 years, and I know that local authorities are particularly involved in thermomodernization projects: thermomodernization of public facilities, support of the population, society, in terms of thermomodernization, exchange of furnaces, warming of buildings, window replacement. And this deep thermomodernization, and this shallow one - that's a good goal when it comes to using the help of local governments. I will not now give you detailed information about all these programmes, we can give it in writing, but I will tell you, answering this question, that we are preparing a law - it is currently in the government legislative process - which, within the framework of the NPO, shows what actions will be taken in cooperation with local authorities. This will, for example, support local authorities in the thermomodernization of residential facilities. It is not only, as has been the case so far, about public facilities, in most schools, which are already thermomodernized, but also about collective residences. The construction of modern residential buildings, such as those which meet the highest standards and even higher than the standards of energy efficiency laid down by law, will also be supported, and to a very large extent. Of course, for the time being, this is a law prepared by the government, not yet adopted by Parliament, but I will tell you that up to 95% of the cost of building such buildings with a higher environmental standard will, although net amounts, be refunded by the KPO. Thank you very much. [[Can we get the information in writing?]] Of course, we will give you detailed information in writing. Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question seven. The question put by Members Grzegorz Lorka, Barbara Bartus, Waldemar Andzel, Elżbieta Duda and Joanna Lichocka, Members of Law and Justice, on the actions that Poland takes in the international forum in response to the escalation of Russia, including as a country holding the presidency of the OSCE. The question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, sometimes sharing with Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u52	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! President Lech Kaczyński in Tbilisi in 2008 said: Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, then the Baltic States, and then perhaps my country. These are famous words, quoted today. But also in September 2010, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński wrote to the ambassadors a letter warning against Soviet Russia, at a time when the West, when America withdrew from its operations in the field of missile shield installation. When we asked the Minister this question last week, many people said that there would certainly be no war, no armed attack, because it is 2022. History, on the other hand, is written in front of our eyes. Russia's aggression supported by Belarus against Ukraine is a clear violation of international law. And that's what happened. It is a direct attack on the Euro-Atlantic security architecture and the entire international order. Minister! In this situation, I would like to ask about one element as president of the Polish delegation of the Sejm and the Senate to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, where Poland is also taking the lead. The OSCE has so far been very static, but today, under the leadership of Poland, it is taking action and diplomatic action is very much needed. Minister, please tell us what action you are taking in Poland, including within the OSCE. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u53	There's four minutes left for your MP, so... [[I'll ask them with Mr Rychlik.]] Okay. I'm asking you to answer me. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, In answer to this question, I will say that our presidency in the OSCE has actually come at an unprecedented time. Poland uses this tool, which it has received in the form of the OSCE presidency, at the same time makes maximum use of it. It is clear that the OSCE condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine at an extraordinary meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council on 24 February with the participation of the President-in-Office, Minister Zbigniew Rau and Heads of diplomacy of other countries. Almost all States participating in the OSCE condemned Russia's actions as an unacceptable act of aggression, violation of international law and expressed solidarity and support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The same applies to the OSCE parliamentary assembly, as you know very well. But we've taken action before. This was a proposal for a special platform for dialogue between the OSCE, including a meeting, a visit by the OSCE President to Moscow. These actions have not been successful. It turned out that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, even actively taking action, was unable to stop aggression. Today we are still trying to use this tool. As Chairman of the OSCE, we meet in four formats with the Secretary-General of NATO. Minister Rau, Jens Stoltenberg, meets with the High Representative of the European Union Josep Borrell and the Secretary of State of the United States Antony Blinken. Such meetings have been held regularly in recent days. In response to the dynamically changing situation, we called four extraordinary meetings of the OSCE Permanent Council, including two at ministerial level. We are coordinating with the OSCE Secretary-General Helga Schmid. We are also committed to the wider involvement of autonomous institutions such as ODIHR, based in Warsaw or the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities. We must also say to ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that this tool, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has not been able to stop aggression. Today, it is a platform that has limited capacity for action. That's why we focus on other possibilities. Polish diplomacy is active at many levels. I wanted to say a few words about that, too. We need to start with President Andrzej Duda's activities. There is no day when the President of the Republic of Poland does not talk, first, to President Zelenski, with whom he is in contact daily, and to the leaders of Western European countries, with many prime ministers, presidents about this situation. He's mobilizing them to make NATO's response decisive. Not a day goes by when the Prime Minister of the Republic doesn't take such activities. Yesterday he met Charles Michel, the head of the European Council, earlier with the head of the European Commission. I wanted to pay particular attention to the visit of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Berlin on the eve of a special moment, i.e. the meeting of the Bundestag, at which Chancellor Olaf Scholz changed German policy on eastern matters about, you can say, 180 degrees. This would not have been the change if it had not been for the active activities of Poland at many levels and in many dimensions, if not for this important visit to Berlin by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The Germans changed their doctrine. They didn't want to send guns to Ukraine before, now they've decided to do it, they've already done it. Germany did not fully understand the importance of Russia's energy security blackmail at the moment. Today, they make important decisions on this matter. Germany did not want to impose sanctions excluding banks from the SWIFT system. They've imposed that sanction. It's not enough for now, because it does. Just some of the banks. We strongly demand that all Russian banks be sanctioned. The Prime Minister was talking about it. Of course, we also operate through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister shall use both the OSCE and bilateral meetings. Today there is a Polish-Romanian consultation devoted exclusively to this matter. The Prime Minister of Romania with a group of ministers is in Warsaw. Consultations are devoted exclusively to this matter. I didn't mention the Bucharest Nine. In Warsaw last Friday there were representatives of the Bucharest Nine. They're here at President Duda's invitation. Then the NATO summit took place. There's so much activity that you can't even name it all. If I have more than 20 seconds, Your Marshal, I'll place them in three essential areas. First of all, we force very hard sanctions. It worked (the bell) to a large extent. Our main goal is to focus on foreign partners from the European Union, but also for example. Switzerland to impose very strong sanctions. This is the political dimension of support. Let me be clear: there wouldn't be such strong sanctions if it weren't for the activity of the Polish President, Prime Minister and Polish diplomacy. Secondly, support for Ukraine. Poland is a logistical hub in terms of humanitarian support, but also support in the supply of defence weapons that we are sending to help Ukraine. It is extremely important that Ukraine can count on our support to this extent. The third element is the care of those fleeing from the conflict area, on the Ukrainians, but also on Poles and on representatives of other nationalities. Poland reviews those who come to Poland, but Poland is open to fleeing war regardless of nationality, race, color of skin, all other features to carry help. We're carrying that help. I'm sorry, but the context is very broad when it comes to what we're doing. I tried telegraph shorthand to present it. Marshal, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u55	Thank you very much. [[And yet, Minister, we will be asking questions.]] You will still have time after your supplementary question, which Mr Lorek will ask, by sharing time, I hope, with Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a supplementary question for action in the European Union. What action did Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki take? What is the situation with the European Union's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u57	Thank you. Mr. Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Russia has unprecedentedly attacked Ukraine, starting the largest armed conflict in Europe since the Second War. What we called military aggression yesterday today is just barbarism and genocide. Please indicate the most important sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia. How does the resort assess their effectiveness? What is the issue of the European Union's independence from Russian gas and coal today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u59	Please, Minister Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, In the European Union, we have taken steps to provide Ukraine with a real European perspective. It was the Polish initiative that several countries supported Ukraine as a country, to become a candidate country for the European Union very quickly. Let me also tell you that we are not limited to a group of these countries. We are conducting a wide lobbying right now so that this group will expand to convince our partners that today a clear signal should also be sent to the Russian Federation. The point is that Ukraine has an open door for the European Union. Since December we have been the most active participant in the work on the so-called. sanctioning options. Thank you for that question. On 24 February, on the day of aggression, a package of significant sanctions against Russia was adopted in response to this aggression. These are individual sanctions aimed at oligarchs financing criminal actions, politicians making illegal decisions, military military operations and all those who actively contribute to the destruction of peace. However, the most important element is the broad sectoral sanctions designed to hit the aggressors as hard as possible and hit the foundations of the Russian economy. The sanction package includes, among others: restrictions on access to international capital markets that affect around 70% Russian banks. We demand that they cover all Russian banks. These are restrictions on access to money in many sectors, restrictions on exports of dual-use goods using state-of-the-art technologies, restrictions on the energy sector and financial flows from Russia. I will point out that sanctions have also been taken into account in the participation of Belarus in the aggression. Also due to Polish activity sanctions on Russia were adopted by the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. This is a coordinated sanction package with us. Let me just add that this package of sanctions, which is, I would say, another historic turn in this country's current policy, has been adopted by Switzerland. This is certainly severe for the regime of the Russian Federation. We consider these steps to be important and effective, because they affect the Russian economy. We see this from the ratings of Sbierbank, after the queues before the ATMs in Russia, we see the collapse of the Russian economy. That was the purpose of these sanctions. But at the same time, we consider them insufficient. They should cover all Russian banks, Nord Stream 1 (The Bell), concern the cessation of gas transmission through this pipeline, and include imports of coal from Russia and a number of other areas. At the moment, as a Polish diplomacy, we are seeking this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to question 10 prepared by Marek Polak, Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Paul from Law and Justice on savings for Polish families due to reduced rates of tax on goods and services for food and fuel products. Question addressed to the Minister of Finance. The question is asked by Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u62	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the changes introduced by the government in the anti-inflationary shield 2.0 in the field of value added tax on goods and services on 1 February, the reduction of VAT to zero for basic food and beverages entered into force. From 1 January, VAT on fuel was also reduced from 23% to 8% and from 1 February to 8%. All the way up to zero. According to the estimates of analysts, lower food prices were observed in the shops, while the average price of a litre of petrol and diesel at stations was slow, but initially developed at the level of approx. PLN 5.40. But today, as we know, after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, prices speeded up rapidly. The aim of these changes, as we know, is to support Poles' domestic budgets and mitigate the effects of inflation. I would like to ask: What order of savings will the introduction of reduced VAT rates bring to Polish families, and what impact does this unprecedented reduction in taxes have on reducing the impact of inflation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u63	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Patkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u64	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards savings in Polish households' budgets due to the introduction of anti-inflationary shields, I would like to remind you that we had two versions of these discs, although the products covered were largely similar. Let me remind you that so-called. the first shield mainly concerned reductions in excise duties on fuels and energy carriers, while for the second shield, we mainly reduced VAT on food from 5% per 0% rate . As far as fuel is concerned, and that was new to the first shield, from 23% to 8%. We have continued either temporary, or actually temporary, or specific and fixed reductions on energy carriers, such as natural gas - it is especially in recent days, but for several weeks, a very sensitive product - up to 0% to 31 July, while electricity and thermal energy from the so-called. heating network up to a rate of 5% Also until July 31st. As far as the savings in these rates are concerned, it does not, of course, change, although it does not block us in any way the prices of these carriers, because it is closely dependent not only on tax issues, but also on the price of raw materials in the world markets and on the strength of the Polish currency, which, as a result of recent events, war in Ukraine, is also subject to strong fluctuations, while tax savings alone remain unchanged. They can be estimated at a total of PLN 13 800 million, of which the reduction in food prices alone is PLN 2900 million, the reduction in fuel prices, for the time being I refer only to the reduction in VAT rates, i.e. PLN 3110 million. As regards the reduction of fertilisers, it is 520 million PLN, natural gas 2323 million PLN, electricity 2700 million PLN and heat energy 837 million PLN. For the sake of terminology, I will also remind you that these additional measures left in the household budgets also translate into a reduction in excise prices, which already amounts to a total of PLN 1167 million for all products. Therefore, we expect that together all these reductions in VAT and excise duties until 31 July, since the implementation of the first anti-inflationary shield, which took place last December, this will be the amount of PLN 13 800 million. Thank you. [[Why do you keep saying what's already been done?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marek Polak, supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Due to the new tax rates, prices at fuel stations initially decreased significantly, but there was a significant difference between the minimum and maximum price levels. Some vendors offered diesel and petrol 95 at the price of approx. PLN 5.20 and others sold the same fuel at a price higher by approx. 30 to 40 gr for 1 l. I wanted to ask you what caused such differences in fuel prices and whether all sellers responded in the expected way to the reduced, I would remind you, from 23% to 0% VAT. Tell me, as far as we know. whether the prices currently offered at the fuel stations following the Russian invasion of Ukraine have an economic and substantive justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u67	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u68	As regards the rates at petrol stations immediately after the implementation of both the first and the second anti-inflationary shield, the decrease was actually noticeable throughout the retail market. On the other hand, prices have always varied according to different market factors in terms of petrol stations. It is also so that if we look at the voivodship in terms of geographical terms, then often in each voivodship the petrol prices vary by several or sometimes even a dozen cents. It's a constant phenomenon. However, if there were any doubts As regards the use of VAT reductions to rebuild the margin by traders selling petrol, in this situation the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection can always operate, which informed not only petrol sellers, but also all retailers who had reduced VAT rates, about the fact that they should not use it to build up the margin. On the other hand, let us remember that the margin itself for petrol sellers is also quite liquid. It is often very low in the situation of a strong increase in the dollar's rate against the golden and dynamic increase in oil prices and is being rebuilt at the time of stabilisation of these factors. This margin is not fictitious at one level, it is always changing and always succumbing. On the other hand, if such undesirable situations were to occur, the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection always enters. I will not mention here - at least one sentence of course it is appropriate to say - that the two biggest retailers in Poland, namely Orlen and Lotos, are companies with the participation of the State Treasury. Here it was absolutely done mathematically. Prices have been reduced in so far as both VAT and excise duties have fallen. I think that after these signals that flowed from the UOKiK, we don't see a disturbance in the fuel market, although there are isolated situations. On the other hand, I think that the management boards of the relevant companies are taking immediate action and to those entrepreneurs who are trying to take advantage of the situation in accordance with the principles of corporate law are facing consequences. On the other hand, the market is, in principle, stable. UOKiK, at least to my knowledge, didn't comment on it. However, let us remember that we are in a difficult situation when it comes to the oil rate and the dollar rate against the gold. This price may be dynamic, but this will also result in appropriate government responses in terms of extending, possibly extending or changing the already introduced anti-inflationary shields. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. We're still waiting for Minister Swede to move on to another question. He's on his way. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 16 hours 11 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda. Question 11, prepared by Urszula Rusecka, Barbara Bartus, Bożena Borys-Szopa, Teresa Wargocka, Anita Czerwińska and Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, is on the possibility of a bridge pension by a worker working under special conditions or with a special character which, with age, significantly reduces the possibility of working due to decreasing psychophysical performance. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Member, it's been so long...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u70	I'm sorry, it's my debut here, so... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Senior policy. Retirists and pensioners are a social group that is under special care and protection for the rule of law and justice. This is demonstrated by the measures taken to improve the pension system. Let me remind you: it's a return to the previous retirement age, the restoration of this retirement age, it's an unprecedented valorization of pensions and pensions, it's a 13th pension, it's a 14th pension, but it's also a regulation such as, for example, a 1953 retirement or a mother's pension. Another group that needs to be regulated are so-called. pensioners who take bridge pensions. These are people who worked under special conditions. At this point in time, the legal provisions state that if a person wants to take a bridge pension, he must terminate his employment relationship. Sometimes there are situations where the Social Security Office, by verifying working time under special conditions, difficult conditions, does not take into account all the documents collected and the future pensioner is left without means of life. Does the government see this problem and how it wants to solve it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u71	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. By the time I answer very carefully the issues that we propose in the amendment, perhaps a few words about bridge pensions themselves. Let me remind you that this is the solution introduced in 2008. It was born. with many social protests, because then there were people who unfortunately lost on this solution. At that time, over 1 million people were entitled to pensions due to special conditions. After this amendment - right here I will also provide you with information - this number of people has decreased significantly, to over 300,000. I will remind you that this amendment has made significant changes to who can acquire this right to bridge pensions. The first group is persons who were born after 31 December 1948, have a working period of at least 15 years, have reached retirement age for women 55 years old and, for men 60 years old, the condition is that there must be a contribution period of at least 20 years for women and 25 years for men before 1 January 1999, i.e. before the pension reform was introduced, those persons were working under special conditions. There is also an additional provision that has been introduced: after 31 December 2008 they have worked under specific or specific conditions. And this point, which you asked about, is that there has been an additional termination of the employment relationship with them. So these conditions had to be met in order to benefit from bridge pensions. As regards the question of how This is the case with those who benefit from this benefit, with regard to the number of pension decisions issued in 2015-2020 - these are current data - this is from 13 000. Up to 23,000, which means this progression is a little higher. Earlier, as I have also introduced you here, there has been a little more this year. The number of negative decisions has evolved from 5 000. to 9,5,000. Therefore, this attempt to regulate and amend this law so that there is no such situation that the person has terminated the contract of employment, and later it turns out that he does not fulfil any condition and there is no longer the possibility of admission to work. Although there were guidelines of the President of the Social Insurance Institution on how to regulate these issues differently, this was the case. Therefore, it is worth recalling that a special Fund for Retirement was created - 1.5% the contribution - which employers make up. As far as the resources we spend on this are concerned, they are significant. In 2021, more than PLN 1.5 billion was spent on bridge pensions, and in general these funds come from the state budget. Last year, the grant for the Pomost Pension Fund was at the level of PLN 1200 million. This is over 77%. From such information I can also say that the lowest bridge pension was PLN 1250.88, which is as much as the lowest pension in the country and the highest is PLN 8094.62 zł. So much for general information. Now I'm going to answer the question. We have prepared a bill amending the law on bridge pensions, among others. in relation to the termination of the employment relationship. This project was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 February. Next week we will have the first reading of this project, and that is the main solution that I was talking about, so that there is no need to terminate the employment contract before granting the decision to grant a bridge pension. So it will be possible to apply for a bridge pension, if all the formalities, all the data I mentioned earlier, will be checked, then the ZUS will make such a decision and then the employment contract will be terminated and the case will be clearly settled. What is also important, what needs to be emphasised (the bell) is that there has been a compromise on this issue. The resolution of the Social Dialogue Council, because both the employers' side, the government side and the union side have signed the resolution, means full consensus on this amendment. Of course, there are others, but I referred directly to this question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u73	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Teresa Wargock will ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u74	Minister! Thank you for the very comprehensive information in the area of bridge pensions. We also know that it was not only the termination of the employment relationship that was an important problem in the pension granting process, which created a situation of legal uncertainty. I wanted to ask the Minister about the powers of the State Labour Inspection in this respect, because, as we know, the case law of the administrative courts has undermined the current legal situation regarding the powers of the State Labour Inspection to determine harmful conditions, work of a particular nature. So I would very much ask - what is the scale of this phenomenon and what solutions the Ministry proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u75	Thank you, Member. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! This case is settled, too. In the first version, we proposed mandatory checking by the State Labour Inspection of all such circumstances, but during work and after inter-ministerial consultations there was a change. This will be at the request of the person concerned because these cases are not so many. In order not to involve all the forces of the State Labour Inspection, this will be resolved in such a way that the case will be investigated at the request of the person concerned. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] In this respect, the Central Institute for Labour Protection, the CIOP, is an institute that identifies professional groups exposed to harmful factors, and this issue is therefore being resolved. Of course, there are a lot of these cases. There are also legal proceedings concerning the calculation of these periods. More cases come from the earlier period, because I will remind you, as I said at the beginning, that there was a change in 2008 and that people who have worked in harmful conditions since 1998 from the pension reform to 2008 are excluded 10 years old. There was a request to the Constitutional Court made in previous years, but the Constitutional Tribunal considered that this solution was constitutional. Hence people who have 10 years, e.g. Worked under harmful conditions, this period is not classified when they do not meet the condition of subsequent years in accordance with the Act adopted in 2008. That's why they go to court. Unfortunately, the vast majority of cases are lost by those who apply for it. There is one more question to be resolved, because bridge pensions are becoming extinct. We assumed, i.e. people who prepared the project in 2008 assumed that by 2032 the harmful conditions in our country would no longer exist. Unfortunately, this is not the case, which is why, for the next few years, we need to think about how to solve these issues in the future, whether this type of bridge pension is to be terminated, or whether we need to leave it for a group of professions so that this solution can be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u77	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the economic and social consequences of the introduction of a new tax regime will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm, which was presented by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Janusz Cichoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new tax order was supposed to be American dream. The biggest, comprehensive reconstruction of the tax system. It was to be fair, simple and transparent, and Poland was to become a country of universal happiness. If we turn off this propaganda and look at the details, we have, first of all, the elimination of the amount of free money. The liquidation, because the amount free today is 0. But we have new tax thresholds. First tax threshold - 30,000. zł, income at this threshold taxed at a rate of 9%. Second tax threshold - 120 thousand. zł. Revenue between 30 and 120 thousand. they are taxed at a rate of 26% , between 120,000. a 1 million - 41% , and more than 1 million - 45%. There is also a relief for the middle class in this system, but in the case of mid-class relief you forgot about pensioners, pensioners, also about contractors, e.g. about academic teachers. Their relief has not yet been included. It's fair when people with the same income pay the same taxes. This system isn't fair yet. [[Applause]] It is also fair when we pay taxes that are equally vulnerable on the entire scale of income. That's what I call it. vertical tax justice. But we have a tax cliff of 12 800 PLN, after which we have a higher tax burden of several thousand PLN. That's not a fair solution. It's not enough, you're leading to the fact that in Poland it doesn't pay to work. We've got a tax on that. You didn't notice by changing the system that you didn't exclude deduction from the tax of health contributions from the tax base from income. Then we still have a health contribution income tax. It's actually an increase in the effective tax rate. Nobody knows how much tax he's gonna pay. That's the result of this transparency you're planning. Plus, you've deprived the local government of their income. Today they must limit the scope and quality of services, raise prices, have no means to accomplish their tasks, and we have a period in which we all look at them, because we have immigrants who need to be helped. [[Applause]] It is for local governments that this task falls, similarly with NGOs, NGOs. They also lose as part of the New Deal. You deprive them of their income, and they provide support to those in need most effectively today. You've limited their capabilities without making up for it in any way. The new Tax Order is an unprecedented hit on Polish entrepreneurs. These are new taxes, new tax burdens, rising tax burdens, increasing administrative burdens. We have a new health tax, a minimum tax, reorganisation measures are taxed on a new basis. In these difficult times, exchanges of shares, acquisitions, divisions of companies are additionally taxed, on changed terms. A hidden dividend comes in, you change the rules of the game when it comes to renting real estate. These are just examples of traps, mines sewn up in New Deal. No one has identified them, and they increase the risk of managing in Poland today, they sow uncertainty. This is the enemy of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. In these difficult times These are even unacceptable actions. [[Applause]] The real horror is experienced by Polish accountants, tax advisors. There's an advance that needs to be calculated twice. You have to keep double accounts. A contribution in a similar formula. There's different rules, too. There's different tax bases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've turned it off, you've created the possibility of monthly remanets, but they're still extra loads. You can keep this. You can put it back in time, sit down at the table and sort it out. You brewed beer, but no one said that you must drink sour beer that Poles must drink it. Leave, in fact, a new free amount and a tax threshold of 120 000. zł, suspend all solutions related to business taxation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u79	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Arthur Sobonia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u80	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think it's worth a little tidying up. Let us agree that there is no point in it today that I will defend those solutions which I do not intend to defend, because I would like us to change some of these solutions together, and that the state, instead of returning to the past, will propose solutions. Then this discussion, in my opinion, will be of greater benefit. I would like her to have the benefit of all of us, also for me, because the state is probably ready to offer good solutions, as I hope. Such an idea to get back to 2021 is an idea not to defend itself. First of all, for legal reasons. As you know perfectly well, we can refer only to this tax system, which is, that is, the one that has been in force since 1 January 2022. Action in the case of a taxpayer who under this system has obtained certain tax advantages, tax opportunities, various types of reliefs, during the tax year can only be an act in favour of that taxpayer. There's no way today we're going to refer to another year than the year we have. [[In favor.]] It's for the best. That's the first thing. I'd like us to sort this out, 'cause that's the kind of voice we've heard over and over again. The Member also mentioned that he should stop it. Nobody's gonna stop that. The tax system can, of course, be changed during the tax year in favour of the taxpayer. That's settled. Secondly, do not defend the system from last year, because the tax system in Poland unfortunately was and is - the same was in 2021 - and complicated, and unfair. On the one hand, the room, the more liberal one, was probably often heard voices that it was an overly complicated system, on the other hand, the more social one, that was not very fair. He was exactly like that in 2021. He was neither righteous nor uncomplicated. [[Applause]] This complexity consists of several elements. Firstly, the variety of revenues and the associated burdens in the form of various costs of obtaining revenues, situations of paying or not paying contributions, various types of reliefs, different family situations, different types of contract coincidences, and finally those opportunities that taxpayers use, e.g. concerning the reduction of thermomodernization, rehabilitation or completely other reliefs which, of course, affect the amount of income tax. On the other hand, we have a link to this system, and this is the logic that the Member was talking about with the contribution system. We've broken it off a little bit, but I agree with all the doubts that are connected with it. If the Member were honest, he would say: okay, tax. Exactly the same was true in 2021, even when it was possible to deduct the tax contribution, because it existed in the ratio: 7,75 . So this 1.25, if you apply your nomenclature, was a tax tax, too. [[Applause]] [[But not nine.]] The system was unfair, too. If we look at such simple data, that is, the situation of the difference between the tax wedge between the person who makes 215% average salary, which is quite a lot, for our domestic conditions, and the person who makes 50% the average wage, and this is the area around the minimum wage in Poland, is for Poland this difference in tax burden between such persons was only five percentage points. The OECD - these are countries that we want to compare with - this difference is on average 14%. And that's also the dimension of what we've collided with, talking about contributions and financial burdens, e.g. about the health contribution for entrepreneurs. And this is something that Polish Load responded to with some solutions, which certainly must be maintained in this system: the amount of free, higher than many times before, for 12 years the unchanged threshold of the second tax rate, various types of relief, PIT-0 for seniors, family relief, relief for entrepreneurs. All of this today is something that we have given taxpayers and that we should maintain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's talk about what needs to be changed. I deliberately did not mention the solutions that I think we should examine very deeply, such as the mid-class relief, so that we could talk seriously about proposals. I'll be happy to hear it. And one more sentence, Marshal. The proof that I want to talk, and I want to listen, is that I have proposed a solution that entrepreneurs are waiting for. It would really be good for it to be adopted in March, it is about these rheanent differences. However, this amendment was rejected by the Senate majority. [[Voice from the room: But to k.s.h. Did you put it in the Commercial Companies Code?]] Now, out of despair, Commissioner, we have put this into another law and I hope it will be adopted. But what you offered in the Senate... [[Voice from the room: Maybe you should have...]] I'm not saying this to argue with you, really. About what you guys offered in the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. The Minister is finishing his statement. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I said it was a wise solution to the Senate majority, and I proposed that this solution be accepted. And it was accepted. [[But you made a mistake.]] In my opinion, we should work on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Anyone else want to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the speech of the Member speaking on behalf of those requesting today's debate, we have heard the words: it is fair, as taxes, that the tax burden is proportionate to the amount of income. We are at a particular time, Minister, because we are really introducing the biggest, most thorough tax reform since the early 1990s, and we are also introducing solutions that will have an important impact on our lives, but today we will probably talk primarily about money and taxes. Therefore, I will allow myself to focus on these burdens. Minister! The Polish Government is kind of imposing on something that no one was able to predict. Here I am thinking directly about the pandemic of COVID-19, which for more than two years has destroyed not only Poland, not only the wallets of Polish taxpayers. It must also be made clear that health care not only in Poland, but also everywhere in the world costs much, much more. It is pleased that since the beginning of the period when Law and Justice rule, this value for health protection, over PLN 70 billion, has increased virtually twice, and this should be remembered. And you should be happy about the fact that we were able to prepare, more or less foresight, but nevertheless, for what is related to COVID-19. But I want to focus on the health contribution. We know that this contribution is divided into two groups - employers and employers pay it in different ways. We also know that today's employers pay it in the amount of 382 PLN de facto as a fixed value. Whether or not we're making $1,000. zł, 10,000. or 100,000, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of an employer, it does not matter at all. I wanted to ask what it looks like (the bell) with regard to employees and whether a system in which an employee can earn several, several times less, and pays a larger contribution, is just fair. I'm referring to this justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker said that Polish Load imposed on two years of pandemic, but you all knew that there was a pandemic, so you just had to move the introduction of this Polish Deal. [[Applause]] It's obvious. But I have another problem. Family companies are failing. I recently mentioned the bakery between the Germans, and today I will give more examples. Zuzi Górska's creative studio from Gorzów is another case in which the bills exceeded the possibilities of a small establishment. According to the owner on one of the Internet portals: a year ago for such a period at that time the gas bill for the building in which the workshop is located was about 6 thousand. zł. Today's bill came - yes, you can see well, this is a quote - for almost 27,000. zł. Yes, the building is large, unheated, wooden, old or made like old windows - after all, it is a beautiful building of the old school and it would be a shame to put styrofoam on it and replace the windows with plastic ones. But last year this building looked exactly the same, and the bill was different - you write Zuzanna Górska. The Zielona Góra Shop Embryk is also shutting down. Marta Turbak-Grabska - the owner says: the shop closes after 40 years. The reason is the increase in fees: ZUS, gas, rent. It forced me and my mom to close it. A lot of people have tears in their eyes so far because they've been buying goods here since they were kids. We're incredibly sorry, too. Electricity and heating bills increased by around 300% at the beginning of the year and even more than last year. In Lubuskie Voivodeship in February, as a result of the Polish Order, several dozen small companies announced their liquidation or transition to the grey zone. What do you say, Prime Minister, Minister? The fall of a family business is a loss of income for the whole family. This isn't the family plus program you're talking about, is it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u85	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Polish Load was supposed to be a hope for rapid development, for fairer taxes, for the introduction of the progressiveness of these taxes, the hope which the representatives of the governing party, led by the Prime Minister and the President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, gave to the public through the media. After 1 January, after 10 January, after 31 January, this situation was no longer as pink as it was previously presented in the media. First of all, pensioners who went to the parliamentary office, who had a second benefit in addition to pension benefits, or a family pension, showed documents showing that they had less than 250 PLN, 280 PLN, 115 PLN. They asked where are these solutions that were announced, where they are visible in these specific documents. Secondly, it is a very unfair tax system for mothers or single parents who raise children. This solution, if all public aid to the family is taken into account, is deeply unfair. I hope that the proposals that the government will put forward in the first place will translate into a solution to this situation, and I would like to ask you this: When will the government make a proposal for unequal treatment of single parents in the tax system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u87	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. There isn't. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After a few months, you can see that the effect is exactly what I said it would be, so you raised the tax, the basic rate of PIT, you can say, from 17% to 26%. Every dollar, Minister, over 30,000. PLN is additionally taxed 9%. Whatever to count-- well, maybe otherwise. this is calculated in the case of linear tax - the effect is exactly the same. When 9% of the costs are an additional charge and there is an additional tax on it, and it actually works like a basic tax rate, it really hurts. Please do not compare this to the situation when the tax was paid by Poles from 1,25%, because these are really completely different situations that otherwise translate into our wallets. Today, in the case of a earner, e.g. 6,000. The health contribution increased by almost 100%. And that's the effect, Minister, because they paid 300 zlotys, and today they pay 600 zlotys. I was just counting it, looking at my husband's calculations. Today we have such a situation that we enter the world of war in the East with high inflation, artificially and temporarily undertaxed taxes, weak gold and unstable economy. This is the result of your fiscal policy and monetary central bank policy. This does not give us immunity, and Poles and Poles - a sense of economic security. Stop really focusing on propaganda. Start managing the gold and our (Bingle) fiscal policy properly. This, responsibility, is expected of you Polish and Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u90	We also really expect responsibility from the opposition, not propaganda, which is expressed by the speeches that have taken place here today. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u91	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u92	That's how you react when you have no arguments. That's not true - this is a discussion with you. [[But it's true.]] Minister! In the case of joint settlements between spouses, is the amount free added up? And does it matter that one spouse is working and the other is retiring? Second line. Are pensioners, mostly farmers, with KRUS, who received less retirement in January on the tax due - of course, it is less than 2.5 000 pensions. zł - and for this reason, how did I know that the KRUS IT system was not yet prepared to deduct this tax, in February they receive a higher pension, without tax? And do they also receive a tax refund for January? Why do I say we expect responsibility from the opposition? Because today, when we are talking about such a major reform, which despite this difficult situation the government has undertaken to save the economic situation of Polish families, when a farmer is waiting to have 60 zlotys more pension - because the state gave 3-4 zlotys, this is what you did for your governments, 3-4 zlotys... [[Voice from the room: Because there was no inflation. That's what you need to know.]] ...when we are dealing with such a difficult international and internal situation, and the government is undertaking such a serious reform when we are talking about the Polish Lad, the state of everything, all responsibility for the situation that is, you are throwing on the government, among others. For bankruptcy of companies. [[Voice from the hall: Who should we drop on?]] And where were you then? Where were you when the senseless climate policy was being implemented? [[You're gonna have to stop with that novelty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u93	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u94	Where were you then? Where were you (the bell) when you had to protest against becoming addicted to Russian gas? Where were you then? Where were your MEPs? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where were you?]] [[Voice from the hall: Russian coal is imported.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u95	Thank you. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It would be good if there was a debate, not getting some old situation that didn't happen. [[Not true.]] I think it sounded very optimistic to see the Minister speak, who said that he would not defend solutions which - I will say - have compromised themselves in this New Deal. [[Applause]] This is very optimistic for me and that is where we should start our discussion. I therefore urge you to leave the tax-free amount that has been proposed and also to leave the higher second tax threshold. Other issues need to be changed. Let's discuss this. Let's not move, ladies and gentlemen... [[Applause]] Really, Mrs. Butterwska, I'm very sorry to hear what you're saying. In this discussion, I would like to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the situation of small, family, micro-, whose activities are based on high energy consumption. If we do not help them with what happened to them when it comes to gas prices, most of them will be completely destroyed or bankrupt by the end of the year. What assistance is envisaged in this regard for these companies? Let's not pretend that a six-fold increase in gas prices for the baker will allow this baker to function. [[Applause]] And this isn't just about the tax system. Most of these bakers will close their business, and Poles will be forced to eat bread made from frozen semi-finished products to produce this bread which is in the markets. [[Black script.]] Unfortunately, that's the situation. I know a lot of examples I don't want to mention here because of time, that these companies just won't be. What's next, Minister? [[Applause]] [[They're writing black scripts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mrs. Member! It's been over six years since you've been in charge, and I think it's enough for you to go back to history because you had a lot to do. And as the Minister admitted, it was out loud in this Chamber that the system was unfair in 2021, too. So the one you brought in is also unjust. [[Applause]] Yes, Minister? He's unfair. Unfortunately, it is. [[Voice from the hall: The other was unjust.]] He was unjust, but he is unjust too, sir. [[Yours was unfair, too.]] Unfortunately, it happened that... As the opposition, we all appealed, we talked about reviewing these solutions to consider whether they would actually bring relief to all those to whom they were to bring it. Turns out it wasn't. Teachers, nurses, pensioners, miners, uniforms got lower wages. Today we continue this way, we are going through these bad solutions and we do not want to change them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that we are acting against you. We want to look together for solutions, solutions that will bring relief to everyone. [[Voice from the room: Together with whom?]] Together with you. Unfortunately, you are not accepting any amendments. [[Applause]] The Minister himself said that some of the amendments were good. [[He said they were accepted.]] No, no. He said some of it was rejected, but we're gonna take some. [[Voice from the hall: My voice was rejected.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! It is not possible to conduct politics in such a way that - which is a normal thing in committees - you lay down all the amendments of the opposition, you accept only your own, and when you accept one of the many amendments that is ripped out of the whole, then you say: yes, we thought so too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you can't do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As we have a war on our eastern border, responsibility is expected of all of us. Therefore, as a representative PSL I have a request, advice for the new Deputy Minister, who is to correct the mess associated with the Polish Ład, to return, among others. to a letter, like all of us parliamentarians, we got from the Enterprise Council. He was addressed to us on 14 September 2021 and this letter presents a dozen threats to doing business in Poland - from running modern business services through crafts, to medical, cosmetic, taxi, all kinds. All of them have come true, Minister. I think that for the sake of all of us, you should return to this letter, which you probably also received, and invite representatives of organizations such as: the Union of Polish Crafts, the Employers of Poland, the Association of Business Services Leaders, the Federation of Polish Entrepreneurs, the Polish Business Council, the Union of Polish Banks, and many, many others, because in September that year they indicated all the inconsistencies, inconsistencies and unstable regulations that are a barrier to doing business in Poland. I think it will serve us most of all, especially Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u101	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Communication concerning the so-called Polish Load took place with a very large use of social media. The problem is that the information that was transmitted from government to Poles and Poles was not always and not entirely true. A flagship example is the confusion surrounding the mid-class relief. On the Internet there were organized so-called. Webinars on the website of the Ministry of Finance. There was also a lot of false information. An example is the question of the deadline for submitting PIT-2 and the consequences of not submitting this PIT-2. You've published textbooks, Q&A. The common feature of these documents was that they were not signed by any official, as if no one wanted to take responsibility for this information. Just before the war broke out, there was a series of interviews by the Minister of Finance, the former Minister of Finance. One of the most frightening of these interviews is that no one had time to examine the effects of this reform. You were former Minister Tadeusz Kościński with disarming sincerity summarized his work at the Ministry of Finance: they saw the eyeballs that they took. According to rule 80 to 20, which is according to the Pareto rule, everything is going well. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that. The issue of taxes, the question of how many Poles will pay taxes next year, is often a question of being or not being Polish families. It is worth noting that, in any way, you will want to improve these new rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u104	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the speech of the Minister, who is open, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate, to the substantive debate, in order to hold it both with us and with you, with Members of the opposition. And I have come with that intention, especially during this difficult time, when state security is the most important thing for us when we have a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any shortcomings regarding the Polish Order, please present them substantively, not with screaming, maliciously. I would just like to present to you the positive aspects I have observed. Ladies and gentlemen, how much money from the Polish Government, externally, is transferred to the local government. Thanks to this support we build a number of local, district roads, in small towns, municipalities and cities. Road infrastructure, sport infrastructure is being developed. It is simply that local government officials are outrunning the increasingly interesting projects they can direct in order to receive support from the Polish Government. Retired people also thank me for this Polish Load. For my part, I have presented such positive aspects. I have a question for the Minister: will employment in the economic sector (the bell), the state and especially the number of legal contracts increase in relation to the Polish Ład? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The environment affecting economic activity in Poland has changed dramatically since the new year - a new year, which frightened entrepreneurs with burdens and unknowns, which were included in the new tax system. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is still uncertainty and global risk resulting from Russia's attack on Ukraine. And entrepreneurs, despite these many unknowns, despite these many burdens, immediately organized themselves to help Ukrainians fleeing Russian aggression, but also their employees, Ukrainians who already work with them, and their families. [[Applause]] From the information provided by many employers' and entrepreneurs' organisations, we know, e.g. The Confederation of Leviathan says that they organize access to legal information, psychological assistance, financial assistance, additional leave to bring families. The Federation of Polish Entrepreneurs has already offered over 250,000. additional jobs. They also provide psychological assistance, childcare facilities. But in order to be able to function well and continue this assistance, because it should be sustainable and structured, there is a need for legislative solutions, new rules are needed. This order needs to be sorted out, which should be charged too much, but additional rules are also needed, for example. They'd allow it... Minister, you wanted a proposal, so listen. Minister, you wanted a proposal. Listen. [[Applause]] ...so they can count in the cost of obtaining PIT revenue, CIT spending on providing child care for refugees. In addition, it is also important to bear in mind that it is about spending on the creation of childcare facilities for refugees, the financing of expenditure on the cost of attending children to care places, and the running of these places of care. It is also necessary - they conclude - to include in the cost of obtaining income expenditure on the accommodation of refugees in order to exempt the funding for people (the bell) working accommodation from income tax on individuals and social security contributions. They're waiting for these solutions. We offer them, we are prepared, because it has to be done. And one last sentence, Marshal. The Minister said that one faulty situation from the Polish Government concerning inventory has been partially repaired. But why did you do it politically and not rationally again - you threw it into the amendments to the Commercial Companies Code, which are fatal, which simply cannot be accepted? [[Applause]] We therefore appeal. We're ready to work, we have solutions, we want to work together. But let's make it a normal, good legislative procedure - urgent but good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On February 24, the world turned upside down. Taking this opportunity, I would like to appeal to the Minister because entrepreneurs come to me, to my office in Podlaskie Voivodeship. After this date - it is entrepreneurs, Podlaskie entrepreneurs, and not only entrepreneurs, the logistics industry - from trucks registered in Poland, Ukrainian drivers started to get off. Polish entrepreneurs were left without drivers. We understand this situation and the entrepreneurs are solidarity with them, of course, because they were called to come to Ukraine to defend their homeland. I call for support for transport, trucks that drive all over Europe so that these companies can continue to exist because they are burdened with powerful leases, and without drivers such companies cannot function. So that I ask for the support of these companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 1 January, on Polish entrepreneurs - both small, one-man businesses and larger ones, and in particular, I would say, on those medium-sized ones who work alone, employing in small enterprises, most often shops located outside large city centres, some people to work - new responsibilities fell. New, sometimes minor, but cumbersome, such as the need to inform customers at new prices about the effect of government policy and the cancellation of VAT on food products, up to serious issues related to the accounting of your own additional and the tax clearance of your own employees. In addition, events beyond our eastern border brought a new situation to which Polish entrepreneurs responded very positively. We hear about the company that rented or made available 1000 of its cars to organize free transport of refugees to destinations throughout Poland. This morning I saw one of Warsaw's bakeries, very famous, deliver bread for free, as I was sure, for 60 Ukrainians staying in one of the hotels, also made available by the entrepreneur on charity terms to Ukrainian refugees. Therefore, I appeal to the Minister and appeal to last week's strike at the Sejm, who demanded that, in difficult times, high gas and energy bills, but in particular for gas, be extended to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't the government considering taking this demand seriously - not mine, not our club, but our entrepreneurs? No matter what slogan and banners they stood there, they really expressed the demand, request and concern of Polish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to which the government should respond. My question is this: Is the government willing to take a positive look at these demands that were made a week ago? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland raises the minimum wage threshold for work faster, much faster than most European countries. Let me remind you: On 1 January 2016, it amounted to PLN 1850 - only. Minimum remuneration from 1 January this year. is PLN 3010 - also only. But it's about 60% higher. in relation to the above-mentioned 2016 salary and by more than PLN 200 higher than last year. The remuneration of this amount is approximately 3,800 thousand. persons. The amount is particularly important for women, because almost every fifth Polka receives a minimum salary. I say this as an ex-employer working mostly with women. This has nothing to do with women's coming day. My question, Minister, is very simple. I like the concrete. How are the wages of the person working under the employment contract now developed this year after the tax changes entered into? It is the person who earns PLN 3010 a month gross, i.e. receives a minimum wage for work. Additional question: What are the prospects for minimum wage growth? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr PiS mentioned just now that we have had a difficult situation for two years. It's about the pandemic in our country. This has now come to a really difficult situation beyond our eastern border. Poles are terrified. People come to our parliamentary offices, they harass us on the street - I think that this applies not only to Members of the opposition, but also to all Members - because they fear for their future. They're insecure. In addition, there is a situation related to the Polish Ład. I'm hearing a double voice in this room again. The minister who tells us that he wants to work with us, wants to listen to us, and comes out the Member who starts accusing us again and reminds us of things that often haven't even happened. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: change this bad tax solution project, where no one knows for sure what taxes they're going to pay - neither the employer nor the employees. This order is not understood by tax officials or employees of tax offices, but, surprisingly, even the former finance minister admitted in an interview that the ministry staff did not have time to go into detail. [[Applause]] The project was advertised in the media and on millions of billboards bought as a flagship project, which is well thought out and converted. It was supposed to win most of the citizens. Members of the Civic Coalition - I will tell the Minister - warned that there were many mistakes in the project. The Legislative Office explained to you that there was not enough time to analyse it in depth, but, of course, the legislative roller moved very quickly and the project was adopted. I would also like to remind you that our Members, colleagues, who are sitting in the Chamber, held a hearing in the Sejm. Entrepreneurs, employees of tax offices (the bell), tax administration - I am finishing up, your marshal - who once again showed how illegible the tax law contained in the New Deal is. They said that it had to be suspended, that the rules had to be refined and that, for the time being, only the higher tax-free amount and the second tax threshold had to be raised. Minister, if you declare that you have good will, listen to all these people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u115	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Poland's Loads are concerned, we know that it is to be thoroughly amended. We are all talking about this in the course of the discussion. As for how much it cost to promote the Polish Order, so far I am waiting for an answer. I wanted to ask you a completely different question about a few hundred thousand Poles who are chronically ill have neurological disorders. It's about diseases that most often manifest themselves as seizures. This is epilepsy. I would like to ask - maybe not directly the Ministry, I ask for written information, it is more about the Minister of Health - what actions will be taken in order to educate Poles and Poles about such disorders? What these neurological disorders and seizures look like, e.g. on the street, at work, at home. What is and will be the proposal to extend health prevention for people with epilepsy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the discussion about Polish Lada has gone further, during meetings this problem is very vital. Polish Load raises many concerns, there are many unknowns, many questions. In this context, I would like to point out that one of the basic errors in preparing the Polish Deal was the lack of proper consultation with entrepreneurs, with local governments, with advisers. Now, when repairing - did the Minister say that you are open, want to make some changes, especially those that will benefit people, for local governments - are talks, discussions with these environments being held? The next problem is the changes that are happening and that you want to make. How will the budget be affected? We know what the budgetary situation is, and we know that these expenditures are going to increase, that for well-known reasons they're going to be bigger. Despite all these social benefits, the analyses that are being carried out show that poverty has increased in recent years. It would seem that this should not be the case with such social benefits, but these processes are visible. The experts are showing it. Do you have a picture of this situation? Do you want to take any action that would somehow help those who are in the most difficult situation, the more that we know that inflation is also some kind of additional tax. Although it has some positive influence, it is about budget revenue, but it is a tax for the citizen (the bell) and it is the lowest-paid person's burden. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Russia's attack on Ukraine has changed the reality of the whole world. Today Ukraine is fighting for freedom and independence, and Poles and Poles write a beautiful card in the history of Poland with their solidarity. Together with friends from Ukraine, we are experiencing difficult times. Poles and Poles open hearts, wallets, open their homes for refugees. As a nation, we pass the test of goodness, empathy and generosity. The desire to help is enormous, and we all realize that we have a long distance to go when it comes to helping. I am convinced that entrepreneurs, local governments, Poles and Poles will have the strength to support Ukraine, but only if they feel safe in Poland thanks to good, stable and predictable law. The Polish Load is in such a huge heat of criticism that it should be suspended. The rules in it are so bad that they can't be fixed. And certainly interpretations can't fix this chaos and bubble. Not from now on we appeal: set a tax-free amount, set a higher tax threshold and withdraw the bad reform. Polish Load is filled with risks, traps, gaps and holes, and inflation, which is about to be two figures, expensive, pandemic has not disappeared since the beginning of the war in Ukraine. Poles struggle with them every day. This is not the time for bad Polish Load, this is the time for support for local governments, which are now being absorbed by the organisation of humanitarian aid for refugees. Their revenue has decreased and is at 2018 level. Do you know that? It is time to support non-governmental organisations that have encountered limitations in the form of smaller copies, and they are our pride at this difficult time. It is time to help cooperatives and their residents who are excluded from compensation under the Gas Act. They're paying horrendous bills for the heat today. We're talking about it, but you're not listening. And above all, it is time to return to the way of the rule of law (the bell), because we are all waiting for the blocked funds from the European Union, billions from the National Plan for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] Poland must be a law-abiding, democratic country. It is not enough to wrap yourself in the EU flag, the flag of the European Union, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u122	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! Polish Load has already been criticized so much since its introduction, unfortunately it is only right that it is difficult to really find a social group that would not lose on the Polish Lad. Contrary to what she was already talking about here, in the Chamber, Polish Load does not serve to save the situation of Polish families, as Mrs Masłowska said. And this certainly does not apply to independent families, i.e. families where the most common woman raises a child, whether it's a woman who's been abandoned with a child or a widow or a widow. This social group scandalously loses on the Polish Lad. It contributes to this situation, among others. the fact that independent parents have lost the privilege of having a joint account with the child. It's very difficult to understand why this change is happening. We are talking here not only about the loss of these families when it comes to tax clearance, but also about discrimination against independent families in relation to other families, multi-child families. Of course, many families have the right to support, and no one wants to take it away from them, but it cannot be at the expense of families and parents raising their own children. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you very much to answer the question: What are you going to do (the bell) to correct this situation so that families who raise their children themselves do not lose their lives on the Polish Lad? Will the possibility of joint settlement with the child be restored?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u124	And if so, what proposals do the Minister have? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u125	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk here, for example. Speaking of minimum wage. Mr. Speaker! It's worth telling the truth what it looks like. In 2007, i.e. the end of your governments - the minimum salary is PLN 926. 2015 - the end of the Platform's government - PLN 1850. [[Applause]] Over these eight years, it's almost 100% higher. Fantastic PiS rule: then minimum wage - PLN 1850, now - PLN 3050. It's a 70% increase. Those are the facts. [[Voice from the room: Inflation.]] Inflation. Thank you very much, sir, let's talk about inflation. Years 2014-2015 - inflation was 0% , minimal deflation. As for 2021, inflation, we all know it, is more than 10%. These are concrete, and this is really what needs to be done. The Minister also said that we should listen to good solutions. We're talking about the New Deal, we're talking about the fact that entrepreneurs really feel a lot of concern right now. But I also wanted to ask you again to intervene with regard to housing cooperatives, which are supplied with heat by companies. In my case, in the case of New Tomyśl, it's a district heating company. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we've been fighting for two months to make this amendment, because it's already beginning March, and thousands of people will be covered by the next raises. We as Platform say, appeal, prepare draft laws that we submit to the Sejm, and the state has been doing nothing for 1.5 months (Applause) and in a moment our residents, lonely seniors, who have apartments of 50-60 m I also wanted to ask on behalf of local authorities, because indeed the local government was very affected by the New Deal in terms of the decrease in its own income, but there is (the bell) a minimum income tax, which may also affect municipal companies. There is a great deal of concern, Minister, on this point, so please also make a clear answer to ensure that such municipal companies are protected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u127	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Load introduced a huge disorder and unfortunately made life difficult for entrepreneurs. This is probably due to the fact that during the drafting of this law, you did not consult with entrepreneurs, business associations. We, too, when we learned that the bill would be processed and we didn't have much time to analyse it, we knew perfectly well that this couldn't work. Therefore, at this point I would like to ask, because we hear that the New Deal, the Polish Load, is constantly being corrected, with whom you consult these amendments. Do you also consider employers, entrepreneurs, or do you consider business associations? If so, I ask for a list of such organizations so that we can know whether they are objective and whether they look at your actions objectively too, so that they serve everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u129	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a pity that Mr Rutka left because I wanted to say that he did... [[Voice from the room: Rutnicki.]] Rutnicki, I'm sorry. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] You're here. ...it's worth telling the truth... [[It's worth it.]] ...especially about the Civic Platform governments. [[Please refer to these specifics.]] Let me remind you. Under the Civic Platform, frozen salaries for teachers, frozen wages for the Prison Service, for the police, for nurses, for white towns. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[A voice from the room: No! That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u131	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u132	Now, let's get to the point. The higher amount of free money was the most desirable element of the reform of the tax system. It's almost 80%. Poles supported this reform. Minister! Could you indicate what other beneficial changes are for taxpayers in addition to the higher amount of free income and the increase in the income threshold on a scale that has been implemented in the Polish Lad? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u133	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, as corrected. [[But I don't think there's any correction.]] You called your Member, mentioned his name.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u134	Mrs. Member! You really have to tell the truth, so I'm looking you in the eye... [[I'm watching you, too.]] ...and I would ask you very much not to lie from this pulpit, because in the days... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute. ...the Civic Platform governments have tripled the raises for teachers. You know that. It is worth to be, especially at this point, speaking from this place, decent and just not to lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u135	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition. [[Correct, then.]] Madame, the raises were actually there, so we will end up... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm asking you to calm down. [[There's no correction.]] Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. And be careful, because then these situations arise.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the time, I was in the government and I can confirm: three successive budgets for 2008, 2009 and 2010 assumed increases for teachers. [[Applause]] It was a personal intervention by Prime Minister Donald Tusk. [[I happen to be a teacher, and I didn't feel that change.]] And now to the point, that is to the Polish Deal, which has become the Polish chaos. You have confirmed this, ladies and gentlemen, today Minister Soboń, but above all this chaos was authorized by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. If anyone has any doubts whether in this new system he will receive a higher salary or the same, earning up to 12 800 PLN, and at the end of this year he will notice any difference, then we will allow, we will introduce the principle of the possibility of settlement according to revenue achieved in 2021 - that is, sir, the evaluation of the author, this is the shortest review of the Polish Order. So the comparison of 2021 and 2022. If it turns out that the year 2022 in any way, by one zloty, worsened the tax status of anyone in Poland, any person, then it will be possible to get this return - said the head of government at the conference. Read it, Minister, colleagues from Law and Justice. This means that you have brought chaos, and we say: let's get out of this chaos, because times are dangerous (the bell), behind our eastern border there is war, Poles want to find peace, want to find order. Let's leave a higher tax-free amount and withdraw from the rest as promised by the Minister. Remember the chaos you've introduced with an e-PIT for young people by the age of 26. Who will answer for the chaos that caused the young taxpayers today not to know what tax they will pay? Minister! I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Adam... [[For the rich you want. You protect the rich.]] Please, Mr Cymanski, for peace. [[I'm sorry.]] Please, Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am sorry, but it is also worth recalling the unprecedented fact: we were not the initiator of today's debate. Since the Minister, Members of the Civic Coalition, says that today is not the time for such push-ups, I am simply going to say: the declaration by Minister Arthur Sobonia was indeed clear, he is here to look for solutions in areas where there has been either some turbulence or an interpretational confusion, and that is why this discussion is being discussed. I also hear the voices of many micro-entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs or people dealing with tax systems that changes in the payment of health contributions raise some question of interpretation. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: To what extent should a health contribution be paid by entrepreneurs paying linear tax for January 2022. - at a 90% rate or 4.9% ? To the extent that the conditions for the use of the so-called "freedom" are favourable. Estonian CIT and are the preferences related to investment in innovation beneficial for Polish entrepreneurs? Will and what regulations involving people working in several workplaces - I am also referring to the teachers that have just been mentioned - be the subject of legislation that aims at simpler settlement mechanisms both in terms of health contributions and income tax? How many underprivileged people, pensioners and pensioners will benefit from the tax arrangements introduced? Just to remind one Member: the tax law currently in operation has been adopted and we are not discussing the project, but the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Let's talk about the labour market, about new jobs. The Polish Government is part of a plan of big investments. 600 billion will give 0.5 million jobs. I am asking how this is going to happen if there is no money from the European Union, starting with the reconstruction programme. So what kind of money is this supposed to happen? When are you going to end the conflict with the European Union and the money we need will come? Do you want to finance it out of debt outside the budget? That's the first question. Second question. Small enterprises and micro-enterprises are the yeasts of the economy. The Polish Ład acted in such a way that it was a freezing effect. The statistics on the suspension of business activity and the removal of business activity and the researched concerns about the company's survival are mentioned. 1/5, 1/4 companies are afraid of going bankrupt. Now, we need these yeasts of the economy, because the labour market has just changed, and the economic conditions have changed. See how they're loaded with trucks, parking lots by highways and expressways. Males are dying, women with children are coming, hundreds of thousands from Ukraine are coming. These people need shelter, work, health care, social care, education, daycare and kindergarten. I'd like you to at least give your opinion to this case, this big change. When we have a package for these people, an immigration package for refugees and a package for entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized companies that have to take these people to work, those women who will have to reconcile work with childcare at the same time? As part of the big investments, we will not be able to make them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're scattered all over Poland. Small businesses, micro companies need to feel, they need to get support, they need to have incentives so that these people can work and they can wait for better times to return to their country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The difficult situation which is in our country due to the neighbouring Ukraine is a fact. The difficulties that arise from the pandemic, from this next challenge, are also a fact. I am very pleased that the opposition has so valuable initiatives to help those of our countrymen who are helping. I think that we are also among these Poles, and if we are not, we should join as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is a personal request that you have an influence on your MEPs from the European People's Party to unblock the funds, because these measures, ladies and gentlemen, are not the means for Members of the Law and Justice, they are the resources for our country, for our citizens, also for those entrepreneurs and those who provide assistance. [[All you have to do is follow the path of the law.]] [[Voice from the court: The rule of law. The rule of law.]] So I am very happy that you want to run these measures, but make sure that they are unlocked. [[Dictatorship starts with a lack of rule of law.]] And enough propaganda. Finally take care of the specifics. Now, here's the question. I'm an educated science mind. Answer me, if that's how you analyze it mathematically. How is it possible that Mr Budek, with pastries, shows that if they come to power, the tax-free amount will be 10,000.? Now we in New Poland are proposing a tax-free amount of 30,000, and this is all wrong, it all sucks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Because it didn't work well.]] Count, count. Don't do propaganda. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, because very many people are in the voice and unfortunately not all will be able to ask the question, the last will be Mrs Ewa Szymańska, the Law and Justice. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u144	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! A Member of Law and Justice spoke before me. He was talking about the rule of law, about its impact on the National Reconstruction Plan to be launched. You've been ruining the law for the last six years. You're the one we demand the rule of law to have the money. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to refer to the situation we have right now. Citizens passed the test with the help of the Ukrainians. They helped the Ukrainians in an extremely difficult situation. Now it's time for the Polish government to pass the tax test for Poles. That's the project we had. This project turned out to be the biggest bubble. For the past six years, we have had seven ministers, seven finance ministers. I'm not gonna talk about the number of retired vice-ministers. He resigned the last minister who praised Poland's Lad. The Prime Minister also praised this Polish Ład. And what do we know about the Polish Lad? That it's chaos that there's no relief for single parents raising their children that you don't correct it. The Minister is talking about the tax on state repairs, but it is the state that has paid such a tax to entrepreneurs. You're not telling the truth because the tax-free amount isn't 30,000. We're paying a premium, which is up to 30,000. - 9% taxation, between 30 and 120 - 26% taxation and more than 130 000. - 45% taxation. Introduced premium ZUS - 19,52 . [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing you don't say is that the 17 billion that are supposed to go into the pockets of Poles will also be paid by Poles, those who earn more. Neutral is this tax, this Polish Load... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u146	We want an amount of free, specified tax threshold. You can throw the rest in the trash like Lex Black. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u147	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He hasn't been born that way yet. [[And you don't like anybody.]] In your day, high unemployment, low income, hundreds of thousands of companies, small businesses that didn't have a market, fell. [[The voice from the hall: Hundreds of thousands rained?]] Affirmative. [[And now we live in a PiS paradise plus.]] Salaries were suspended in many public sectors. That's what happened. That's what you have to admit. Today, when the Government of Law and Justice introduces aid systems for Polish families, Polish children, Polish pensioners, when the labour market is aroused, when there is virtually no unemployment, because we use the labour force from other countries, there is economic development, you submit demands... [[And the highest inflation.]] ...which in your day were not realized. Today there are also some shortcomings regarding the introduction of the Polish Deal. I hope that the Minister will straighten things out in the short term. But I also have a question about whether the Polish Lad will continue support for pensioners. What can they count on? There are pensioners who receive retirement but also earn money and have income from other activities. Will the health contribution also be maintained in the case of those income they earn by taking other activities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u150	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 24 February, Members of the Civic Coalition met with another affected group. New Deal. This group are single mothers and fathers who raise children who have been taken away from the possibility of tax settlement together with the child. The protesting mothers indicated that they were surprised by this sudden change, a change not socially consulted and introduced at the last minute, as many laws did. They feel affected and hurt by the fact that the Prime Minister and his government have not taken into account the fact that a group of single parents raising children is very diverse. There are widows and widowers in it, people who have been freed from the so-called. violence marriages, lonely babysitters for different reasons and tragedies. These are citizens, Poles and Poles who, due to special circumstances, are in a difficult situation of life. I can only express my regret, ladies and gentlemen, that neither you or the Prime Minister have met with this group. What did the mothers say? We're invisible to a government that says we're not family. The new relief of PLN 1500 in times of rising inflation does not compensate for the losses resulting from the elimination of the existing rules. These single mothers and these single fathers stress that they need to work more to provide their children with care in kindergarten, equal access to education and development opportunities. So I ask the Prime Minister, the author of the New Deal, through the Minister, when the changes will be made and restored in order to improve the regulation for single parents raising their children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For six years we have heard from the opposition that everything that the Law and Justice Government is doing is wrong. And the numbers say something else. We have preliminary data from the implementation of the budget for the previous year and these figures are really very good. Where does this come from? Poles simply do what they think is right, and the government of Law and Justice, listening to what is right, makes changes that allow people to be richer and to do their business better. This period, 6 years you are in opposition, is primarily about scaring. You have to count on the fact that one day there might be a situation where you take over, and I'm curious about how you're going to refer to this rhetoric of fear later. This is a path in an absolutely wrong direction. Now there will be questions to the Minister asking for an answer. The health contribution is one of the fundamental or very important components of the Polish Order and in order to level things out, it must also be stimulated through the tax system or payment system for this collection, among others. Health care funds, therefore, Minister, a request for clarification: How did the health contribution developed until the end of last year paid by individuals earning income from different sources? First of all, I am interested in comparing the health contribution a month paid by a earner, for example. 4,000. gross zloty for the employment contract, which person employed on the contract and which person carrying out the business. What did it look like in the case of company presidents? Have these people ever paid a health contribution before? I would also like to inform you about what changed in this area Polish Load. What does it mean for each of these people? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, look at and look at these preliminary results regarding the budget (the bell) of the state, as well as the condition of Polish local governments. That's the best answer to what policy we've been doing over the last six years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u153	Thank you. I have information for you. We will be able to continue this debate, and even more people will be able to ask questions, because the next item we need to start on time. 13.30. So that we can have a debate to this point. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And what was that for? The program was supposed to be a government card, and it's a government disaster. It's a mess. This is the end of quick, thoughtless, unconsulted, unexamined terms - even more could be introduced - by introducing new tax solutions. You'd like to say, all of a sudden, it's for the devil. How is an ordinary citizen to be found in all this? How to find a tax administration that does not understand many new solutions by itself, because it has not been prepared in substance, organizationally and IT to implement them. Training to prepare employees for new solutions has been completely neglected. Instead of training - webinars promoting infantile passwords of the Polish Order. Training activity aimed at the so-called. language relief. Where's the U.S. Marshals? Yeah, in the woods. You're on your own, Pole. Aside from the mess, there is yet another problem, the spectrum of protesting action by tax officials who have had enough. Enough with the introduction of new solutions. Enough of leaving yourself with problems. Enough arrogance from superiors to reported problems. Quite low wages. Enough mess. Today we have our heads on other, more important issues, but we cannot forget about problems related to the Polish Ład, which may not be with great force at this moment, but will soon speak again because they have not been solved, errors have not been corrected. Minister, when do you fix this mess? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u156	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Polish Load is not only a tax, but well, a spoon of honey will spoil. So about the day was already there, about the tax was almost all the speeches of the opposition, so I'm going to talk a little bit about honey, because tax isn't everything. The family's caring capital provides that for the second and subsequent child in a family aged between 12 and 35 months of age, the amount is 12 000. PLN to be used within one year or within 2 years. This solution has been operational since 1 January this year. Aids are also foreseen for crèches, children's clubs and daily carers in the amount of PLN 400 per child per month for which no welfare capital is available. The funding will start running from 1 April this year with the possibility of compensation from 1 January. It will be paid at the request of the parent by the Social Security Office directly to the institution where the child is present. I also have a question for the Minister about other family support instruments introduced by the Polish Load. And again, what my colleague said about the fact that the opposition MEPs are acting against the government's proposals and payments to Poland of EU funds, I will say this: others are astonished. What if the Ukrainian opposition were acting against Zełenski at the moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Embarrassing, yeah. Like Lawrow said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u157	Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u158	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just go to the street of any of the Polish cities to see long queues to the exchangers. It is the Poles and Poles who convert the gold into Euros and dollars at an overpriced rate. With a sense of loss, they're trying to save their savings. Even before Russia's attack on Ukraine inflation in Poland was crazy, and we felt expensive at every step, also through the Polish Load. The war only deepened it, and that's why the gold is losing value so much. What can we do about it? We should begin our efforts to enter the euro area as soon as possible. A special time requires brave decisions. Joining the monetary union is economic, economic and political security. If we were in the euro area, we wouldn't feel that way about the currency right now. This lack of currency risk, i.e. investing in Poland will be more profitable. Slovakia has seen a five-fold increase in foreign investment since its entry into the euro area. Eurozone countries are in debt much cheaper because this zone is simply credible. We would issue Eurobonds twice as cheap, we would pay double the interest. The NBP could solve PLN 500 billion of foreign reserves by reducing the country's debt by several percentage points. Nobody's saying, calmly, that we're going to change these currencies right away, but let's at least try to get close to the conditions that allow us to join this zone. It is high time to take care of the state's finances, reveal their condition, because now you're throwing spending out of the budget and we have no control over it. We need a stable exchange rate and control over inflation. There must be an end to any feud with the Union, because it seems that there is no doubt in this Chamber that the real enemy is in Moscow and not in Brussels. If Ukraine could ask to enter the Union (the bell), then Poland can ask to enter the euro area, even on exceptional terms. In the current situation, it will be our best insurance policy. I appeal for this debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice. [[How much is the euro area debt? Do you know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a question which entrepreneurs report to the tax system of the Polish Government: Why is the income to be paid by entrepreneurs different than the income to be taxed? Why the income to be covered is more widely understood than in income tax, e.g. Isn't the income to be paid up adjusted for the remanent difference, losses, exempt income, subsidies, subsidies? The Minister mentioned this problem in his speech, the government listens to the opinions of the various social groups and tries to implement the demands that are possible to implement. I would ask that this matter be made clear again: What will be the final solution to this problem? Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u161	Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! But you've been given a job, and I think it's been easier to negotiate your departure from coal with mining trade unions than to implement this disorder. But to the point. Minister, in the international ranking of tax competitiveness Poland occupies the last, 36th place - on 37 seats. Unfortunately, the trend is decreasing. This means that we have one of the most complicated and hostile tax systems in the world. Only Italy has a less friendly system. It is better in Colombia, Chile, Mexico, but also in our neighbours: Germany, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. And now through Polish disorder this complex tax system will become even more hostile, and our economy will become even more uncompetitive. Minister, so maybe instead of complicate this system even more and looking for money in the pockets of entrepreneurs, in people's pockets, it's time to end the dispute with the European Union and mobilise funds from the EU's Reconstruction Fund? That's over 278 billion zlotys that are waiting. In the current international situation it is the Polish right to reach for these funds. Is the government taking action in this direction? Minister, it is time to put Mr Ziobro in the corner, eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber, improve relations with the European Union and use the funds that Poland has been waiting for since May last year. It is time to take this 278 billion PLN and implement the Polish Green Load in place of tax disorder. [[Voices from the room: Good, good.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u163	Thank you very much. Ms Anna April, Law and Justice now have the floor. We're running out of time for the speeches. There is no Member. This is Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition. I'm gonna let four more people speak, and I'm gonna close this list because we need to be in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Health tax, i.e. the health contribution, which is actually called health tax, has been introduced - health tax for entrepreneurs - on all income invoices, i.e. also on the sale of property or property of the company, which has no practical effect on the company's income. This is very, very unfair. Is that why entrepreneurs - because they're treating themselves privately, because the state service is limping and they don't have time for it, and the businessman is counting on time like money - will they have any higher health care for this, or can they count on anything? That's the first problem. And the other one. I do not know if you know that from 1 July banks will be exempted from banking secrecy at the request of the tax office, so the tax office will have an insight into all operations, into all transactions in business accounts, which, I say, does not put them in a very difficult situation, because entrepreneurs do not seem to have anything to hide as to how they feel right now. This will be a full surveillance of their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna have to bring it back a little bit. here to the Polish Łódź due to its recognition. This is a new socio-economic system that we have had since this year. Tax changes within the Polish government are the biggest reform for almost 20 years and this is the unprecedented, largest tax reduction in the history of the Third Republic. This is a very forward-looking reform. We're just going to evaluate it objectively after a year. There are things that should be discussed here right now, and they should also talk to the government, to the Minister, to correct it, but they are not big holes, they are not big shortcomings. I have to say that local authorities really use Polish government enormously - the generational hole and the civilization hole are flooded, it is changed, Poland is developing. Not only local governments - they lost at some point, but gained in another - but also the middle economic class, the middle class which is the foundation of a democratic state also in the Polish Łódź is honoured. I have here a reservation with the Minister about the health contribution because this has been discussed a lot. Many small and medium-sized enterprises, with different titles paying a premium and not being able to deduct it from the tax, feel a little uncomfortable, so you should talk about this health contribution. And I have a question for the Minister about PIT-2. What really causes this, because there was a great deal of confusion with employees' salaries at the beginning of this year, what does PIT-2 really matter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like an explanation from the boardroom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u167	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. There isn't? [[I am, I am, but I think Mr Wojciechowski was earlier.]] There it is. Ah, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski. I'm sorry, actually.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the rental of private apartments and the settlement of this rental in a PIT statement. Well, the solutions so far were not entirely clear. Very often, the level of adrenaline rose when settling this tax. Minister, what will these solutions look like today? I wanted to point out that this rental market is changing a little bit. This caused a pandemic, and this also caused a situation related to the war in Ukraine. There is greater dynamics in renting apartments and, at the same time, it seems that the needs in this area, especially as regards short-term rentals, will be much greater, and therefore the development of this market is to be expected. Will this make it easier and, above all, clarity in the legislation in relation to the current solutions? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u169	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u170	My basic question concerns the situation of the social sphere, including pensioners. How did the situation of pensioners change before and after tax changes? Please give examples taking into account specific amounts. As a result of the relief that all pensioners, all Poles, will benefit you from practically an additional pension, i.e., by summing it up, 15? Thirteen is, of course, paid, and 14 are also announced, but the effect of these tax changes is an additional pension for all pensioners. I would like to ask you to confirm this fact. On the other hand, I have to react here on local issues, because I still hear this incorrect, wrong, falsified information from the opposition Members - I do not mention by name, so as not to cause any more discussion. I would like to remind you, on the example of Łódź, that education subsidy was reduced practically under the governments of SLD and PSL, also under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. It decreased in 2002, in 2003, in 2004 and in 2013 and 2014. This is a picture, a graph about this. Even under AWS, the subsidy has increased, it has increased at the level of... I'll give you the value...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u171	Mr President, let us try to cut short because a few more Members want to speak. Let's cut back on time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u172	...is over PLN 80 million in the case of Łódź. In the years 2018-2021 (The Bell) increased by 130 million under the rule of the United Right. This is... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u173	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice. Please, Mr President, briefly so that everyone can speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I had another question prepared, but tempted by some encouragement, improvising, but I will change the formula. I'll use 1 minute 50 seconds. Member Sławomir Skwarek asked from this place what the effects - the effects, not the effects - of the Polish Deal for a person with a minimum salary will be. And I'm going to say, "What are the effects or effects for a person who has 10 times more, 33,000?" With a piece, Minister? 'Cause where's the dog buried? Skwarek - you authorized me - skinny, thin. Before the fat guy loses weight, five times the skinny shit goes down. An old Polish saying. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a democratic dispute over money. Yeah, the election's coming up, maybe next year, maybe earlier. Poles will ask the question: Was it better for eight years of those liberal governments of me and my family, or during those - burdened with various errors and omissions? Also Polish Load unfortunately introduced a thin... [[Cheaper.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u175	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u176	I'm almost done. Mr, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Your statement. One of the most noble people in the Seym, Czesław Siekierski, said that despite everything, the sphere of poverty has increased. Yes, during the crisis, during the COVID, real income per capita per person in Polish families decreased by 8%. In the weakest families... [[How much is butter now?]] ...and they grew up in the richest ones you're defending. That's the truth. That's the truth, and you have to say it openly, not pretend. [[How much butter?]] There's the rage of those who will have to reduce their income, make a little less money. And the weight goes to millions of ordinary people. They're gonna get 100 zlotys, and the others are gonna lose thousands. Is that bad or good? That's the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u177	Okay, thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing this thought, one might ask the question: Will the cleaning lady still pay a higher tax, or the person who makes 30,000.? High Seym! There were almost 30 years to carry out tax reforms. Economists pointed out that without tax reforms there would be no faster economic growth. For two decades there has been no courage to decide on a thorough tax reform. Polish Load is the biggest tax reform in 30 years. Yeah, I agree, we need to keep working on that. That's what you just said to the Minister. I think this work will answer the question asked by Mr Cymanski for Mr Skwark. We want the reform to cover as many people working as possible, just up to PLN 12 800.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You don't have an MP? Well, that's not bad. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Isn't there one? Oh, then you can finish your statement calmly, because we have only Mrs Teresa Pamuła left, and then Mr Andrzej Noblet, and that is that. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The replacement of classical CIT with profit distribution tax was recommended by the US as the most effective and pro-investmental way of taxing business in the 1990s. Its implementation in Estonia in 2000 had amazing economic effects and almost doubled the pace of economic growth and private investment. In Estonian CIT there is no need to keep tax accounting, to set tax costs for obtaining revenue, to calculate depreciation taxes. This tax - because Estonian CIT was introduced in 2021 - has been paid by public limited liability companies and companies. Minister! I wanted to ask what other changes in the Polish Lada concern the Estonian tax, so as to lower it even more and encourage entrepreneurs to switch to this Estonian tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish Load is a modern socio-economic program, but also a major civilization challenge. It is intended to be a comprehensive strategy to overcome the effects of the unprecedented global COVID-19 pandemic. The programme is not perfect due to its wide scope, covering almost all areas of socio-economic life, but is intended to be a remedy for the key problems of life of most Poles. As part of the Polish Government's programme, the most serious, far-reaching tax change is made: raising the tax-free amount to 30 thousand. PLN for all working Poles, raising the second tax threshold in PIT tax, introducing special tax reliefs in it. This actual tax reduction, which started last year with the reduction of the first tax rate from 18% to 17% and the exemption of young taxpayers to 26 years of age entirely on income tax, will lead to an increase in the progressive tax wedge. Taxes will be lower for low- and medium-income people, in total for about 18 million beneficiaries of this change, including pensioners and pensioners. It will also be fairer for those with higher incomes. The most important priority of the Polish Government is health protection, for which expenditure will be raised within 6 years to 7% gross domestic product. The Hospital Modernization Fund and the Patient Service Centre will be created. In the area of infrastructure, the Central (Bell) Communication Port will be created.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u183	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u184	These are the basic strategic objectives that are worth talking about today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u185	Now I ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When rockets hit children's hospitals, and people fight for their lives, everything else pales. Business problems seem less important to us, tax mess becomes less important. In the face of war, even the mistakes of the government and prime ministers, Prime Minister Kaczyński, Prime Minister Szydło or Prime Minister Morawiecki, i.e. prime ministers, who destroyed the democratic legal state of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] They have therefore destroyed the entire legal environment for entrepreneurship. They destroyed what the European Commission calls a good business climate. This is why today Polish entrepreneurs and Polish local governments, i.e. those who have taken on the greatest burden of aid for refugees, cannot benefit from the funds of the National Plan for Reconstruction. And although today we all, including the government and the media, focus our attention primarily on what is happening in Ukraine, we must not put aside our problems and issues which are crucial for the Polish economy. The fact that the conditions for running companies and tax mess are less important than ensuring the security of our borders is only a short-term delusion. Because long-term, for tanks, for planes, for missile and anti-aircraft defenses, you need money. We need taxes, we need Polish companies, we need young, creative, talented Poles who want to work and pay taxes here in our homeland. The Sejm is about to begin work on the Homeland Defense Act. Good. But this is the mysterious anticipatory funding that Prime Minister Kaczyński spoke about in terms of military spending, that is, my dear people, future taxes on entrepreneurs and all of you, dear fellow countrymen. [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] It is not money that will fall like the Bible's manna from heaven. [[Voice from the hall: In Zakopane they may be.]] I repeat: in order to finance additional, going in hundreds of billions of zlotys, expenditure on the army, on increasing the defence of Poland, there must be companies in Poland... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] ...which have a good climate and a good legal environment around them. Therefore, I call on the Polish government in the face of war, which is right next to our borders: Consider whether this so-called one. Polish Ład strengthens the Polish economy, whether it strengthens Polish entrepreneurship, whether it strengthens Poland's resilience to crises, or finally the so-called one. Polish Governance strengthens the innovation of our economy. [[Voice from the room: It strengthens.]] And yet, to make Poland a strong, wealthy country, with a well-armed army... [[Voice from the room: She's strong for good luck.]] ...someone has to make money for it. And Polish Governance weakens Polish companies. [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam President, certainly not.]] Without Polish companies, without small, medium-sized Polish enterprises that build Polish GDP, it is not possible to maintain a strong army and ensure security for all Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] Today it seems quite convenient for the government not to talk about the Polish Lade, not to talk about 6 years of fatal foreign policy, not to talk about nightmare alliances with those who support Putin's aggressive regime. [[This is Agent Putin's voice.]] [[A voice from the room: an agent like nothing.]] I hope that today everyone, including those screaming Members of the PiS and the Government, realizes that this policy has collapsed like a house of cards... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] ...this policy has gone bankrupt. It is high time to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the Third World War, which was announced a few months ago by Prime Minister Morawiecki, came to Poland from a completely different perspective than was expected by Prime Minister Morawiecki. And it is worth to realize that for Poland to be on a safe, democratic side, it is important for the government to turn away from the road that it was going on two months ago. And it really isn't just about the EU flags against which the President and Prime Minister have been standing for a week. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u187	The assurance of unity is false and can be heard in your speech. [[Voice from the hall: Have you not heard what they were shouting?]] So that I do not know what happened, the opposition, and especially you, will always be against Poland. And that's a shame. [[Applause]] The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Artur Soboń, will now speak. Shame on you. [[Voice from the room: Anti-Polish.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We had a debate where I heard important voices, interesting voices. For these votes, in particular regarding the support of taxpayers, and companies, and individuals, in connection with their assistance today to the Ukrainians, thank you very much. In the package that we are preparing as a government and on which we will work, there are also tax exemptions for individuals and the cost of helping companies. As soon as this debate is finished, I will finish preparing - I hope it will be issued today - a VAT regulation. Poles who help will receive tax aid from the government. And for the votes that indicated the necessity, I would like to thank you very much. But unfortunately, Mrs Morawiecki, this debate ended in disgraceful words about the fact that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki destroyed the democratic rule of law and expected war from another side. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Those are the words...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u189	Treason. Those are the words of treason. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: ...today, in today's reality, disgraceful and should not fall in this House during this debate. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the hall: These fell once.]] [[Voice from the room: Poisoned brain.]] Secondly, of course, these proposals for changes, which we will prepare, we will first show employers' organisations, social organisations, trade unions, but also those responsible for keeping accounting books, staff matters... [[Voice from the room: Self-government.]] ...to local governments, including tax advisors. In short, these consultations will be realistic. And only then will we come to you. Your vote will also be important in this debate. I don't want to start with these proposals. Please note that since I have been dealing with this issue, i.e. for about a month, I have never spoken publicly in this matter, so as not to introduce any, even minimal, chaos. These will be precise solutions, which I hope will be supported by the entire High House. And the fact that the tax system was constructed in 2021 otherwise... Like I said, he was unfair and complicated. These solutions are really hard to defend. You have strongly defended the deduction of tax contributions, but this solution does not work in the European Union. Either there is no such deduction or there is a deduction from the tax base. That, of course, is something we can talk about when changing. It is not that these good changes are only a high amount free or a higher second threshold. These are R &amp; D reliefs and this is a lot of pressure for companies to invest. We have more and more companies that choose Estonian CIT and which are actually ready to invest instead of paying taxes. That is what we want, that these investments, not only public ones, which in the Polish Łada should also be financed from European funds - this is a clear position of the Polish government - but also private ones... There are issues to be dealt with. I'm addressing everyone who's been talking about single people raising children. It is undoubtedly a matter that should be arranged so that those people on the Polish Lad don't lose. How she's gonna be resolved, I'm gonna talk to this community, too. This should be a solution no worse than what these people know. Finally, one last thing. At such a difficult time and in such a serious debate, the real worst thing is to use a simple lie and say, repeat things that you know aren't true. Mrs Hennig-Kloska said that her husband, who makes 6,000. zł, paid more tax year by year with the same amount of earnings. I'm the one who can bet on good wine today, that it's just not true. Because it's not true. In this debate it is worth telling the truth, it is worth proposing solutions, it is worth talking seriously, because it is about our common money, this money, the Member, which will also serve to strengthen the security of Poland, strengthen the Polish army and build strong Poland, Poland strong economically... [[Municipal companies.]] ... Poland strong demographically, Poland strong militaryly, Poland strong with its tradition, culture and unity. On this issue too, however, this elementary unity should be preserved, and these words, Mrs Leszczyna, once again I am speaking to Mrs Leszczyna (The Bell), were simply disgraceful. [[Applause]] [[What about municipal companies?]] [[They don't understand.]] Thank you. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a three-minute break before the next point. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 29 hours 13 min 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u190	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on defence of the Homeland (print No. 2052). Please take the floor of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a difficult task before the Seym. It must be passed, maybe I should use the term: the Homeland Defense Act should be passed. It is a powerful normative act of the size of the code: 804 articles, 26 departments, divided divisions, at least a significant part of them, into chapters, some chapters still divided into divisions, or developed systematics. This law fully repeals 14 laws and amends 81. It is the basis for issuing about 150 regulations. These regulations, according to the current text of the Act, are not even final, because only submitted in the Seym, are to be adopted within 36 months. I immediately announce that this deadline should be shortened. It should be shortened because of the situation, because the whole operation must be carried out sooner than we thought. This law was prepared not only before the outbreak of the war, but also before the concentration of troops around Ukrainian borders began. It has been prepared based on the experience of the last dozen years, which have clearly shown that Russia is able to use force for the realization of its interests, for the implementation of the plan to rebuild the empire, but we did not think that the first such drastic steps in this area would be taken so quickly: it can be said, in terms of the period of preparation of the bill, that almost immediately. That is why there will be other amendments to the committee on important matters, but you will talk about this by the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Dworczyk. On the other hand... I'm sorry, Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. [[Voice from the hall: I'm ashamed of you.]] Thank you very much. I thank you for this sense of solidarity that you have expressed at this moment in such a special situation. [[Applause]] Well, this law, I repeat, large, extensive, has of course an ordering function, because the basic law, one of those 14 repealed, the Act on the obligation to defend the Polish People's Republic, later it was changed to the Polish Republic, is from November 1967. It can be said that from the middle of the Polish People's Republic, because 1967 - of course it can be counted differently - is the middle year of the Polish People's Republic. [[Voice from the room: the Republic of Poland.]] To be exact, not in the sense of the name, because this was adopted only in 1952, but in the sense of the political system that existed here. So almost 55 years, a completely different time. And that's why we need to clean up. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the main reason for this bill. This is an important and sufficient condition, but at the same time it is far from the only one and far from the basic one. The basic premise is the feeling I already mentioned that we have on the northern border, and through Belarus in some sense Also on the eastern border, and perhaps (the bell) in a moment, also not only on the eastern border, but also on the eastern border in the southern part - means not only the north-eastern border - a country that behaves in a way that we can see fully today. That's why you need a defense. Hence also the main assumptions from which we came out, creating this law. First of all, you have to have the basis expressed once by a great poet: you have to measure your forces against your intentions, and not your intention by force, that is, in short, all the restrictions that have bound us for many years, also in this matter, in the case of the Polish Armed Forces, their financing, all kinds of activities associated with it, must not be completely rejected this time, but to a large extent limited, you can say: suspended, because there is a state of higher necessity. There is a state of higher necessity, but there is also a change of situation which I have to talk about here. I may even need to make at least a certain part of the House aware, on both sides, that Poland is much, much stronger today than it was years ago when new times began. We have more than three times the GDP, and thus much more economic opportunities. We need to get out of this sense of poverty, a sense of national micromania. And that's condition one. Message two. We are, of course, aware of the limitations arising from the rules introduced by the European Union during the crisis. I'm talking about the 3%. an acceptable budget deficit and appropriate procedures that may be taken by the Union if this is exceeded. But I also wanted to inform the High House that talks are ongoing and there is a chance that the expenditure on arms is not included in this deficit. [[Applause]] This is needed today, very much needed and this needs to be taken into account. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this programme - because this law is also a programme - is not just a law that simply defines a certain legal state, it is also the adoption of a certain, once again emphasized programme - it will be an expensive, very expensive programme. Since we would like to implement it within 5 years, it is important to say to ourselves clearly: we are not able to create such funds at that time from the state budget and from other sources in order to achieve this. Therefore, the construction of this project is as follows: part of the expenditure is budget expenditure, and there will also be an amendment - 3% GDP to the arms budget next year. [[Applause]] We'll increase that later. The second part of the expenditure, those for the purchase of weapons, will be powerful and will already be expenditures from loans, including long-term loans, from bonds, to some extent also those that can be surrendered. In short, it will not be as much a burden as the sums themselves, which I will not talk about here for various reasons. Anyway, it's not quite possible to calculate them right now. Why? Just because we don't know exactly where we're gonna buy that gun. Of course, everything you can buy from our arms industry will be purchased from our arms industry. [[Applause]] We want to develop it, but many things will certainly be impossible to produce in Poland in the coming years. We have to take that into account. We must also ask ourselves what the political conditions will be. Today they are good, but politics is variable, especially with our main, as it seems, contractor, or the United States. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is still on some issues - especially with regard to certain types of weapons, particularly effective, particularly dangerous, but, of course, to be clear, it is not nuclear weapons that we are not going to pursue - a question mark at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a second assumption expressed by the famous saying: you want peace, get ready for war. What does that mean in practice? This in practice means that these forces, this large and very well-armed army, is primarily to have a deterrent function. We want peace, we do not want war (Applause), but for this peace to be a fact that our possible opponents, whom we know and who we know how they operate, were convinced that the attack on Poland is not worthwhile, then we must have a very strong army. Even if we look at these events, the tragic events that we are dealing with right now, we can say this: the whole world is mobilizing against Russia today. Why? Because Ukrainians resist. [[Applause]] Because Ukrainians have put up, at least so far, effective and heroic resistance. [[Applause]] Without this, if Putin's plan were to succeed, if all of his fundamental assumptions were fulfilled within 48 or 72 hours - there is no doubt about it - the world's response would be incomparably less acute, incomparably less effective and therefore incomparably less effective. That is why we need to know that only those who defend themselves will receive help, including NATO. [[Applause]] Because, of course, that's the kind of help we're hoping for, but first we have to rely on ourselves. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is a third issue that I have to tell you, although we certainly can't get her through this bill. This is a morale issue for our army. Morale is of great importance today in Ukraine, it can be seen, and thus - also the state of consciousness of our society. The morale of the army, the determination of society doesn't come out of nowhere. It comes from attachment to your own nation, feeling of belonging to the community, from community thinking. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] All this was constantly attacked in Poland for many years. I don't want to raise any controversy here, I don't want to give examples, but we really have no choice but to act in this direction, and together, to change all of this. We need a new social pedagogy, a new social pedagogy that will sustain, strengthen, and often - we need to use this word - rebuild the Polish community. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Only then will we be able to be sure that even this very well-armed and large army will actually be able to act, that we will be safe and free. I will now remind you of two articles of the Polish Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland: art. 85 and Article 85 82, I think anything's forgotten. This law is now fulfilling - you can say - the dispositions of these articles. The first one, the one with the higher number, speaks of the duty to defend the homeland, and the other one speaks of the faithfulness of the Republic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Since the Constitution has been spoken very often in this House for many years, I would like to remind you that the Constitution is a whole and that these articles are a very important part of the Constitution and we must respect them, we must put them into practice. [[Applause]] This bill, this whole big project, this program we want to implement, is what it's meant to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u192	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now, please justify the bill of the Minister of National Defence of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński for supporting this project so much. If it hadn't been for Prime Minister Kaczyński, this project wouldn't have turned into a bill. For several months, we discussed this at the Committee of Ministers for National Security and Defence Affairs. I can say that some of these ideas are the ideas of Prime Minister Kaczyński. [[Applause]] I would also like to point out that we talked about this recently last night and a few groundbreaking amendments that are about to be tabled may be reported because the leader of the United Right Camp supported it. So, Prime Minister, thank you very much for this. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Difficult times require decisive decisions. That's, among other things. The demilitarisation policy promoted by some Western countries and the belief that Europe was safe allowed Putin to believe that he could do anything. We're in crisis today. Russia has carried out a barbaric attack on the sovereign Ukrainian state. The established international order has been demolished and it is likely that a return to the realities of the war will no longer be possible. NATO Member States, especially those located on the eastern flank like Poland, must have strong, numerous, modern, well-equipped and adequately funded troops. [[Applause]] It's the only prescription for an aggressor from the East to give a clear signal. We're strong and capable of fighting. It is a basic condition that the scenario from Ukraine should not be repeated in our country. It's the only way to protect our safety, our homes and our children. That's why I'm asking the High Sejm to adopt the Homeland Defense Act. It is a law, thanks to which we will not only increase the number of the Polish Army, but also expenditure on the Armed Forces, recreate the system of reserves, encourage soldiers to remain in service and implement the concept of universal defence. It's a good recipe for difficult times. [[Applause]] High Seym! Thanks to the work of the Committee on National Security and Defence Affairs and in close cooperation with the military community, we have developed solutions that will change the face of the Armed Forces. I would like to stress that this project was also consulted with the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. The Homeland Defense Act provides for the repeal of as many as 14 laws governing defence and military affairs, which often contained archaic regulations. The most important of them, i.e. The law on the universal obligation of defence of the Republic of Poland, comes from 1967. It is high time to think about military regulations, not talk about the law that was created in the Polish People's Republic. It is time for full modernity in the Polish Army. [[Applause]] We will provide additional funding for the Armed Forces thanks to the National Fund for Armed Forces Support at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It will be powered, among others. revenue from Treasury securities, BGK bonds or contributions from the State budget. We need to significantly increase the effort for defence, so that the Polish Army has even greater deterrent potential. That's why we've decided that defence spending will not reach 2.5%. GDP, as expected before, but 3% GDP as early as 2023. [[Applause]] And here again I thank you to Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. That's what we were talking about yesterday. This is an extremely important decision that would not have happened if it had not been for the support of the Prime Minister. We'll introduce voluntary primary military service. Voluntary primary military service, I repeat. It will be designed for volunteers who will receive 28 days of basic training and then 11 months of specialized training. During this period they will receive a salary of over 4 000. zł. This will allow us to increase the armed forces' numbers to around 300,000. soldiers in a few years. It's gonna be about $250,000. professional soldiers and about 50,000. Those are the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army. We'll also rebuild the reserve system. There will be an active and passive reserve. It won't just be a paper service. We will organize regular exercises so that we have as many trained people as possible, who will be ready to defend their homeland immediately in the event of a crisis. [[Applause]] We will introduce, among others. motivational service for soldiers who remain longer in service. Those who choose to stay in the service after 25 years will receive an additional 1500 PLN and 28.5 - 2.5 PLN. thousands. zł. We'll create an incentive system for military students. The salary of the sick will be equal to the professional soldiers in these degrees. There will be a scholarship program for people who would like to serve in the military after civil studies. We're gonna build an Academic Legion program that's gonna power the reserves. We will also reform the military administration. In view of the situation in Ukraine, the number of field military administrations will be maintained. This is another one of the amendments. The first amendment is 3%. GDP in 2023 and in subsequent years. The next amendment is to maintain the military field administration, although its tasks will change. We will leave a provision that will enable the Minister for National Defence through a regulation after an analysis of the functioning of these bodies under the new law to make appropriate changes. This is another amendment that we have prepared to ensure that, in a situation of threat, in a situation of war that is taking place beyond our eastern border, the mobilization system will not give in to any damage, because we are aware that such cases could happen through reorganisation. So we don't reorganize the system, but we leave the possibility of such reorganisation in the future. [[Applause]] The next amendment concerns the State Treasury guarantee to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for issuing bonds. Guarantee of the Treasury not as an opportunity, but as a basis. The bonds issued by BGK to the Fund will be covered by State Treasury guarantees. This is an action aimed at making securities issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego more attractive. We have also accelerated the entry into force of the Act. Another amendment states that the Act will enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, while the implementing acts referred to by Prime Minister Kaczyński will enter into force 18 months after the date of publication of the Act. We have also introduced an amendment that will allow soldiers of the Polish Army to access medical services in military health facilities outside the order. However, the provision of the amendment is so formulated that this right does not affect the rights of other recipients who have the right to benefit beyond the order of health care benefits arising from the provisions of that law. It's about the veterans, it's about the pregnant women. This is another provision that we will amend by presenting amendments. There will also be a full set of legislative amendments, but we will certainly be talking more about this in committee. Military recruitment centers will be set up, as I have already mentioned, and their tasks are to recruit new candidates for service. Before, I talked about our ambition to make the Polish Army more numerous. Only many troops are strong. No one should have any doubts about that. So the Polish Army must be more numerous. Crisis management in the Polish Army will be carried out by the Army of Territorial Defence, which have already passed numerous exams, among others. during the pandemic of Coronavirus, the removal of the effects of natural disasters or during the protection of the Polish-Belarusian border. Here, side by side with the soldiers of the operational forces, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army have maintained the border under the pressure of hybrid attacks by the Lukashenka regime. We're gonna break through the glass ceiling with which the privates and the Petty Officers were meeting to move to a higher body. Until now, the road to higher degrees has often been closed for these soldiers. The Polish Army must be a service that gives us prospects for development and we will ensure that. [[Applause]] I want to make it clear that the Homeland Defense Act is well thought out and well planned. We have the implementation plan ready and we are preparing the implementation documents. The transition from the current rules to the new ones will be smooth. High Seym! These are just some of the laws that we're introducing into the new Homeland Defense Act. This code regulation has more than 800 articles. It is a good bill, which is needed not only for the Polish Army, but also for the whole Republic. We create opportunities and prospects that have not yet been known to the Armed Forces. There will be a framework to have one of the strongest armies in the North Atlantic Alliance. Such a Polish Army is needed for our homeland, especially now, when behind our eastern border trying to regenerate the empire of evil. I therefore appeal to you. This isn't the time for happiness or fuss. We should adopt the Homeland Defense Act as part of a cross-party agreement and allow for the construction of an even stronger and better equipped Polish Army. We can't afford to argue right now. People are dying in Ukraine. The whole world was convinced of what Westerplatte said already in 2009. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland. I quote: You must not yield to imperialism or even neoimperial tendencies. The current situation clearly shows that our security policy was correct. We have created a Territorial Defence Army in Poland. It is this type of Ukrainian armed forces, consisting of motivated and trained volunteers, together with the operational forces, that now plays a key role in the defence of Kiev. We bought Bayraktar TB2 drones manufactured in Turkey. We're all watching how the Bayraktars of the Ukrainian army work today. We have delivered Javelin launchers to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, which are now also crucial for the Ukrainian army. We created 18. The Mechanized Division, which defends the eastern flank of Poland. It operates near the Polish-Ukrainian border and cooperates with additional American forces that have been transferred to our country. The decisions of the Government of Law and Justice regarding defence are in order. We know how to make Poland safe. We know that the Homeland Defense Act in the form it was submitted to the High Sejm is essential. Let the Armed Forces develop at a faster pace, so that the words of the dead. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, from Tbilisi, that today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then perhaps the time for my country, for Poland, were not yet more prophetic. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Honourable Members! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the draft law on defence of the Homeland, print No. 2052. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are starting to process an extremely important law that focuses a set of rules on the wider external security of our homeland. Dear Izbo! When communism fell in 1989, many people, including many politicians throughout Europe, believed that there was an eternal time, say, of biblical peace on our continent. This belief was not changed by the slaughter in the Balkans at the beginning of the 1990s, nor by further wars caused by Putin's Russia. If, after 1989, any country needed money, it saved on national defence. This was also true of our homeland. The military, the armed forces were underinvested. The only country in Europe that did not regret the resources for national defence, for the development of its own forces, was Russia. This increased especially after Vladimir Putin took power. First of all, the offensive potential was rebuilt, with the aim of rebuilding the Soviet Empire or perhaps the Tsar Empire, as President Putin has repeatedly said, identifying the collapse of the Soviet Union as the greatest geopolitical catastrophe after World War II. And Poland joined the Alliance, which we very much value - the North Atlantic Alliance, which was founded many years ago, in 1949. For many years he has been a peace stabilizer and has responded to many of the threats that have been encountered by our society. Ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate this cooperation incredibly, but until we have our own forces that will be able to guarantee us safety, and with current technology it is possible, we will not be able to feel safe. That is why we were very pleased to adopt the decision of the Government of the Republic of Poland of 2020 to set up a Committee of Ministers for National Security and Defence Affairs. Its purpose was to prepare and increase the defence capacity and deter the armed forces... The law was set up in a very short time, which indicates extremely intense work. In a comprehensive way, it covers issues across the entire external security spectrum of the State. It sets out, first, the competent authorities of the State's defence matters and their tasks, second, all issues relating to the recruitment process for military service, as well as the defence duties of citizens, a comprehensive set of rules for the broadly understood military service. programming and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as the implementation by entrepreneurs of tasks for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. One act included a complex of tasks related to providing external security for Poland. As the Prime Minister said earlier, Minister, this law abolishes 14 other laws and refers to more than 80 other acts. Undoubtedly, this law will make managing national security in such a dynamically changing geopolitical environment much easier, while at the same time providing much more opportunities for the development of armed forces and the security environment. You, as Napoleon said, need three things to wage war: first, money, second, money and, third, money. This law solves the extremely complex problem of searching for additional resources for national security. Of course, the Prime Minister was talking about the opportunities in the European Union regarding the possible non-payment of national defence expenditure into state debt, but we do not yet have that. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the details of the provisions of this law, I will not repeat them here, because Minister Mariusz Błaszczak listed them meticulously. I am now addressing the Sejm: our task will be to carry out the law very efficiently throughout the legislative process. I am delighted, as chairman of the Committee on National Defence, by the committee which will investigate this law, the declarations of other parliamentary clubs and the circles of readiness for close cooperation under this law. However, given the situation behind our eastern border, we need to prepare ourselves to work in an extraordinary procedure and to pay particular attention to speeding up legislative work, as our armed forces do not have time to wait for these solutions. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight here two symbolic events that involve the beginning of the legislative process. It's about the bill. When the Committee of Ministers for National Security and Defence Affairs began to work on this Act, no one could predict that we would proceed to it in the course of increasing war activities abroad, in the face of a direct threat. Prime Minister! I think it's an unusual coincidence, but above all, it's a symbol. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice has provided for these threats, and we must deal with this law in such a complex situation beyond our eastern borders, with additional threats, including our tasks, responsibilities and obligations to our ally, Ukraine, as well as an unfinished pandemic. This results in an unusual overlap of various tasks on our country. The second symbol of today's beginning work on the bill is what was already discussed before me, as Minister Mariusz Błaszczak spoke about. The Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland was established in 1967. The termination of its operation this year will also be a symbol of the break-up of the Armed Forces with the times of the Polish People's Republic. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I place on your hands, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, my highest thanks to all people (The Bell) and there is a very large number of them who have contributed to the preparation of this bill. [[Applause]] The Law and Justice Club fully supports this legislative initiative and invites all parties and Members to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And here's the bill. That's the bill we're taking on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u196	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Semoniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Heroic Ukrainians fight for their freedom and ours. [[Applause]] They show what love for an independent homeland should look like. But this independence, in order to keep it, requires a defense. And defense requires a cool head and planning, and cooperation of all political forces. [[Applause]] There is no doubt that the Civic Coalition is in favour of increasing the financing of national defence, increasing the number of the Polish Army and supports the resolution of the Homeland Defense Act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Finally.]] Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this bill contains long-term solutions, solutions building the defence capabilities of the Republic of Poland for many years. The project, as such, was mentioned by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, who was prepared at a completely different time than the present time of the war abroad. I will talk about the bill in a moment, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister, the government, the ruling majority, to think about creating an immediate package of strengthening the Polish Army within weeks and months. The law even with the accelerated date of its entry - this is a good decision, a good amendment - will not solve the problems which the Polish Army has here and now. [[Applause]] We will support the necessary budget transfers to make this possible. I am thinking about Ukraine's experiences with anti-missile, anti-aircraft defense. I think that the programmes are on the verge of being radically accelerated, and we will be ready to support it. [[Applause]] The reinforcement package should also cover civil protection, civil protection, education of citizens as regards protection against threats. I don't know if any of you know where the shelters are or if any of you know how to read the alarm sirens. I think these are things that we should also remember at this difficult moment. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The reinforcement package is also a return of experienced personnel to the Polish Army. [[Applause]] Political unity is also all military hands on board. The bigger army we're talking about here needs officers. It should not be so that in such a situation experienced generals, young generals sit in television studios and do not support the Polish Army. [[Applause]] Why can't General Mieczysław Gocul, educated in Canada and Great Britain, head of the General Staff also during your time and from your application, support the Polish Army now? Why is General Radosław Kujawa, head of military intelligence, also valued by your environment, sitting at home, not helping and advising in this difficult situation? [[Applause]] These are also reserves of the Republic of Poland. I don't think any of them will refuse to cooperate, refuse to support at such a difficult time. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We have examined the bill very carefully. The first rule in this situation should be that this law should not make anything worse in the defence system of the State, so thank you for these amendments, thank you for yesterday's declarations by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński at the National Security Council for the fact that we are reviewing this law in this respect. You can't move the mobilization system, you can't remove military complement commands in this situation. These changes must either be removed or removed from this legislation for a long time. Our doubts are raised by the funding model: next to the national defence budget. The healthiest situation is that defence expenditure is implemented within the state budget, under the control of Parliament, under the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber and in some transparency for citizens. [[Applause]] On the other hand, if such a fund is to be created and there are arguments for the issue of bonds, we propose that, in the spirit of this community referred to earlier, we equip the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence with the right to give an opinion on larger purchases for the modernisation of the army. [[Applause]] It's in the United States, it's in Germany. Such a solution, which divides responsibility for purchases, which cost billions or even tens of billions of zlotys, binds the Republic for 10-20 years. It is in the interests of the rulers to share responsibility with the opposition. Please consider such a solution. [[Applause]] We support all records favorable to soldiers, new forms of military service. You have to get the best and stop the HR drain. This part of this bill will, of course, be supported by us. I call for extraordinary openness to this work, for openness to the opposition's amendments. We understand that this project was in a hurry, there were amendments at the last minute. It's understandable, but this project contains a lot of mistakes. They may not be particularly important or fundamental, but it is simply not appropriate to make mistakes in a document of this kind. E.g. there are the same entries in two different articles, I am talking about the article. 24 and Article 24 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of Someone just didn't see it. Please, let us not insist on every word and every sentence, but work within the committee, the subcommittee in such a way that this law is a law that we can all say that we are responsible for it. It should also be added that, despite the name of the Homeland Defense Act, this project does not exhaust all areas of the Homeland's defence. We need to work on regulations on running the state during the war, the role of Minister of National Defence. This matter, in my opinion and our experts, is not dealt with satisfactorily. Also critical issues from the point of view of the current situation, I mean the role of the host state, i.e. the ability to accept allied support in Poland, are not satisfactorily regulated. At this point, when we talk about our allies, I would like to stress that we absolutely support the presence of NATO forces in Poland, especially the forces of the United States. Anything must be done to urgently increase and consolidate this presence. [[Applause]] If this requires greater costs on the part of the Republic of Poland, these costs should be borne. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We remember many such moments of unity of the Polish political class and Polish society. Unfortunately, it has always been so that they lasted for a while and then passed. Today we have an absolutely incomparable situation to any previous one. The threat is real and we need to act accordingly. I appeal to everyone, especially the governing camp, not to waste this unity today, to leave it for national security for ever. We cannot afford for future generations to accuse us that we have wasted this unity and have not ensured the security of the Republic. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u198	Thank you. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland... Excuse me. Before that, Mr Marcin Kulasek, Left. Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u199	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On Black Thursday 24 February 2022, the time of peace in our part of Europe was brutally destroyed. Armed aggression on Ukraine has created a direct threat to the existence of this country and the legitimate aspirations of the Ukrainians to live in a democratic system and enjoy full freedom. Russian aggression has also increased the threat to our homeland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The situation is extraordinary, requires a lot of responsibility for the actions taken and the words spoken. At this point, there is a fundamental question as to whether this extraordinary situation gives us the right to adopt such a hasty act of fundamental importance to the defence of the country. Let us recall: the law that we are working on, whether we adopt it today or in two weeks' time, will come into force on 1 July 2022 and its effects will be visible after a few years. It does not seem justified to adopt such an important law, a constitution for the Polish Army, without minimum time to consult experts. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: with Putin?]] Otherwise, the issue will end in an endless cycle of amendments resulting in legal chaos, which we all now wish to avoid. Despite such limited time, the Left managed to consult different environments. We are talking about a law consisting of 804 articles, repealing 14 laws, including in part the absolute fundamental importance of defence. In addition, the Act profoundly amends dozens of other laws. We see both positive solutions and those that raise our legitimate concerns in the project. Let's start with the positives. We welcome numerous proposals to make military service, both active service and reserve service more attractive. If we want to increase the number of our Armed Forces, this is an obvious direction. An interesting solution is the introduction of voluntary basic military service - I stress the word: voluntary - during which young people will be able to acquire basic military skills for 12 months. High Izbo! Soldiers, like officers, deserve the support and respect of the state if they do their duty well. Not only the present soldiers, but also those who served you in the past. We are as a Left shocked by the treatment of many soldiers and officers who are now retired. For example, the funeral of the pilot General Ryszard Olszewski, the school commander in Dęblin, and the commander of the Polish Air Force after Poland entered NATO. General Olszewski was denied burial in military aid and among pilots, because his reservations were brought by the IPN. [[What are you talking about?]] A similar situation also applies to many former soldiers and officers. This is a disgraceful, unworthy Polish state, which should take care of people who have devoted their lives to service to this country. [[Applause]] I appeal to the government to stop doing this. Stop dividing Polish soldiers into better and worse soldiers when we need everyone who wears, wears and wants to wear Polish uniforms. The Act contains profound changes in recruitment and provision training. The government wants to set up a Central Military Recruitment Center and 16 voivodship centers. This means the elimination of voivodship military staff and 86 military reinforcement commands. Crisis management issues are to be transferred to the competence of the Territorial Defence Forces. I believe that it is a mistake to adopt such a solution today. This will create chaos that threatens the defensive potential of the state. Territorial Defence will not be able to take over many crisis management tasks for the simple reason that they are not evenly deployed throughout the country. Our clear objection is the announced verification of soldiers and civilian workers serving and working in military reinforcements and voivodship military staffs. Our concern is also raised by the article. 789 announcements of another verification, this time agreements concluded by MON with pro-defence organisations. Isn't it her idea to get rid of the organization of unpleasant powers and leave only those closest to the current governing camp? [[The whole left.]] The proposed law provides for an increase in the financial effort for the defence of the State. It is worth recalling that the MON budget today is PLN 58 billion. During the reign of the current government it increased by PLN 20 billion. We do not question the need to increase the effort of the State in this regard. However, the state must not forget other social needs such as health or education. The military is very important, but its funding cannot be at the expense of health care or education. [[And free courts.]] It is therefore reasonable to ask, Minister, about the source of funding for the increase in expenditure on the army. As I said, in the last six years the military spending has increased significantly. Let us answer the question, Minister, what new defence capabilities the Polish Army has gained during this time. The truth is that no programme of modernization of the Armed Forces has yet to be completed. The most worrying is the lack of consistent construction of the new air defence system of the country. The current dramatic war also shows that this programme should have the highest priority. The way in which MON purchases are made raises doubts. For example, we buy 32 F-35 planes without technology transfer. Meanwhile, Finland and Switzerland, which have decided to purchase similar products, were able to negotiate the corresponding offset. Poland was not interested in this. That's terrible news, Minister, for the workers of the Polish armory. There is a new solution in this project - the Armed Forces Support Fund. Its operator is to be Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This will be another non-budget fund managed by BGK. BGK will issue bonds that will allow for the purchase of weapons, but which one day will have to be bought. It is very likely that in the current situation Poland has no other option, but this decision and its consequences must be clearly communicated to the public. In addition to the MON budget, there is therefore a second financial resource for the defence department, this time without a specific financial framework and seym control. Everything according to the one-man defense minister's will. We don't agree to such a system. All the money for the military must be spent transparently, especially since the proposed act in a disturbing way once again in recent years increases the powers of the Minister of Defence, while marginalizing the role of the General Staff of the Polish Army. We are fully in favour of civilian control of the army, but the minister, the civilian minister, cannot replace professional command. Unfortunately, the laws will have the opposite effect. We are afraid of arbitrary purchasing decisions made by the Minister without consulting military authorities, competent commanders and parliament. In order to increase the strength of our homeland, it is necessary to cooperate with all political forces. We're open to this kind of cooperation. However, we call on the government to put an end to pointless disputes with the European Union. Let us only make decisions that will increase the safety of our homeland, let us make them wisely and deliberately. We all have only one goal: we want Poland to be safe and Poles and Poles to fall asleep without fear that something is in danger for them and their families. [[Applause]] The assault on Ukraine shows one thing: freedom, peace and security are not given once (the bell) forever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u200	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We regard this debate as a debate on national security, not only on the bill presented. So national security is based on several pillars - on the national community, on a strong army, on stable alliances. It's a national community. Today Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens, residents show what the national community is at the moment of threat, how it works. I think that today we are all facing a heroic army in Ukraine, but we are even more facing ordinary citizens of Ukraine who defend their homeland and pass an exam from the national community. [[Applause]] The national community is not just a collaboration at a time of danger. This is the end of this devastating, long-standing political civil war in Poland. She's not here today, thank God, and thank you all for that. But it can't be like she's been gone two or three weeks. It can't be like this when the most tragic things happen, it's the only thing that should be permanent. These matters of national security should be removed from this ongoing, devastating political dispute, this political civil war. National security and the national community are inherently linked, and today we have such a partial test, because today we do not have to defend our homeland, but we have to help and the national community, the social community in Poland helps. In this debate we also need to thank - especially our countrymen, non-governmental organisations, local governments, volunteer firefighters, all officers, Polish Army, all those organizations that stand up today and help. [[Applause]] This is the first test of defending the homeland, because this is an expression of community, solidarity and responsibility. Stable alliances. Stable alliances, which are checked, must be confirmed every once in a while by good relationships, agreements that are concluded, but also by constant behavior. Today we hear that... Of course, this bill will require more money, and there is no doubt about it. If from the Polish state's budget we have to redirect the stream of money to defence - yes, we have to, and we support it - we can vote on it today. 3-4% If necessary (Applause), we are ready to support this. We are ready to revise the budget immediately if necessary. But we will also need resources for other activities. Let us unblock the funds from the National Reconstruction Programme, rebuild these funds under the alliance in which we are (Applause) in the European Union, which is a guarantee of security, because we will transfer the funds from the budget to defence, and we will transfer these funds to other necessary things related to social policy, to the economy, to infrastructure. Within the Alliance, it is very important to agree on many things. Today, this bill contains elements concerning financing, arms, army numbers. Minister, we really are able to vote on these elements today about money, the size of the army, and the structural elements in our view require two things: good preparation not to plant any anxiety in the army, its organizational structure, and consultation with allies. It was not in this introductory statement (Applause) neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister. Here we would expect either meetings of opposition clubs, opposition circles with representatives of the North Atlantic Alliance to ensure that all of this is compatible, prepared within the framework of the structure, communication and command not only of the Polish army, but of the coordination of this command with the North Atlantic Alliance. Or there is a second solution that we can implement in this Chamber: the word of honor of the Minister of National Defence, the word of honor of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, that this law is consulted with NATO, is compatible and our allies are also informed about it in this area of governance. I think that would be a very important message coming from here to the public. [[Applause]] A strong army is a well-organized army, well-armed, well-managed army. I support Mr Semoniak's request to join all the veterans from Afghanistan, Iraq, those who are in reserve, maybe as advisors, and some could return to active service. Today all hands on deck, today we all have to work together in this area. [[Applause]] A strong army is an organized army that is ready to respond to any eventuality. There's gotta be better communication, it's gotta be well-prepared and overworked. Therefore, I have a big request that when we propose amendments to take account of the fact that they are not due to any pinch, but to our experience, to the consultation that we have been conducting since we received this law. In a moment's time, Mr Paweł Bejda from the Committee on National Defence will tell you about these details. Finally, I would like to say a very important thing on behalf of my club. Patriotism, the love of our homeland - this is not recorded in the bill, this is due to our being, from where we come from, how we are raised. I think Poles after years of patriotism do not need to be taught. But to be proud of your country means to be responsible for it too. It's not just words, it's first of all actions. I ask that the political civil war should not return to Poland. For what is today: solidarity, responsibility and cooperation to last longer. Long live Poland! Let the free Ukraine win! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u202	Mr Paweł Bejda, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Together with our experts, we have been working on the Homeland Defense Act for many days. This bill changes 14 laws, we'll be working on over 800 articles. The law has over 800 pages, and only 50 pages are a justification. But ad rem. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 51 of the bill assumes that industrial companies of defence potential, the Industrial Development Agency, the Polish Development Fund, executive agencies and other state legal entities may purchase military equipment for leasing to the Armed Forces. And the question is, if the ARP and the PFR are supposed to sell weapons, whether they are. they have a concession for so-called. special rotation. How are these agencies supposed to learn what military equipment to buy? The Act does not say anything about the principles of cooperation between them and the Armory Agency or the General Staff of the Polish Army. At the same time, the technical modernisation plan is classified. And MON decisions do not apply to non-MON entities. Can agencies carry out arms trade tasks by their subsidiaries? Are the agencies obliged to apply the offset law and how is this supposed to work in practice? These questions really come up with a lot of questions. This is a powerful financial resource - at 2.5% We assumed it would be about PLN 100 billion. 3% - Yeah, we agree as a club. Polish Coalition - PSL. 3% - but not since next year, just now, right now! Because that money is needed! [[Applause]] The government demands the urgent adoption of the Homeland Defense Act, mainly because of the need to obtain more funding, and well. But if this is really the goal, instead of overturning the entire legal system on which the defence of our country is based, it is enough to amend one law now, and precisely the article. 7 Act of 25 May 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. If there is a need for rapid amendment, let us do it now, because this law has been submitted yet when there was no Russian aggression against Ukraine. Let's give it time to work this bill properly, because, as I said, it's more than 800 articles. In view of Russia's actions, we propose an increase in expenditure, 3% already. Now, as I said, let's proceed because this money is needed by our army against Russia's aggression against Ukraine. However, our doubts are about how this additional money will be spent, because at 3% it will be well over PLN 100 billion. Therefore, we will make an amendment so that at least 50% of the money spent on funds in our army comes from and is destined for the Polish arms industry. Because the Polish arms industry is also the basis of the Polish economy. The whole of Europe is about to buy weapons, also in the Polish arms industry (The Bell). Let us give ourselves the chance that Poland will also be able to develop economically. Let's build our national community. To sum up, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition is absolutely in favour of further proceding this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u204	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Confederation welcomes the fact that, after more than 6 years of rule of law and justice, there was finally a proposal to reform the legislation governing defence organisation in Poland. The Confederation is in favour of the Polish army being strong, well stocked, well trained to have organized exercises not according to the scenario, but those that are a real test of the logistics and defence capabilities of the Polish army to have good cybersecurity systems, good intelligence, good counterintelligence and good cooperation with allies. We estimate that the Prime Minister is confusing with his statements. A statement from a few for the German press about building Euroarmy is a conquer in the European Union, where most of the Member States are our allies in NATO, the narrative of those who do not want cooperation within NATO and want cooperation within an alternative structure. We do not need, when the Minister presented this bill, to bring about such confusion by the Prime Minister. It is also astonishing to hear from the president Jarosław Kaczyński here that Poland will be seeking modern weapons with the exception of nuclear weapons. Let us remind you that the Deputy Minister of National Defence, and now the Polish Ambassador to NATO in Brussels, Mr Tomasz Szatkowski, on 5 December 2015, said in an interview for Polsatu that on the issue of Poland's participation in NATO-Nuclear Sharing programme, concrete steps are currently under consideration. However, strengthening nuclear deterrents for defence against war is necessary. End of quote. This statement clearly indicates that it was an agenda of the Polish state. What's changed, Minister? What's changed, Mr. President? What's changed, Prime Minister? Maybe we won't be involved, as the Confederation calls for, in the NATO Nuclear Sharing program. But are we? You want us to tell you what we don't get and what we don't want? It's not our job. Our role is to present what we want and fight for it. The current context should probably make it easier for us to gain access to the most advanced NATO-based systems and use them by the Polish army in good cooperation. As far as the provisions are concerned, we support ordering the rules, we support the increase in army numbers, we support the increase in spending. A great deal of confusion and inconsistencies in this law are required to be refined. We'll be working on it on the committee. We will also make amendments to the law and to the constitution governing the right of access to weapons, which at the moment is illegally limited to Poles. And as it ends, we see in Ukraine right now. A trained citizen is a good soldier. He's a good reservist. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u206	Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u207	Ladies and gentlemen! Increasing the army's numbers, increasing the army's budget is, of course, a very good direction. The direction in which we should go, the direction which the Confederation has demanded since the beginning of its existence, and the parties which co-create the Confederation, many years earlier. I would like to remind you that Ukraine has disposed of nuclear weapons for guaranteeing territorial integrity, among others. on the part of the Russian Federation, within the framework of the Budapest Memorandum. We can see how much such guarantees and contracts are worth. We knew that, I hope, earlier in history. Alliances and agreements are of course important, but ultimately the argument of force is the most important. A safe country is a country with military power. That's what we've been paying attention to for years, according to the maxim: you want peace, get ready for war. That is why I believe that this law, although it is going in the right direction, is insufficient. I believe that a much larger part of the budget should be transferred to the army. I hope that's where it's going. I also note that the military is not everything. That is why we are making an amendment to this law which would guarantee access to weapons, the right of all adults, normal citizens to hold weapons. We can see now that such a need can happen. Ukrainians are now getting spontaneous weapons. The question is, if the Ukrainians hadn't had it before, if millions of Ukrainians hadn't had it before, wouldn't they have been familiar with it, trained at all, the need for use would have happened. It is much harder to attack a country with a few million armed citizens. It is troubling that this law, drawn up by the same government, which with known consequences had just introduced a law on such an important issue, containing half a thousand pages, a law that substantially changed the organisation of the state in the field of government, creating a budget outside the budget, was so late revealed in its content to the Members in the 12th, even though the work had lasted for years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we will support further work, participate in it, and watch closely that the bill actually strengthens our defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u209	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The defense of the homeland is a need that flows deeply from the heart of every Polish woman and every Pole. It's a call that's engraved in the heart of every citizen, but it's also coming from the constitution. What we do, financial resources, personal contributions, is also fulfilling the will of our ancestors, who have spilled blood for centuries, fighting for the independence of our homeland. And they deeply believed that their sacrifice was not made for nothing. Therefore, today there can be no doubt that the decisions we make are thoughtful, reasonable and effective decisions. That must be the bill. The project presented by the government is no different in substance from the one presented in autumn. There's a lot of good things about it. But since then, the world has changed dramatically. We are witnessing Russia's criminal aggression against Ukraine, which is taking place at our borders. From these events, it is clear to us that the modernisation of the army must take on pace, the expenditure on defence must be effective. We need to depoliticize and improve the defence industry. Poland 2050 will support these actions, especially those that will allow for support now. It is an urgent increase in capacity, especially in the field of anti-aircraft and missile defence. The programmes must, however, become priorities. But we also have a number of questions. Firstly, does the law provide the right and effective basis for financing defence tasks? The government has proposed non-budget financing, including the creation of a special fund and leasing. We need to ask ourselves whether such a financing model allows us to maintain security, stability and planning in the decade's horizons. If we were in a situation similar to Ukraine, would these mechanisms not cause additional problems? Finally, is the level of funding proposed for GDP in the Act appropriate due to today's risks? Only now do we hear reflections on 3%, but it must certainly increase Parliament's role in controlling all these expenditures. This can't be kept from Parliament. Secondly, have the mechanisms for recruiting candidates for service, appointments, regulating the allowance been adapted to the challenges facing us? Today, the morale of the army is taking on importance. Psychological and mental qualifications. We want our army to meet the highest requirements in this respect. We need the right people. Therefore, very clear quality, psychological and promotional requirements are important. The military must be free from discretion, cognition and politics. This also applies to officers who are sitting at home today, and their competences for our defence are priceless, also out of respect for those citizens who will serve the general good. This law must provide for this and this requires improvement in the bill. Thirdly, are the changes proposed in the military administration good or bad changes? There are very serious doubts, Minister, in this respect. And finally, something the bill won't do. I don't want to name anyone here, I don't want to call anyone to the board, but it's time to stop sharing Poles and Poles with better and worse patriots. This has to stop. The example of Ukraine shows that in terms of defence we must be like one fist, without divisions. The law itself is very broad and covers almost all defence issues. Poles expect to work beyond divisions today, so the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will make amendments that improve the rules. And in the name of the right of the state, Minister, we appeal not to treat it as a criticism. It's just that this bill has to be the best we can do. Today, in the face of the aggressive behaviour of the criminal regime in Moscow, in the face of the mobilization of Poles and Poles to help the Ukrainians murdered by Russia, I thank you very much for this generous heart from the citizens. What citizens today show builds a sense of true national pride. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I call on the High House to work efficiently and honestly on this project. I firmly believe that the work formula will correspond to the importance and importance of this issue. Thanks to this, a project will emerge from your House, which will be the basis for a rapid and dynamic increase in the quality of our country's Armed Forces. Long live Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u210	Mr Michał Drink, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the first words, first of all, I would like to pay tribute to the heroic population, the Ukrainian society, which is struggling with the extremely violent aggression of Russia Putin, who is today de facto raping Ukraine's freedom. By paying a huge price of blood, showing extraordinary courage, stopping tanks and heavy Russian equipment, they fight for the fulfillment of dreams, dreams that they showed to the whole world. It is about aspirations that have shown the whole world eight years ago, about the dream of joining the family of Western countries, democratic countries, countries where freedom is valued and respected. That is why today they deserve their homage and respect for their heroic attitude. I would also like to pay a huge homage on behalf of my political environment to all NGOs, the Polish Army, all involved today in volunteering and supporting our neighbours from Ukraine at this difficult time. The only thing we can say is to bow down and of course to help, to call for help, but also to express great respect for all those who do not forget solidarity at this difficult time, especially as today we are doing exactly what we were hoping for as Poland in 1939. So that you deserve a great deal of respect for that. At this difficult moment Poles expect from us wisdom, maturity, unity, but also modernization and support of our army. And in this respect, in terms of security, as has happened in the situation of a conflict at the Belarusian border, the government side can count on my political environment to be supported. The agreement will support this draft law, will also push for this process of modernization of the Polish army to accelerate. We will appeal to increase the army's spending, but to spend it wisely, consistently and to invest this money, not just to talk about it. But it's not just the laws that can guarantee security today. I was talking about a dream. We are already realizing this dream: we are in the family of Western countries, in the family of democratic countries. Let's respect it and appreciate it. Family can be difficult, but especially we know the price of being on the other side. Because today there are only two roads, the way of the West, i.e. the way of freedom and life, and the second - East, captivity and death. So that we should appreciate what we have and take care of our relationship with our family, even though it can be difficult sometimes. The security guarantee is definitely the North Atlantic Alliance. I'm gonna move on to the project. We have a specific question: Are there assurances in this project, provisions that guarantee the maintenance of infrastructure or the creation of infrastructure for the admission of American troops, but not rotating ones, but those that have heavy equipment? This need is highlighted by battlefield analysts, battlefield analysts. The point is that we need such assurance from our ally, but in order to achieve this, we need to be prepared from the financial and infrastructure side. The second issue that analysts raise in the context of the events in Ukraine is the importance of anti-aircraft defence. They point to this issue as the Achilles' heel of the Polish army. We will also watch and cheer for the government to increase its efforts in anti-aircraft defense, training and, of course, better, modernized equipment. Another domain of modern battlefield, of course, is the information domain. Here, too, we will appeal, because in this modern battlefield, the new battlefield is important for cyber-military reinforcement. It is clear that if it were not for information support, cooperation and development of new types of troops, the situation of Ukraine would be much more difficult. The agreement, my political environment supports and will support this bill. We will expect to accelerate the modernisation of the Polish army, we will pay attention to our concern for our ally, military relations, but also to our concern for our relations with the European Union. And we appeal for one thing: let us not be afraid of dialogue, let us be wise and mature and prove to everyone, but also to ourselves, Poles and our allies that we have grown up and have grown to the historic moment at which we have just arrived. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u212	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy in relation to the regulations contained in the draft Homeland Defense Act. First of all, we would like to point out that in the present difficult geopolitical situation Polish armed forces need immediate reinforcement. Russia's ongoing aggression against Ukraine proves that, contrary to Francis Fukuyama's claims, history has not ended, and the Roman maxim, which has already fallen here today: if you want peace, prepare for war, is still valid. We agree with the basic objective of the law, which is not only to organise the current defence legislation, to increase the financing of armed forces and to regulate the reserve service, but also to adapt existing solutions to the realities of the 21st century. An example may be to enable disabled persons to serve in cybersecurity-related positions or to obtain military equipment in the form of leasing. An extremely important issue is the modernization of the Polish army by acquiring modern weapons systems and the development and implementation of own innovative solutions. The process of modernising the Polish army requires significant financial resources, so we support the increased funding of the armed forces proposed in the project under consideration by increasing defence expenditure to 2.5% and - as we heard in the amendment - up to 3% in the next budget. Here we should recall the words of Józef Piłsudski, who said that independence is not only a valuable but also a very expensive good. At the same time, it is clear that the modernization of equipment alone will not significantly increase our safety without properly trained and experienced soldiers, which is why we fully approve of solutions both encouraging experienced soldiers to remain in service and motivating young people to join the army. In this context, the emerging system of active and passive reserves and the introduction of a voluntary basic military service that will allow for specialist military training should also be commended. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the solutions contained in the presented project, which in our opinion require correction. Resignation from the Parliamentary Committee on State Defence when the Minister of Defence introduces a national programme for the development of armed forces is an unjustified and less transparent action, so we propose leaving the solutions to date. Furthermore, we would like to point out that the introduction of the possibility of expulsion of soldiers from the service in connection with the conduct that violates the soldier's dignity and honor prior to the final judgment in this case is a violation of the basic constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, so that such a solution does not deserve approval. In conclusion, I would like to add that a very good complement to the Homeland Defense Act would be prepared by Mr Kukiz15 on a project on rational access to arms and ammunition. High Izbo, disarming the Poles began the assassins. The communists made sure that the Poles were the most disarmed nation in the European Union, or actually throughout Europe. What is happening in Ukraine at the moment is a clear sign that Poles need to know how to operate weapons, and they need to have these weapons in their homes. As near Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy, we support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u214	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems like a good idea to consolidate all 14 laws into one. Let us hope that this will bring more order and result in faster modernization and faster training of our army. On the other hand, as Members of the opposition, we received the final version of this project only on Monday, when the printing number was given to it - but we were hoping for a little more information from you during this debate. Mr Kaczyński spoke for a very long time, Minister Błaszczak spoke for a very long time, Mr Jach spoke for a very long time, while the information on the bill was very little. I think there has been nothing - apart from the amendments, of course, which make sense - about which we could no longer read or hear in the media reports. Mr. Chairman Jach has even shown what this bill looks like. I think we all know what 500 pages of the bill looks like. Rather, we would like to know what the consequences of its implementation will be, what are the objectives of this law, what changes we will see when it comes into force. We are counting on the Polish army to arm itself. We are in favour of increasing GDP from the army budget, because all the other cases, when we are threatened, go sideways. It is clear that an increase in army spending is needed at such a time. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we need to clean up the military. I understand that working on this bill required months of consultation. It is a pity that we were not invited to any of these consultations as an opposition. I think that we have already been able to discuss a number of issues that we would no longer be discussing in the course of this work. I'm counting on hard work on the committee. I encourage us not to rush into this bill, because at this point, it really doesn't change anything. It's gonna be a bill for years, so let's let the experts, so that the various military organizations, too, have time to comment on it. Maybe they can tell us what can be improved in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, let us deepen our alliances, strengthen our relations with allies, but what is most important is the modernisation and strength of our Polish army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u216	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński said: we must have a very strong army. He admitted that we haven't got a strong army yet. What is the state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland after 7 years of PiS rule? Firstly, the key area of state security, so air defense, remained unchanged. The purchase of two Patriot batteries changes this to a small extent. Secondly, the main force of impact of the Armed Forces is the Land Forces, including the Rocket Forces and the Artillery. Their potential has not been increased, and the purchase of one HIMARS division with 30 rockets is, to put it mildly, an insufficient arsenal of deterrent. Thirdly, instead of modern 50 helicopters we have four Black Hawk helicopters and four more ordered, as well as four AW101 helicopters. After seven years, the army still hasn't received the strike helicopters. For this, he must pay 80 million PLN of penalty for breaking the agreement with Airbus. Fourthly, the Armoured Programme launched in 2013 virtually does not exist. Within 7 years, the PiS government has six times changed the concept of acquiring a new tank. Fifthly, after 7 years of actually blocking the development of Polish drone technology, we bought Turkish drones for 1 billion PLN, informing that Polish plants do not have such capabilities. Sixthly, for 7 years, the concept of submarine acquisition has been changed four times, which ultimately led to the loss of the ability of our submarines to perform their tasks. Plans to deliver 3 Swordships in 2034 are not satisfactory. Seventhly, over the last 7 years approximately PLN 100 billion have been allocated to technical modernisation of the Armed Forces. With this huge burden on the Polish taxpayer, no new industrial capacity of state arms plants was created. Moreover, the situation of many establishments has worsened, and some are even threatened with liquidation. After eight, the expenditure on arms in recent years is the vast majority of the advance on foreign equipment that we will receive in the distant future. Minister! You can't shoot down a sparker or even a Mi-8. After these seven years, do we have reason to trust that you can do it now? We're ready to help. Can you take responsibility for the security of Poland, time will show. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u218	Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, also PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Homeland Defense Act is intended to ensure the safety of Poland, but security has many aspects, not only military ones. There's economic, social, health security. So-called. The excess deaths of Poles already amounted to more than 100,000. Only in 2020, without war, therefore, we need to increase expenditure on health care quickly and not just on the military. Our security is inextricably linked to membership in the European Union and NATO. For the past six years, PiS has been destroying our position in the European Union. Until recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki formed alliances with Putin's supporters Marine Le Pen and Orban. It is good that after Russia's aggression against Ukraine, PiS came to his senses. For Poland to be a safe homeland for its citizens, it must be law-abiding. As urgent as the adoption of the Act on the Defense of the Homeland is the adoption of a law that restores Poland to the rule of law, i.e. a law that will make order with the neo-KRS and with the Disciplinar Chamber. [[The voice from the room: She's great. Thanks.]] The wild stubbornness of Minister Ziobra not to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber, which even President Kaczyński wants to liquidate, costs us more than EUR 120 million and every day grows by EUR 1 million, but also - and most importantly - is holding back PLN 770 billion of EU funds for 2021-2027. Instead of losing money because of the lack of the rule of law, it can be used for military or health. Poland has not yet died as long as there is a Polish Socialist Party that will take care of it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]] [[Stalin would be proud, Aska.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u220	Oh, my God. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u221	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, the fact that the Ukrainian army is fighting so bravely against the invader results, among others. because it's an army of citizens, people who are aware of who they're fighting and what they're fighting for. It consists of persons of different property status and having different functions. It creates her strength and her morale. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Homeland Defense Act will allow parliamentarians and councillors of different levels to serve in the active reserve as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the spirit of this unity, which is a requirement of the moment... [[Of course.]] ...we propose a reinforcement package not to slow down work, but only to make it more rational, and to make the homeland stronger. I would like to draw attention to one of the elements of this reinforcement package, i.e. action already, because the war is already going on. This is a matter of civil protection. What today's war shows is that the border between the entire military and civilian sphere, between war and peace, is blurring. If we do not include the entire civil segment in the defence system, the same solution proposed in the Homeland Defense Act will not be sufficient. Therefore, please - and I also hope that this committee meeting will prove that the ruling majority understands (the bell) the community of interests - to include our reinforcement package.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u225	That's very much what you and the ladies of the PiS are asking for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have all declared that we want to work on this law, because from the point of view of security of the country, Poles and Poles this law is very important. The government has been working since November because in November the first printing appeared. We got the print on Monday, it appeared on the sejm pages. Today we have the first amendments. The whole opposition also says that they've made some adjustments. Minister, will you actually give us time to talk about them, their pros, their cons, when we're sitting in this room in committee? So we don't have another bill that we're gonna change quickly. And this one is very important because it talks about the safety of Poles. That is why, Minister, Prime Minister, who is not here - you have spoken of unity, unfortunately some of you have come out - we want to work on this bill (the bell) and we want to make amendments to all clubs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u229	...have been considered and duly taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u230	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There were words from this speaker today about communion, responsibility. So it's a specific question. The draft of this law refers to the liquidation of voivodship military staff and voivodship supplementary commands. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it better to say about reorganisation? Liquidation is a waste of time, these are people who could probably serve those tasks we're talking about. I think we're going to lose a lot of time, a lot of valuable people and a lot of money, and today we have to look at all these elements with great attention. That's why, Minister, maybe it's worth reorganizing, complementing these structures, not starting with liquidation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u233	It's a good thing that for once we start doing something not for five to twelve, not when it's too late, and yet praise. But we're talking about expanding our defense potential. So far, we're reducing it, and we're reducing it by pushing soldiers out of the service because of their attitude toward vaccination. General Rajmund Andrzejczak is still in the trenches of the past war with COVID. I'm calling for a change of heart. In the discussion, it is worrying to me that we declare that we do not want to have nuclear weapons, in a situation where Ukraine finds out that you want to have peace, have nuclear weapons. In this discussion, it is also very worrying that there is again a desire to finance something from the deficit. Just as pacifism is bankrupt in front of our eyes, this system of governance that you are trying to cultivate is bankrupt in Poland - bribing voters for their own money, spending money that you do not have. It can't be sovereign if it's in debt. We've got a trillion and a half in debt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have to do this instead of doing something, instead of these pointless social benefits, not apart from them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u234	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u235	Dear Minister, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We spent over 330 grand. Kart Pole, which confirms his membership of the Polish people, does not mean that he has citizenship. Grandkids and grandchildren, sons and daughters of repatriates who feel like Poles, scattered around the world, must be given the opportunity to fight for the Republic. In the course of further work on this law, it is necessary to extend the catalogue of persons who can participate in the mobilisation in the event of war. The example of Ukraine causes us to lean on this problem. Hence I ask: Will the government consider introducing a voluntary application to defend the country by people who have the Polish Charter and optional registration by persons who have a permanent residence permit in the Polish Republic? In the event of the threat of Poland, we must not forget about 0.5 million people willing to shed blood for Poland - the house of their ancestors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u236	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was very interested in the question you raised about the elimination of the glass ceiling, which is the question, in your opinion, that soldiers should have easier access to promotions. It's mostly about the private corps and the Petty Officers. I do not hide that this was the subject of many of my interpellations and enquiries to the Ministry of National Defence. That is why I am very pleased that this issue has been raised. But I want to ask you the details of how it's gonna look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u238	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS. There isn't? Mr... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Well, maybe on the phone, not necessarily at the time... [[I'm coming.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u239	Excuse me. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have a simple question. This bill, as far as I know, was prepared before the conflict broke out across our eastern border before Putin invaded Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to ask: are you preparing - I am addressing the rulers - laws that will, in a real way now and here, help defend our homeland and also help the heroicly fighting people of Ukraine? If so, I wanted to be more specific, for example. You're planning to work really hard to get your bulletproof vests and ballistic helmets out of our eastern border, or they'll still be so-called. goods of type S. Are you also planning any changes, improvements in the arms and ammunition bill in the Republic of Poland? We look forward to real programs that will help today and here (The Bell) defend Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u240	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Today, it is clear with great clarity how important it was for the government of Law and Justice to change its defence policy six years ago. It's part of it, among other things. Dislocation of military units from the east to the center and west, as well as their liquidation, were stopped. New military structures were created, 18. The Division Mechanized in Siedlce, recreated the anti-tank regiment in Suwałki, created a logistics regiment in Łomża, a whole range of other activities that are so important and necessary today. The Minister and the Prime Minister are well aware of these issues, but I would like to ask that, under this law, in the first place, we somehow strengthen our defence forces in the Suwałski Pass, because this threat is huge and appears in the first place. The second case in the context of this law does not concern it directly. I would ask you to consider (the bell) changes or adjustments of the network of express roads in the Podlaskie voivodship, so that no one will ever be tempted to create a corridor in the perspective of Russia - Russia or today Belarus - Russia - and use these roads for the transfer of military equipment from Russia or Belarus to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u242	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this very difficult time of security deterioration, our society is united in sacrificial help to our Ukrainian neighbours, but at the same time it has great expectations for us - that we, parliamentarians, representatives of the government at this difficult moment will be able to take care of the security of our country, we will be able to increase Poland's resilience to this aggression, to potential aggression. It is not enough to transpose legislation from 14 laws into a single act. We need a package to strengthen the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] This package must include all that our forces lack, all that we can see after the Ukrainian War is all that we should have. You can't wait until July, you can't wait a year or two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, in the coming days, we must adopt a package on strengthening the Armed Forces. That's what our safety requires. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u244	Thank you. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister of National Defence! Yesterday in Bialystok, as we are here in the hall, from the right to the left, apart from the Confederation, unfortunately, we performed together, over the divisions at the press conference near Podlaskie Border Guard. Previously we visited Polish-Ukrainian and Polish-Belarusian borders. Messengers and Members spoke at a time when there was a war going on with our Ukrainian neighbours, and everyone, I say: we all solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We all know that the Law on the Defence of the Homeland of 1967 must be amended, updated to the reality of the current aggressive actions of the Russian Federation - full agreement, Minister - but let us respect one another, Minister of National Defence, and in consensus, let us respect this Act in the Committee on National Defence, also taking into account the substantive amendments of the opposition, which I wish for Poles and Poles (the Bell) for improving the security of our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u247	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The war in Ukraine has shown the whole world that there are different types of weapons, but only two are most effective. The first is an effective international alliance, and the second is a determined nation of its own. The war in Ukraine has shown one more truth: it is not worth applying three different policies to one country, and so it has been. In particular, the West has applied to Russia... He applied one policy to Putin, the other to the oligarchs, and the third to the Russian people, the ordinary Russians. Thirdly, it is worth drawing conclusions. The situation would be different today if helicopters were produced at Łódź airfields. We wouldn't have to think about safety. Unfortunately, we have to think about the penalties for breaking the contract. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u248	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Law and Justice. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a matter more important to Poles than anything else, there is a case that has no price. This is a matter of freedom. There are no such circumstances, reasons, there are no institutions that would force Poles to depend, to bend their necks. And today, when the enemy stands at the borders of the Republic of Poland, unfortunately, the words of Józef Piłsudski are still valid: that we have divided into several types of Poles, we speak one Polish language, and even Polish words we understand differently. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister, to my colleagues from the opposition: In the face of the threat of Polish independence, in the face of the threat of Polish sovereignty, when the Homeland Defense Act is so much needed, we are able to respect each other, are we at least able to try to understand each other? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u250	Thank you. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rule that has been in force for centuries in the world is: an army has either its own or someone else's. Therefore, it must be a priority to start new procurements for equipment immediately, not to complete tenders, as has been the case in the past. Therefore, the priority must be training new officers, not cleaning among generals, colonels or majors of the Polish Army. [[Applause]] Therefore, the priority must be professional army management, not experiments in this army. These are the fundamental differences we are talking about. [[Applause]] The question to the Minister is: Do you, Minister, accept these priorities? These are today's priorities that should bring us all together here in this room. Every Polish heart beats today on the side of the security of the Republic. Long live Poland! Long live Ukraine! Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u252	Thank you. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Behind our eastern border is the war that was caused by an aggressor by Vladimir Putin. But this war shows us a few basic things we need to remember. First of all, the threat from the east is still valid. That's why we need a strong, large and very modern army. That's why it's good that the Homeland Defense Act is being processed at this point, because we need such a strong army. But at the same time, we must remember that allies support the strong, support those who can defend themselves. That's why we have to take care of our army, increase spending. At the same time, this war shows how important national identity is. It shows how important patriotism is. Ukraine is fighting the whole nation at this point. We must fight for our identity. We have a lot of reasons to be proud of our homeland. So that a potential aggressor fights not only the army, but against the whole nation (the Bell) so that he sees a potential enemy around every corner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u254	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In an emergency, all Poles unite. We, too, in Parliament today declare hard work on the draft Homeland Defense Act, but the truth is that we have to listen. Those who rule listen to the opposition, the opposition listen to those who rule. I'd like to hear a declaration from the Minister. The MON budget is huge - 57 billion this year. But we also know that not all of this money turns into an in-kind equivalent. A large part, because 28 billion are advances, perhaps today it is already more than 30 billion. Would you agree to such an amendment (the bell) which limits the possibility of pre-financing to at least 1/3 of the budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u256	Thank you. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! When discussing the Homeland Defense Act, a law that is important for, I think, present and future generations, for our security, it is worth paying attention to another element that this law does not take into account, and I think, Minister, that we should also think about it. This is the arms and ammunition bill. Of course, this is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, but the 1999 law on arms and ammunition today in this situation we are in is a bit archaic. She, especially if the art works. 15, those people who already have guns today, they're very... It is the cause of many, many completely unnecessary burdens. Although the entire hunter community - I believe that in Poland it should be at least two or three times enlarged - which is used in a responsible manner with weapons, it should be able to (the bell) also to operate more widely. So I think that's something to think about on this occasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u258	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill we are discussing today was prepared in peace times and programmed so that the individual elements also enter in peacetime. Meanwhile, we have a war, and as often as the generals are preparing for a war that is already behind them, we have this unique situation in which we are able to prepare for a war that is already under way. That is why I believe that the reinforcement package that we are all talking about here today is really necessary. If we do not quickly answer all these questions and prepare ourselves for a possible attack that may occur before the various elements of this law enter into force, then we will really be at exactly the same moment as today. My question is simple: When can we expect serious information and debate at the meeting of the National Defence Committee (The Bell) on the reinforcement package in the near future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard from Mrs Senyszyn's mouth vile words that ironized the Polish anthem. [[Applause]] But in that case I would like to appeal - and this is not a malicious thing - that the Polish parliamentarians in this law should have the opportunity to join the army, have the opportunity to fulfil their duties, as it would also be for the citizen, to become a Polish soldier. Madam, I would like to see you in a Polish uniform then, not in a Soviet uniform, so that you can show, set an example that you were serious about these words, not just ironising them. [[Applause]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. This is where we talk about the so-called. a reinforcement package proposed by the Civic Platform. I do not know how to refer to this, because during all the years that I have had the opportunity to sit in the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, I could say that after what you said, after what you did during the exercise of power, the best strengthening package should be (the bell) that we should democratically remove you from sitting in this House. [[Applause]] [[Quiet. Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u262	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition. [[Your Marshal...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In what way, Commissioner, in what way? [[Corrections.]] Mr... Member, in what way? [[Voice from the room: The name was.]] Madame, you have insulted me, too. Step out of the podium, please. Madame, I kindly ask you to step out of the podium. We're at the question stage. Please, step down from the podium. Madam, will you step down from the podium, or do you want me to run the mode... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... [[Voice from the room: It was mentioned by name.]] I would like to point out that you are interfering with the House's deliberations. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u263	Today, every citizen asks himself whether thanks to this law Poland will be safer from tomorrow or from the date on which this law enters into force. The problem is, I don't think so. Minister! I propose that we take into account the new structure of the command and command system of the army, which you have been announcing for five years, when working on State security. Secondly, it is important that we take into account, as part of such a support package, first of all, the modernisation of equipment that already exists in armed forces resources, and today, as you can see in Ukraine, it is working well, and also in order not to establish such a paradigm that all such orders need to be addressed to the PGZ, which is expensive, inefficient and has an increasingly smaller technological capacity. Another thing. The purchasing fund should be under the control of the representatives of the Sejm. You want a 300-thousand army, think about it (the bell) to synchronize all uniform units that today have weapons in Poland and can, just like the police, Border Guard, together with the army defend our security. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u264	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that today we are discussing this high-level law on defence of our homeland, which we are adopting 7 days after Russia's start of aggression against Ukraine and a few days after the great geopolitical turn in the European Union has taken place. It is the European Union that speaks with a Polish voice today. Berlin and Brussels have finally withdrawn from this pro-Russian policy... [[What about Hungary?]] ...against which the Law and Justice were observed, he observed the dead. Lech Kaczyński. Billions of euros flowed to Putin just on the army that is killing Ukrainians today. And today, in a trans-political agreement, let us adopt this resolution, let us adopt this law. [[Sit down.]] I call on the opposition here to reach a suprapolitical agreement that since 1 January 2023 we no longer import Russian gas... [[Coal.]] ...coal or oil. [[The voice from the room: Then get it done.]] You were defending Russian natural gas a few weeks ago. It's a good thing you guys are pulling out of this today. Let us all accept this bill, 460 Members. [[Voice from the room: When do you want to leave the Union?]] No one has the right to break out, no voice of opposition, no voice of restraint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Geneva Conventions protect the people who spontaneously grab their weapons to resist the invasion and did not have time to organize themselves into regular armed forces if they openly carry weapons and observe war laws and customs - that is, the Geneva Convention. The citizen therefore has the right to decide for himself and to take arms in an emergency situation. Today, the number of weapons held, including hunting weapons, is estimated to be 587,000. Weapons holders have a lot of ammo, a lot of tactical equipment. This equipment is often at a very high level. It is a great human potential and huge material facilities of volunteers of legal arms owners for the purpose of defending Poland and protecting its citizens. They don't have what? They do not have the ability to purchase personal protective equipment such as bulletproof vests, shrapnel, ballistic plates, i.e. all those measures that meet police standards Or military standards. This is very important today. And I have a question: Is the government considering changing the rules in order to enable the acquisition of personal protective equipment indicated by civilians or non-license entities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u268	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask what will be the role of the Territorial Defence Army in the defence system of the country, because the decision to set up WOT was one of the most important issues that strengthened Poland's defence. We see this especially today when the Territorial Defence Army of Ukraine, trained among others. by Polish specialists, they are very effective against the Russian aggressor. And the attitude towards WOT, to the Territorial Defence Army, is such a litmus paper for the opposition when it comes to the defence of Poland. I'd like to remind you of the disdain you made about WOT. You said it was a private Macierevich army. Today, you should acknowledge that the decision to set up the WOTs and to develop the armed forces sector was extremely forward-looking and important. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u270	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u271	So today, when you are attacking this bill because there are criticisms of this bill, then consider whether you have a moral right to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u272	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think there is no doubt in the Chamber that in the area of security of Poland and Poles the building of defence capabilities is part of a long-term strategy, which is beyond the political divisions, and that the bill under review as a result of constructive work by Members and the Minister responsible will be effectively corrected. Question: "Do we, according to the law, when we double the army's personal condition, raise wages, purchase equipment such as combat aircraft, anti-aircraft, anti-missile systems, tanks, rocket launchers, helicopters, target increase in defence expenditure to 3%?" GDP is enough, or should we face a real threat from an aggressor - the Russian Federation, like Turkey or Israel, leading to an increase of up to 5% GDP? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The instruments we are talking about here, the support of the Polish Army in the form of appropriate weapons, are very important and very important. On the other hand, as the situation in Ukraine shows today, reserves are important. In recent years, decades, when it comes to past governments, these reserves have not been trained. More than that, there wasn't even a list of reservists. More, we do not even know whether these possible reserveists are in the United States, Australia, New Zealand or in Poland. Many students have not received military books and it is not known whether they will be called at all. This is the legacy of past governments, gentlemen. I have a question, Minister: What time do we need to make up for it so we know how many reservists we have, what we need them for, and when can we call them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The importance of reserves - both technical reserves and staff reserves - was mentioned by my previous speaker. I just wanted to ask you about the personnel reserves that could be a strategic drain for the army. Will they be trained in any other way than directly in the army or in the service of voluntary staff reserves, so that in the short term they can be trained or trained in other changing equipment so that they can power the army in the future in case of danger? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u279	High Seym! We remember when we changed the law in 1990, we were left with something anachronistic and long-lasting, which was called civil defense. Practically the first systemic approach to this change took place in 2007 when the Crisis Management Act was adopted on 26 April. On the other hand, this law fills a very important gap with regard to the involvement of non-governmental, defence, pro-defense organisations, as well as the whole civil and civil sectors for cooperation with the Armed Forces, and I think that this is a fundamental complement to the whole system, where we will have modern defences for civil engagement as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u280	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, maybe it's unclear. I said this by presenting the position of the Law and Justice Club, but I would like to say that since 1989 - perhaps that later - subsequent governments planned, tried to make one military code, war code, one package or one legal act that would sanction it, which would ensure the correctness that would give the legal environment the best possible development of the Armed Forces. And now we're on the eve of this. I hope that your declarations, that this will be processed really in a very efficient manner and for everyone, will be kept. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question (the bell) as to whether we are able to conduct this procedure without going into any such unnecessary distractions, details. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a chance that we will have great legal solutions for our external security. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u282	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of National Defence, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, thank you very much for all the questions, comments, opinions that you have tabled. This is actually a very important bill. This is a law that will build the foundation for the development of the Polish Armed Forces, so this is a legal act whose implementation will guarantee the security of our homeland. As for the details you asked about, I will remind those who may not remember that the contracts we have concluded over the years bear fruit that even this year the first Patriot battery will be implemented in terms of equipment of the Polish Army. One of the Members asked for advance payments. That's how the weapons buy system is built: we order weapons, it's not available immediately to order weapons, you have to pay an advance. It seemed obvious to me. I can see that not for everyone, so I'm politely informing you. In addition to the patriots we also bought hymars, F-35, black hawks, AW101, products of the Polish armory industry, armatohaubica Krab, self-propelled mortar Cancer, arrow rifles, many ammunition. Now we are finalizing the agreement on buying 250 Abrams tanks for the Polish Army. So these are the results of our actions. The Polish army has increased in number over the years. But it's not enough, it's not enough to face real threats. Behind our eastern border is war, so we have presented a bill which strengthens the financial mechanism, which will allow us to achieve in a short time that the Polish Army is more numerous and that it is equipped with modern equipment. There were some questions about access to weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a different bill, it's not that bill. We cannot regulate everything in one piece of legislation. So I am asking you not to extend and, as you know, a very wide range, which includes this law. Please also bear in mind that by introducing new forms of military service, we are promoting exercises, disseminating skills, and also promoting the attitude of defence of our homeland. Indeed, we are focused on investing in the east, east of the Vistula. This is where we reconstruct military units, expand military units. This financial mechanism will allow us, above all, to ensure the security of the eastern part of our country for obvious reasons. The point is that the eastern part of our country is most threatened by this imperial politics of Putin Russia. We're prepared to accept allies. There are American troops present. On 15 August 2020 we signed an agreement on cooperation with the United States, which provides for the creation of conditions for us to be able to adopt strengthening in the form of allied troops. One of the questions was whether we agreed on this project with allies. Ladies and gentlemen, interoperability is not about agreeing on draft laws. Interoperability is that allies exercise together and that they are equipped with weapons, equipment that is compatible. And that's what we do. So that's what interoperability is all about. And our ally's credibility is that we spend a significant part of our defence budget. And we're increasing that part. Thank you very much for your questions about universal defence. The active reserve is a new formula taken from the United States. We are further developing the Territorial Defence Army - there were many questions here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think none of us have any doubt that the Territorial Defence Army has proven itself perfectly. They're fantastic people. They combine their professional activity with the service of Poland. Of course, we also encourage all those who are in the Territorial Defence Forces, if they wish, to join the operational forces. But there's a group of people who only serve at WOT, and that's what we're really happy about, and thank you very much for that. I also want to talk about civic education. So they're uniform classes, they're Academic Legion. It is also the presence of the Polish Army in social life, often underestimated or criticized. But the fact that Polish Army equipment is available, that anyone can come to a picnic, talk to soldiers, it is also a form of recruitment, encouragement to join the Polish Army. And maybe another topic: retired generals in the media. They do comment on the media, but they've moved into political positions. We would expect them not to criticize like politicians, but to present their opinions. And if they move to political positions, you could ask what they did when they were in the Polish Army and what they didn't do. This list is longer, but, ladies and gentlemen, I will not focus on these matters. Once again, thank you very much for all your assessments and I hope that this law will be adopted unanimously by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u284	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government bill on the defence of the Homeland, contained in print No. 2052, to the National Defence Committee for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 58 hours 16 min 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u285	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask all of you to take your seats. We'll proceed with the quorum check in a moment. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm the presence of the Sejm. I know it's not working yet. It's working. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 457 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on support for Ukraine's membership of the European Union, print No 2060. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on support for Ukraine's membership of the European Union (print No 2060). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on support for Ukraine's membership of the European Union The Ukraine's military and civil society continue to resist the unprovoked and unjustified military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, one of the most serious threats to European and global security. The people of Ukraine can count on the full support of the Polish society. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its thanks to the government of the Republic of Poland, local governments, NGOs and millions of people who help refugees and residents of the affected areas. - expresses his appreciation and admiration for the steadfast attitude of the Ukrainian people in the fight against beastly aggression; - considers that the only possible and necessary response to the brutal aggression of the Russian party is the determined and comprehensive response of the international community; - responds clearly and specifically to Ukraine's request for accession to the European Union; - calls on the Council of the European Union to launch a procedure to give Ukraine candidate status and calls on the European Commission to prepare a roadmap for accession negotiations and Ukrainian integration with the European Union; - calls on all EU institutions and Member States to allow Ukraine to join the European Community as soon as possible; - calls on the European Union to include Ukraine in the European Instrument for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Immunity and to set up a separate fund to support the reconstruction of war damage. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Members. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on support for Ukraine's membership of the European Union. We have formal requests. Therefore, I would very much like to ask Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz with his first formal proposal, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, we would like to ask for a recess until Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's declaration by the government to sell some of our country's fuel assets to Viktor Orbán, i.e. Hungarians. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Embarrassing.]] Hungary's position towards the anti-Russian coalition in Europe is at least ambiguous. During these days we must be absolutely sure who we are giving Polish fuel assets, who is to buy them, for what purpose and what risks are involved. [[Applause]] This isn't the time, actually, to trade with friends. This is the moment when the whole world decides which side of the barricade it wants to stand on. Well, Viktor Orbán is not really our ally in this case. Why should we sell him fuel assets now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please explain this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. The order of business shall be determined by the Marshal of the Sejm. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We still receive different signals from people who help strangers, refugees from Ukraine. Volunteers alarmed, among others. us, the club of the Polish Coalition, that most Ukrainians have a problem, because the savings of the entire life that they brought here with them are in hryvnia. Unfortunately, today in most currency exchangers there is no possibility to exchange this hryvnia, and if there is, the price is below any value. Therefore, in full peace, your marshal, using this gravity of the moment, the opportunity created by this item in today's proceedings, I wanted to ask, in his service, the Polish government to take this problem very seriously (the bell) so that, in addition to providing humanitarian aid to this problem, within the scope of the possibility, the Polish government would respond. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u289	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Poland has adopted half a million refugees from Ukraine. The great glory of the Republic that we are such an open community of values. The whole world looks and is proud that this is how we present our Polish values. But half a million people are the beginning. Soon there will be a million, then two, and if the war does not end positively for Ukraine - another million. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to speed up work on a law that will align refugee status, Ukraine, Ukraine, with the status of a citizen of the European Union in Poland in health, labour, safety and education rights. The sooner we do this, the greater will be the glory of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u291	Mr President, I would like to say that we have already talked about this, that we will most likely be considering the law that we discussed at the Convention meeting tomorrow as a matter of urgency. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] I'm making a pretty informal request, just like President Kaczyński once did without the mode to get your marshal to make sure that every marshal who's sitting there...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u293	Member, please put it in the microphone because you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u294	...and conducts the deliberations, does not allow for the rude, insolent statements made by a certain Kalet, perhaps by Peter, a Member of the PiS... [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] ... because it is unworthy of the Sejm to say so. It is also unworthy of the marshal's chair to tolerate it, and then not to allow a messenger who has been offended to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Aska, whatever.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u295	Thank you very much. We would like to refer to item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2057. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2057 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 453 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Foreign Trade Act on goods, technologies and services of strategic importance for the security of the state, as well as for maintaining international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the principles for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. The following conclusions were put forward in the discussion: - to refer the draft law to the Committee on Public Finances in addition, - the opinion of the draft also by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. I propose, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, that the Sejm refer the government draft law contained in print No 2022 to the European Union's Committee on Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposal and that the proposals put to the vote in the discussion. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on the motion to refer the bill to the Public Finance Commission in addition. Its rejection will mean that the project will be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance for opinion only. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer this bill to the Committee on Public Finances in addition will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 222 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for an opinion of the draft law also by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for an opinion on this draft law, in addition, by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 226 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 49th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 19 hrs. 16 min 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u296	Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please make your statement first... Mr Robert Obaz, Left, came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is where we often have a political dispute, which later moves to our homes, to our families. In our cities, people are discussing what we're talking about here, too. Last week, on Thursday, terrible events occurred beyond our eastern border. Attack of Russian forces on free Ukraine. The result of this attack was that not only Poles and Poles, but also the people of our country mobilized and all together as one fist took all action to help the Ukrainian people. From this point of view, I would like to thank all NGOs, residents of our cities and towns and villages, all those who have actively joined Ukraine, voluntary firefighters, rural hostels, associations, foundations, private individuals, local governments, who stand at the level of the task. Thanks are also due to soldiers, police officers and, in particular, Border Guard officers, who are able to help hundreds of thousands of refugees to move on our side in a fluent way. Thank you to all those who accept refugees from Ukraine under their roof, help them. Our parliamentary offices, because we also download suits sometimes, we wrap our sleeves and work hard, we open them for people who wanted to bring things to us, and we mediate them to get to the most in need as soon as possible. Anyone who's involved, thank you. And let's cross our fingers for free Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u298	Thank you very much. I would like to ask those Members who are not interested in these very important and significant statements to leave the Chamber, possibly silence the discussion. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left, will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! February 24 is the date that will be recorded on history cards as the day of Russia's armed assault on Ukraine. It's been eight days since the war. The largest cities are attacked, civilians are killed. This is a new, scary reality. As a member of the Podlasie land, I say with full conviction: we must support Ukraine with all our strength. Vladimir Putin attacked our neighbor. At the borders of Poland there was a war for independence. Let us not forget that the Federation troops also attacked Ukraine from Belarus. This is a country that has already lost its sovereignty to Russia. The aggressive actions of the Russian Federation pose a threat to the international order and to the peaceful coexistence of nations. They lead to destabilisation of the political and economic situation in Europe and in the world. The war forced many people to flee to Poland and other European countries. Over the week, we have adopted about 0.5 million war refugees from Ukraine. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs visited the Ukrainian border on Tuesday. There are hundreds, thousands of people there, and they keep coming. Mostly women and children - terrified, frozen, lost in a new situation. The Ukrainians are in a terrible mental state. There are even panic attacks. On the spot, psychologists and psychiatrists are needed, not only volunteers, but people provided by the state to provide assistance. We should further improve the aid system so that every person crossing the border receives rapid and concrete assistance. I declare my support to local governments, centers and organizations in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, which will be involved in helping Ukrainian citizens. There are many people who go on their own to help refugees from Ukraine. Let this assistance be wisely coordinated so that any Ukrainian crossing the border can count on comprehensive support, accommodation, food, medical, legal, psychological assistance. I appeal to the Commander of the Armed Forces of President Andrzej Duda to convene the National Security Council regularly in order to keep opposition politicians informed of the growing situation in Ukraine, with our neighbours. It is particularly important when there are still many fake news published by the Russian Federation in political and online circulation. In addition, if we are to increase our defence capabilities, we should work together on this, together - I stress. In the face of danger, one must speak with one voice. The safety of our neighbours is the safety of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u300	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Maciej Kopiec, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Europe, war crimes are being committed in the nearest vicinity of Poland at the moment. Kremlin's aggressor Vladimir Putin, manslaughter of rebuilding the criminal Soviet Union, breaks the law by murdering civilians, murdering innocent people without being remembered, to satisfy his sick ambitions. Examples of the brutality of the Russian Federation can be multiplied endlessly, as can international conventions and laws, which were broken at the request and ordered by a tyrant. The lack of respect for international humanitarian law, armed conflicts should not only be called war crimes - their ruthless pursuit is the duty of the world to which we belong. Russia is not a party to the International Criminal Court. Putin probably imagined that this would be enough to legalize the murders of the Ukrainian people. She's wrong. Ukraine recognises the jurisdiction of the Hague Court in its territory, which means that the leaders of Russian aggression can be held liable to the Hague Court. Appropriate applications have already been submitted and the Court is working on them. It is our duty to speak out that the Russian Federation led by Vladimir Putin is an aggressor who, as unprovoked, began an invasion of a sovereign state, breaking all conventions and humanitarian war laws. No deep fake or propaganda, unfortunately distributed also by supposedly Polish political parties, like the Confederation, can cover this truth. In the Ukrainian Ochtyrka, a Russian missile with cluster ammunition hit a civilian housing estate, 200 m from an active kindergarten, hurting children. Wuhledar - a cluster gun was used again, a civilian hospital was attacked. Four people were killed, eight were injured, including six hospital workers. Equipment was destroyed, including ambulances. Also in Ochtyrka, a Russian tank shot a civilian bus, no medical assistance was allowed. These are confirmed violations of the Rome Statute. A TV tower was bombed in Kiev, civilians were killed. That's cutting people off from information. Putin ordered the launch of a thermobaric rocket on the sumic circuit. About this weapon, General Waldemar Violin says this: this weapon is terrible, it destroys, kills, burns, sucks. Its use is prohibited in the Vienna and Geneva Conventions, and its use against the civilian population cannot be described because there are not enough words. One person to stop is responsible for the cold-blooded decision to invade. If the West doesn't protect Ukraine, we'll be watching thermobaric bombs in Tbilisi, Vilnius, Riga, maybe even Paris. Belarus already belongs to Putin. Let's not fool ourselves that a tyrant has any safety brake. The fame of Ukraine! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u302	The statement will be made by Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u303	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The future laboratories are an educational initiative implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science in cooperation with the GovTech Centre in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. As a member of the Sejm Committee on Education and Science, I participated in meetings and work related to the programme. As a multi-annual school director and chemistry and physics teacher, I see a unique opportunity for the implementation of this programme, an opportunity for schools from small and medium-sized centres. The future laboratories are the creation of a modern school, in which classes will be conducted in an interesting way, involving students and conducive to discovering their talents and developing their interests. The government of the United Right has allocated a considerable amount of PLN 1 billion to this program. The funds went to leading bodies and through them to 99% of Polish schools to purchase, among others. 3D printers, educational robots, virtual reality goggles or microcontrollers with sensors. This is a powerful injection of cash for educational institutions across the country. The Mazowieckie Voivodeship is guaranteed PLN 141 million. I organized press conferences in all the counties of my constituency of Plocko-Ciechanowski about government support for educational institutions. They were attended by representatives of local authorities and, in my opinion, by directors and teachers. It will be them who will be responsible for making the right use of the opportunity for modern school. Large schools have received thousands of funds for the purchase of modern equipment. It is also not forgotten about smaller municipal educational institutions, these are measures of between 30 and 70 thousand. In small schools like this. They are intended to ensure equal opportunities for children and young people from rural areas in the educational process. It is worth mentioning that the attractiveness of innovative forms and teaching methods is aimed at raising students' interest and desire to deepen knowledge, especially in the case of science such as physics, chemistry, mathematics and astronomy, to say the least, unliked and difficult subjects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u304	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u305	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The criminal aggression of Putin's Russia on Ukraine, the genocide that continues there, poses fundamental questions to governments of states, nations, communities, and also to every human being. How to behave, what to do? Let us ignore the governments of Belarus, Syria or North Korea, because they have absolutely nothing to do with democracy. The choice of decision is obvious, almost zero-one, basically zero-one, because we're dealing with an unjustified invasion. It is impossible to stand in a wide range, like the Orbanian Hungary, which on the one hand declare humanitarian aid and on the other hand categorically oppose the transit of arms through its territory. Orban's attitude requires that once again a serious check be made of the validity of the sale to the Hungarian concern MOL parts of Gdańsk Lotus. We're talking about the fuel industry, the strategic industry. Such supposed dilemmas as how to behave, what to do after Putin's aggression, did not have a local government of Pomeranian Voivodeship. A few days ago he concluded an agreement on cooperation between the Pomeranian voivodship and the administration of the Kaliningrad region and Duma Kaliningradzka. A few hours ago, the City Council of Gdansk adopted the break-up of the city partnership with Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg. Similar steps were announced by the authorities of Sopot, Malbork, New Court of Gdańsk and Tczew. Yes, that is the basic decency and solidarity with the destroyed Ukraine. Especially since there are serious questions about where Putin will stop. There's no place here to stand in a short space, there's no place here like Orbán to go to God with a candle, and then to hell with a watch. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u306	Thank you kindly. I would like to make a statement to Mrs Monica Falej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So war - these words were heard by every listener and every listener of Polish Radio on 1 September 1939. Exactly a week ago, we all woke up with the same words. Ukraine, our neighbouring nation, has been attacked. I address 4 million Ukrainians and Ukrainians living in Poland. You have every right to feel safe. You have the right to make your families feel safe. Your present home is home to your families. They also have the right to hide in Poland from Putin's disgusting and inhuman attack. It is our duty to provide you with support and shelter today. The shelter has already found nearly 600 thousand. your family and friends, our friends. I assure you, everyone and everyone will find safe shelter and care. We've been collecting anything that can help you, anything you need for a week. We're gathering equipment that we're sending to the border. The desks, the chairs have disappeared from my parliamentary office. There were blankets, clothes, food. It'll all come to you. We're with you. The public agrees that this is an attack on the world of Western values, whose Ukraine is today the greatest ambassador, that it is an attempt by Russia to submit to independent Ukraine. It's all true, but those words don't give people drama. It is an attack on a free nation, full of dreams and plans. According to reports, one of the first victims of this war is a 17 - year - old. To me, it will be a symbol of this terrible war. The young man woke up hoping for another day. Maybe he was thinking about what his mom was gonna make him for dinner. We know he'll never sit on that table again. He died, but no one asked him if he wanted to die. However, his mother will sit at this table. His mother knows she's probably not gonna swallow anything because her heart broke. Her world is ruined and it's over. She won't forget that day for the rest of her life, even though she wants to erase him from her mind, pretending he wasn't there, that his son would come home. It's been a week and today maybe this mother doesn't know where and where to sit. It's a real picture of war. Suffering, unimaginable pain after loss of loved ones. The war started, the world ended for the mother of a 17-year-old. There are already many such stories and there will be thousands of them. We have to realize that thousands of people are going to die. I can't accept it. I don't know what I can do, but I can't just stand by and watch suffering and death. I believe there are more people of good faith, and I firmly believe that this world will never die because of them. That's why I call on everyone to sacrifice themselves so that they won't allow one man to kill another. That is why today I appeal also to the Russians and Russians: This is not your war. You can be the heroes - anyone who stops the mad attack of your leader. The Russian people have asked for you. Your deti pagibnut in war ubiwaya detey of Ukraine. Bolshe net war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u308	I would like to make a statement by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The heroic Ukrainian people have been fighting for 8 days - fighting for their freedom, for their dignity, for their children, for their streets. For the first time, Europe is fully supporting Ukraine, but what it recognises us is the attitude of Poles and Poles towards those who come to us from Ukraine. In every corner of Poland you can see this warmth and openness. In small towns... That's how it is with me. Municipal People's Sports Club ¿Pelikanze Nieponowo. On Sunday, parents and children bring everything they consider necessary to their peers. Schools, libraries, voluntary firefighters, rural hostels, local governments - all who feel the need for a heart, organize themselves to help their friends coming from Ukraine. Together with friends, with the councillors of the New Left of the city of Gniezno and the district of Gniezno, with the association of the Young Left, organizations of public benefit, the Association of Young Great Poles, we have tried to organize a collection financed by financial donations so that these donations can make targeted purchases, i.e. for the needs of a particular family, which comes to Gniezno and Gniezno County and Wielkopolska. There's a response. One of the donors, when I texted him, said, "Thank you, I don't need to thank you, it's from the heart. Mr Peter, in turn, also after I thank you, responded: I am glad that I could support such a fine initiative which stems from the needs of our consciences and humanity. This action is ongoing with Ukraine. I hope that this is how everyone will find a piece of their own humanity and be able to help another man. Let us not be indifferent to human harm, regardless of the color of the skin or the confession of people fleeing Russian bombs. Let's keep an eye on the fake news. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us not give in to panic either, because the goal that we have, helping another man and fighting for free Ukraine, is the most important thing for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! From this point I would like to thank all volunteers, NGOs, local governments from Będzin, Dąbrowa, Zawiercie, Sosnowiec, from all over Zagłębie for being so wonderfully involved in helping refugees from Ukraine. Today, let me present the appeal of the nationwide protest of higher education and science workers. Let me read what the university staff have to say about their work and salaries. Higher education and science have been struggling with chronic underfunding for years. We have repeatedly pointed this out in our appeals to the rulers, including during the pandemic, which has shown the importance of scientific research with all its power. The priorities of political power, including plans for multi-billion-dollar expenditure increase, once again do not apply to higher education and science. The government has not even complied with the 30% increase commitments over the three-year period during the implementation of the Law on Higher Education and Science in 2018. The Prime Minister tells us how much wages are growing everywhere. Perhaps he means the increases that power has given itself. We don't know from now on that the government will feed itself. Unfortunately, with regard to higher education and science, government mathematics is different. Despite the galloping prices for 2022, no wage increases were planned for us, as was the case in 2021. It is a nationwide protest of higher education and science workers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u313	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's another big anniversary. The next one is February 19th. On that day, Capt. Capt. was murdered in the majesty of the law. Stanisław Sojczyński, commander of the Polish Conspiracy Army, the largest organization of the underground independence in the Radomszczańsko-Piotowski region after World War II. I have already introduced this figure to the High House. He's one of the cursed ones we've been trying to forget for decades. He was not only engaged in an active armed struggle, but also engaged in active political activities, trying to pinpoint his objectives precisely. He knew what he was fighting for, with all his consciousness - like all of them. The above date prompts me to reflect. Today, some political environments try to depreciate their ideology by accusing crimes they have not committed. The nicknames Orlik, Fire, Warsaw, Scoundrels and many others are written in a new history to deprive them of proper respect. You can't do that. History is one, and so is the truth. The people faithful to the ideals, faithful to the oath they made, finally faithful to the Republic of Poland, her rightful government were her last soldiers, soldiers fulfilling their duty to the end. One of the cursed, Major Jerome Dekutowski. The dam, silent when he heard about another amnesty, which communists tried to soften the patriots, said: Amnesty is for thieves, and we are the Polish Army. Dekutowski was killed in March 1949 with a shot to the back of his head with six other subordinates. Similarly, Łupaszek, Soyczyński and others died. Some haven't been found until today. Their burial sites are unknown. Much has been done to discover this truth, but still not enough. We hope that the young generations will know the role that they have played in the contemporary history of Poland. It should be made clear that more than 90% of those cursed were peasants, Polish peasants, patriots. Józef Piłsudski said that without the January Uprising there would be no independence in 1918. Now I'm gonna put up a thesis, and I'm ready to defend that without the cursed, there would be no solidarity in 1980. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u315	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the shadow of bombs falling on Ukraine, on beautiful cities: Kiev, Kharkiv and many others, in the context of war crimes committed by Putin and obedient to him an army that kills Ukrainians and Ukrainians - and very often it is a civilian population - in the shadow of millions of refugees fleeing from death and from tortures, of which more than half a million are already in Poland, our problems have become pale for a while, but they have not disappeared and they cannot remain unsolved. They also need to be resolved, of course, given what is at the moment the most important priority for us. But I would still like to mention those problems that are unresolved. This is undoubtedly true of the group most discriminated against in Poland, which is women. Violence against women still exists, abuse of women is a huge problem, and there is still no law to change the definition of rape in such a way that only this means consent to behavior which is acceptable by women. Independent parents, especially women, were at the moment badly treated by the Polish Load lost the opportunity to settle with their children taxally, thus financially losing very, very much. Not just these women, but mostly their children. Pregnant women who face a problem with their pregnancy often lose their health and have lost their lives. That's not what he's gonna do. These problems await a solution and the rights of women must be fully implemented in Poland. But at the same time I wanted to emphasize that these groups discriminated against, just women, all of them, but women also, have been very involved in helping Ukraine, Ukrainians, Ukrainians, engage in gatherings both material and financial, as well as in transporting these gifts where needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Women fight not only for their rights, but also for the rights of Ukrainians. Moreover, Members of the Left are also active in their offices. In my offices in Gliwice and in Zabrze the door doesn't actually close, people bring these gifts. Thus, despite these difficult situations in Poland that we are dealing with, and despite these unresolved problems we have still preserved this humanity and we are able to share. That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, will now speak and make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement about genocide in Ukraine and the help brought by Poland. From this place I made many statements about Polish war heroes. In my wildest dreams, I never imagined that I would ever speak of war, genocide, heroism, patriotism and solidarity in the present time. And times are really hard. As usual, we Poles, in the face of these difficult times, can carry help together. The difficult times in which we may live have determined us as a nation. We are strong and we bring this strong help to Ukraine. We have opened our borders, our homes and, above all, our hearts. I was in Ukraine the day before yesterday. Together with Marshal Terletki and the MPs, we provided humanitarian aid - food, medical supplies, medicines - to the parish in Mościska, Ukraine. We were received very warmly by a Catholic priest, as well as by an Orthodox pop. What is now happening in Ukraine is the genocide of the civilian population in violation of all the rules of war. Russian barbarism, which we Poles know very well, is gaining momentum in Ukraine. What we can do now is unite as a nation and unite as a European Community in order to become independent of Russian raw materials. What we can do is not stop helping and, above all, do not give in to Russian disinformation. Sleep. Lech Kaczyński predicted such a turn of events. Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński also pointed to Russia's strong position in his famous letter to the ambassadors. Ladies and gentlemen! We've lived to see a really difficult time when I've never been proud of being a Pole. Long live free and independent Ukraine. Glory to our country - Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u318	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u319	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The importance of the presence of our homeland, Poland, NATO, especially in the current international situation, is not to convince anyone. The war behind our eastern border caused by Russia's military aggression on Ukraine very painfully and eloquently reminds us that peace is a value of great importance and is not given once and for all. Our country's participation in the North Atlantic Alliance makes it possible to count on the presence of troops of allied countries on the Polish soil. That's what happened last time in Mielec. Since February this year. American soldiers are stationed there. It strengthens our sense of security. This fact has made it necessary to prepare for the Medical Hospital in the Hospital Emergency Department. Edmund Biernacki in Mielec, an additional CPR room. After consulting the hospital director with the doctor and medical staff of the U.S. Army, which is stationed in Mielec, it was determined that the following equipment would be needed: defibrillator, cardiomonitors, infusion pumps, CPAP ventilators. This week, we were able to get the equipment we needed. This was possible thanks to the immediate decision of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Although we would like to say that it is best that this equipment does not have to be used at all, care for the highest standards of medical care and uncertainty about the times in which we live makes it absolutely necessary to carry out this task. I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Adam Niedzielski, your voivode Eve Leniart and President Michałów Kuczmierowski in a special way for this implementation and the transfer of equipment worth several hundred thousand PLN in such a short time. Your personal involvement in this matter has been invaluable. Thank you very much again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus will speak. We can't see, but he might show up. The statement will now be made by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. We invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation that has taken place for several days scares everyone very much and gives them great concern, but life continues in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in my speech, I would like to raise the issue of agriculture. Spring is already behind the belt, we see it at court, ladies and gentlemen, and many of the things that are very important for farmers remain unresolved. For several weeks there has been a debate in Poland about subsidies for fertilisers, whether to a ton or to a hectare, while the problem is unresolved and farmers cannot decide. These words are addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, who promised to intervene, said that he is discussing this with the European Commission. Farmers today expect concrete action, Prime Minister, Minister, concrete decisions. Let it not be so that at the very end They're the ones who're gonna fund agriculture and what they're gonna do. Second thing. On behalf of farmers from my region, West Pomerania, I say, ladies and gentlemen: the drought application - has completely failed the test in action. Today we expect one simple decision, Minister. It is about eliminating this application - to the basket with it - and restoring the existing system until you propose something better. That's what needs to be done. today, on the front page, so that farmers know how the possible drought losses will be assessed. Here's another thing. You have announced, Minister, Prime Minister, that they will be paid to farmers, even to those who have not been able to generate drought losses above 30%, compensation. We expect these compensations. And one more very important thing about the policy of the European Union, just the green order. With many records I simply disagree, I would say, so systematically, among others. limited production in Poland and in the European Union. Perhaps today, in view of what is happening in Ukraine, because of what is not coming, it is about the supply of cereals even to Europe, it is worth to suspend certain solutions related to limitation, greening. It is important that our farms undertake this basic activity, that is, agricultural production. We should not limit this in any way. I hope that this situation will lead to the reflection of the entire European Commission, our Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski, and that we will withdraw from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u322	Thank you very much, sir. I do not see Mr Jakub Rutnicki in the Chamber, but Mr Michał Gramatyk, Poland 2050. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Silesia, in Tychy, in Mikołów, in Vyra, in Katowice, in Czerwionka-Leszczyny and in many other towns there are protests of inhabitants who will be threatened by the high-speed railroad. And I must say that the degree of ignorance and arrogance of government negotiators in this matter is shocking. The discussion over the track runs very often goes remotely. The residents have no right to ask questions at all, they are doomed to hear about the first, second, or third option. Each of these variants is destructive to their small homelands. In Mikolowo, for example. The line is to pass through the botanical garden, split it in half. You can't move the garden to another place. Palowice will be divided into two parts, moreover, it will be part of the commune - without any communication from one to the other. Such communication is also not included in the plans. It is similar in the case of Wyr, there will also have to be demolished dozens of buildings. Half of Orzesz will disappear, the southern districts of Katowice will be demolished. The Belk will be cut in half. At the same time, this municipality will lose almost all investment areas. In recent years, many local authorities have pointed out and negotiated solutions related to high-speed rail, often even reaching agreement in these negotiations, but today there are completely new options that have not been negotiated at all with local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to their plans to build a great infrastructure for Poles and Poles, remember that behind each major project there are small projects of the same Poles and Poles, their plots, houses, cities, towns and villages, municipalities, recreational areas, investment areas, normal affairs of normal people. You shouldn't forget that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u324	Thank you very much. And it looks like a series of statements today... Oh, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski appeared suddenly and unexpectedly. [[He's been there the whole time.]] Please? [[He's been there the whole time.]] But he's hiding somewhere, and he's a modest man, and that's why he's so... But always fighting for a good cause. Here you are, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski of the Civic Coalition, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u325	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The war in Ukraine has been going on for over a week, and in Poland more than 600 thousand have already found refuge. refugees and refugees. Every day, every hour this number increases. Recently, I spent a few days at the border, visited all the crossings and reception points where I spoke to people fleeing the war, with human rights experts, with representatives of the Ombudsman's Office, with everyone present there. I thank all those who have been involved in helping and in this greatest humanitarian challenge in our country since World War II. Thank you very much to all those taking refugees under their roof, organizing collections and firefighters, border guards, police, scouts, hundreds of volunteers, local government officials and everyone else. Poland gives a test of solidarity and shows its really beautiful face. A big, big thank-you. I'm proud of our country like I've never seen in my life. I am very pleased that all this is happening and that there are further initiatives that are being developed organically. However, we must remember that it will not be a sprint, but a marathon. Polish people and Poles have great hearts, but in order to help hundreds of thousands of people effectively, we need an active role of government. Help will be effective if it is well coordinated. There are a few things that should be done really here and now. Firstly, humanitarian corridors must be established at border crossing points. A non-governmental organisation should be designated from both the Polish and Ukrainian sides, which has experience in providing assistance. I'm in touch, among others. with the Polish Red Cross and I know that it happens slowly, and with other NGOs. It's starting, but it's still getting too slow. There are thousands of people waiting on our border. These are mostly women and children, standing in the cold - there is at this point about zero, last week it was minus 5 degrees Celsius. That's why time flies, and that's why efficient humanitarian corridors are needed yesterday. It really has to work like a transmission belt. Secondly, let us remember that people of another nationality are also fleeing from Ukraine, and therefore all refugees and refugees should enjoy the same rights and support measures. Thirdly, it is necessary to appeal to the Ukrainian party to improve the procedures. It is on that side that the biggest queues arise, as I mentioned. The solution to this could be, for example. Joint briefings... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two more sentences, Marshal. ...which work well, for example. on the passageway in the Budmeter. This solution should be introduced at all crossings, including. I'm in medicine. That would significantly increase the capacity. Fourthly, after crossing the border on all crossings should wait professional, organized waiting rooms, e.g. big tents so people can have tea, eat something. Such a waiting room should be organized by NGOs, which could coordinate all of this, maintain order and answer the question of what next, where is the reception point, where these people will go further. Here, too, a partner should be appointed to coordinate this. Someone who could be the host who welcomes these people with bread and salt, as in our tradition. I know this is all a big improvisation right now, and I understand these difficult circumstances, but in a moment, refugees and refugees will be even more, and we have to be ready for this. I know we can handle everything, but this requires cooperation and coordination of all these actions at government level. Then we will help effectively. I know we can do this. Long live free Ukraine! Long live Poland! Long live Europe! Slava Ukraine! Heroyam Slava! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u326	I saw that he welcomed your speech by a very experienced parliamentarians, Dr. Czesław Siekierski, who will now make a statement, and seems to be closing the round of speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is common to acknowledge what Poles do for Ukraine, for refugees. It's already hundreds of thousands, probably millions. This recognition also flows from abroad, but for us, I think it is not surprising, because we know that the Polish people always united in difficult times, helped, was very sensitive to human harm, to problems that need to be solved if people need to be helped. Of course, today it is some kind of more action, but we need to be aware that this assistance requires a certain continuity, that it is important that we direct this assistance to the places where refugees will be deployed at the moment. Fortunately, they go to different towns, different cities, different villages, different districts, municipalities. Self-governments have a great deal of experience in solving human problems and I think, I am convinced that they will also cope with the reception and somehow involve in social life, but also with regard to finding work, caring, schooling for all those who find themselves in these towns. Of course, this also requires some State aid, because local authorities will not be able to cover all the costs. I think that this approach, this openness is such a test for us too, and I am convinced that we will be able to meet these obligations, because there will be many, much more in the future, because, as I said, it is important that this assistance is continuous. The second thing I wanted to bring up is that today we accepted to work, we started working on the Homeland Defense Act. The bill was announced earlier, it does not indicate whether it is related to the war situation in Ukraine. She was, you might say, in the Sejm's plan. We must take into account that this law is specific because it requires certain arrangements. Arrangements related to our allies, i.e. NATO, the Union, the US, so it requires a lot of different work, because the situation in Ukraine has confirmed that in difficult times such wartimes are important alliances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is important is the situation of people when it comes to the involvement of society, the involvement of people, the involvement of the nation. New areas of the case are emerging as well. These are problems related to the new approach to cybersecurity, as well as to specific infrastructure security, infrastructure which is important for maintaining this adequate standard of living for people. It's about energy infrastructure, IT infrastructure. All this requires a very modern approach to this Homeland Defense Act. This is particularly important because Poland has a specific geopolitical position. We need to take many aspects into account in the preparation of this law so that it responds to many challenges, challenges of the present, but also to our geopolitical conditions or to some other conditions that are related to our historical situation, as well as to our current situation. It's what I said about these necessary arrangements with allies. Next point on the next statement. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-03-sejm-49-3.u328	He has raised such important points that he can continue. [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 49th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 50th session of the Sejm, convened on 8 and 9 March 2022, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 12]]
