ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u1	Resume session. I will call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marta Kubiak and Patrick Wichra, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers. In the first part of the session, Mr Marta Kubiak will be the secretary, who has already taken the place at the Presidency table. I therefore ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u2	It informs that today the Commission will meet: - Public Finance - hour. 9.15, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the National Defence Commission - hour 9.30 a.m., - Health - also hours. 9.30 a.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Public Finance - hour 10, - Physical culture, sports and tourism - also hours. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - also hours. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Foreign affairs - also hours. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - at the end of the item: Current information, i.e. ca. h. 13, - Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour 18. The Parliamentary Group will also be meeting today. Environment, Energy and Climate - hour 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Mr Piotr Dziadzio, who will answer questions raised by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, is already present undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. They will concern the government's actions regarding the independence of Poland from oil, gas and coal supplies from Russia. You're welcome, sir. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What about us?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Poland as a country has done a lot in the last 6 years to become independent of Russian hydrocarbons. Will this be the day of sovereignty on 1 January 2023? Will it be a contractual date of independence from oil supply, gas supply, coal supply from the East? Dear Minister, what does our country's actions look like in the context of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking Minister Piotr Dada for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u6	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, It is with great pleasure that I will provide you with information about the activities which the Government of the Republic of Poland has undertaken and how actively it is working to diversify the supply of energy sources, as well as to diversify the supply of basic energy sources such as natural gas, oil and coal. Ladies and gentlemen! I am unable to answer this question within 5 minutes, this is a very broad issue and a very complex process that has actually been going on for many years. As a point of introduction, I would like to say to you that since the beginning of the war, Russia's war with Ukraine, the Republic of Poland has been in favour of far-reaching and effective sanctions with broad economic consequences for the Russian Federation. We all confirm this undisputedly, and we all feel the same way. [[When the coal's coming, it's going.]] Please? Wait for an explanation. Ladies and gentlemen! Resignation from the supply of Russian raw materials is not only a major challenge for us, but in the current circumstances it is a necessity. Necessity - I stress that once again. Only cutting off these resources can help to stop violations of human rights, international rights and the end of armed war, aggression against our neighbour. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish government decided to cut off the supply of energy raw materials: oil, gas from Russia by the end of 2022 and coal immediately. Immediately, I repeat. In line with the declaration made by the President of the Council of Ministers at the conference on 30 March, we will do our utmost to leave Russia's oil by the end of the year. By strengthening this message, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki repeatedly called on the European Commission also to strengthen sanctions and impose them on Russia by the European Union, mainly in the field of energy raw materials imports. Ladies and gentlemen! I am moving on to the issue of diversification, responding specifically to the question of what the Government of the Republic of Poland has done in terms of the supply of hydrocarbons. In short, I will quickly present to you the government's actions regarding the dependence of Poland on three raw materials, namely natural gas, oil and coal. Of course, as of today, the Polish gas system against the background of other European Union countries has a very high degree of resistance to supply disruptions, mainly from the eastern direction. It should be noted that thanks to the appropriate and responsible policy of the government, the Polish security system was based on provisions of the Wrestling Act which set out procedures for introducing restrictions on natural gas consumption and mechanisms for launching mandatory stocks of natural gas in a situation of fuel security of the country, which guarantee the security of supply of natural gas to national customers. As a result, Poland is one of the best prepared to disrupt the supply of natural gas to the Member States of the European Union. Today we have a significant level of filling underground gas storage, which is a security buffer, very important, as you know. How's it going in practice? In 2015, the government took action to rapidly diversify its energy supply, mainly natural gas. And that's a fact. From 1 January 2023, thanks to the completion of key infrastructure projects and the completion of a long-term contract for the supply of natural gas to Poland, we will be able to cover all the demand for natural gas from other than eastern directions. It will be soon, ladies and gentlemen. This is evidence of an efficient diversification of energy supplies for many years. All these infrastructure areas that have been launched, you know: this is the LNG terminal, that is Baltic Pipe, these are system connections with Slovakia and Lithuania, that is the construction of the FSRU - a floating regasification terminal (The Bell) in the Gulf of Gdansk. There are also many investments in oil. Let me briefly mention, for example, a 25% reduction in oil supply from Russia, from the eastern direction. - from 88% in 2015 to 63% in 2021 We have built... we have expanded capacity and storage capacity of fuels, also imported raw materials, oil, thanks to the activities of PKN Orlen. His deliveries are diversions of Lotus. By the end of the year no deliveries will be made from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Poland. As far as coal is concerned - I am finishing, because there is little time - ladies and gentlemen, all our actions are very strongly focused on cutting off the Russian Federation from the sources of revenue, which is revenue from energy raw materials, including hard coal. Yesterday, we discussed the Law on Special Solutions to Combat Supporting Aggression to Ukraine and to Protect National Security, which was addressed to the Sejm on 30 March. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were discussing precisely that the sanctions should include, as a matter of urgency, coke and tariff-related products as described in the Act. These are real, concrete actions that show that we are able - because we are - to separate ourselves from these raw materials, as I have shown you here, and at the same time we will intensify our work on the extraction and delivery of this raw material, namely coal, from alternative directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u7	I understand that Mr... [[Mr. Marshal's extended, and I'm quitting. Thank you.]] I understand. Thank you very much. I also thank the Minister. We therefore come to the second question, which will concern practical possibilities of accessing Polish citizens to the passport departments of the regional offices and making a passport. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. They will be answered by Minister Paweł Chezernaker. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska will be the first question. [[Microphone.]] Please turn on the microphone, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u8	Oh, yeah, sorry, it was green. Once again, Mr. Marshal and Minister. The question is very timely and stems from the concern of citizens who raise their objections to the parliamentary offices. This is not an isolated example, I will tell the Minister immediately, because it turned out that this situation is very much in many voivodships and is identical. On 27 March, the amended legislation on passport documents entered into force and it was a very good decision because it coincided with... The new rules simplify the procedure, speed up the procedure, in one word, just happiness, because they are based on the possibility of registering and submitting an application via the Internet. Of course, because at the moment we have the digitization of the state, we are teaching and preparing citizens to use this form, it seemed that it was a bull's-eye, especially since the season of trips is approaching, and it is trips not only to the countries of the European Union where you can travel with proof. If we know some citizens, they prefer to have a passport with them. Proof of proof, passport, certainty. So this 27 - preceded by this was a short, probably three-day period of stopping work to implement the system - horrible queues became before the offices. Why? They're supposed to be in front of computers. It turned out that neither 27, nor 28, nor 29, nor 30, nor 31 (the bell), and I will say, Minister, nor yesterday this system simply did not work. These pages were still, dead, could not be registered in any way. I repeat, yesterday, even though I was in the Seym, I asked an office worker to go on purpose and check. Of course, at the passport office of the queue, you stand for hours and I won't repeat what people say. Looks like we wanted it to be okay, but it worked out as usual, Minister. And I don't get it. This isn't a space operation. The system was being prepared, it's been a long time since the bill was passed to implement it. I'd like to ask the Minister why it doesn't work, and ask him when he's gonna act. Because it's crazy. People are leaving, there's gonna be a May Day, then there's gonna be a vacation. A citizen has the right to forget he doesn't have a passport for a child, right? If he wanted to find out what picture. He needs it and where he can do it, he won't know it on the side of the voivodship office either, because there's no information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u10	Sorry, Minister. Computerization... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u11	The Minister will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for this question, because there is a lot of information in the public opinion that needs to be clarified, and I would like to explain it today from this speaker. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, this law did not come into force on 27 March. The Ukrainian specialty - and this was also the topic of discussion in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - was postponed because in March, due to many other tasks which the authorities had to carry out, it was not possible to carry out tests of this system in the offices. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Where was the information?]] So this law did not enter into force, it was postponed by the Ukrainian law. Mrs. Member! I would like to clarify a number of issues which the public has a right to know. Of course, we're not saying there's no problem. There's a problem. What does it say? Maybe I'll start with statistics. In 2019, it is worth knowing, made in Poland throughout the year 1946 thousand. passports. In 2020 and 2021, the number of proposals due to pandemics and lockdown issues decreased significantly. Let me give you some examples to let you know that. In 2019 1,900 thousand passports were issued, in 2020. - only 800,000 and in 2021 - 1300 000. Thus, in 2020 there were more than one million proposals less than in 2019. There are people who have invalid passports whose validity ended in 2020 and have not made new ones because of lockdown and because the offices acted differently. In 2021, in the first months - January, February, March, April - we had much less proposals, about 50-60 thousand. monthly in the first quarter, while normally, in a normal situation, before the pandemic, there were 150, 190, and there were months that even 200,000. monthly. Here was 50,000. monthly. As a result, in 2021 a total of 1300 000 were produced. That's a lot less than before the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, there are indeed many people in offices whose passports expired in 2020 and 2021. Now, after abolishing the pandemic sharpenings, as well as probably due to the situation in our part of the world, many people want to have a valid passport, they want to make it. Therefore, let us say, during the first quarter of this year, a note of 567 thousand was submitted. applications - already, during the first quarter. 567,000. That shows a significant increase. In the first quarter of last year, 202 thousand... [[And in 2019?]] ...and in 2019 480 thousand were deposited. in the first quarter. So that's 567,000. This is slightly more than in the first quarter of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! From the beginning, when the queues appeared, we have implemented many different actions. They're not enough everywhere, I know that. We try to talk to the voivods once a week about the next steps they implement. For example, this week another activity was implemented in voivodships, where there are the longest queues - in Opole and Świętokrzyskie. So that the issues that you have presented here are known to us are coordinated. Ladies and gentlemen! As a rule, there are voivodships where there is no problem. In large voivodships, which have so far been adapted to accept many applications, there is generally no problem. There are queues, but we have to wait. E.g. in Warsaw you can make a passport practically from day to day. As far as smaller voivodships are concerned, which were not prepared, let's say to ourselves, to increase the number of applications submitted, we are introducing various solutions, such as: extending the service hours of citizens applying for a passport document. Some of the regional offices are also organized by the so-called "voivodship." Passport Saturdays. It's not like it happens every once in a while. Passport applications are accepted every Saturday in many offices. This allows citizens to submit them on a day off from work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If I could just ask for another 40 seconds. Where possible, staff from other voivodship offices shall be posted to carry out passport tasks. I think that temporary difficulties in telephone contact with office staff are largely due to the fact that many of the staff serving the helpline have been shifted to operations at passport windows. I'd like to declare that the Homeland Security is doing everything they can to shorten the queues. As I said, in many places in smaller offices they were able to shorten them at the moment. Not everywhere, but we will strive to ensure that all our citizens who want to make passports at the moment have the opportunity. By the time I get back, I'm gonna ask the officials to check... If you cannot find on the Internet on the website of information offices e.g. what picture is needed, or information about the details of passport making, it must be changed. This information needs to appear as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. As the second question, Mr Dariusz Joński asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, we've all read articles that describe queues. People set up for their passport at even an hour. Two o'clock in the morning. That was before the Lower Silesian Provincial Office. Not much better in other cities. This was at the beginning of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It's been 40 days, so there's some way we can figure this out. Well, I took the liberty of... Near the Sejm, on the street. I think there's a passport department. It's kind of weird to me, but it's only open between hours. 8 a.m. 3:30. Is that it? Speaking of which: an increase in hours. There's no information on that. It's closed on Saturday, Sundays too. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes. In Łódź, too.]] I think it would be worth running the department on Saturday to unload the line. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 phone calls. It's completely impossible to connect. On-line calendar doesn't work at all. There is no chance to sign up for any date (the bell) in April. If you'll allow the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u15	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u16	I just want to point that out. This is an example of a place that is close to Parliament. I would like to draw attention to one thing. People are going to get a number to file a motion. Then they go twice to file that motion. It really looks a little medieval. You could print the application yourself, book the date On-line and go only to make a motion. If the Internet system isn't working yet... Civilization of the numbers to the window should go to the lamus tonight. That's what I'd like to appeal for. I don't know why the reservation system On-line has been wiped out at all. Is he clogged or not functioning at all? Three quick questions. Do you have any information on how long this document is currently being produced? How many places in the voivodship were it possible to submit applications on Saturday? When this, you can say, comes into force, the Passport Documents Act that simplifies and accelerates the whole process, because it emphasizes the computerisation of administrative procedures? It's really quite important. I think we've all got people who have a huge problem with this coming to the parliamentary offices of each of us. Not everyone's been able to stand in line for hours. 5 p.m. or 5 p.m. 6. Hence my three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u17	Thank you very much. Sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u18	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I need to ask you something, Minister. Minister! You tell me the system. That bill didn't come into force. I'm sorry, but the only thing I followed was the press release - probably from the PAP or the Legal Newspaper - that the law entered into force on 27. Tell me: Where was it said that she did not come into force?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u19	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u20	In the bill, in the law. I can't relate to any press releases. I need to see her. Then I could say something. Perhaps the press release was incompatible with reality. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there are days in Warsaw where the possibility of online dating is excluded in order to improve acceptance of applications, contrary to appearances. Did you, Mr President, try to make such a request today? [[No, I've been trying to reach you.]] Exactly. I must say that anyone who walks from the street in Warsaw to the office on the street. He's gonna file a motion today. I have information from the voivodship. On some days some options are turned off due to the fact that it is easier Just do it like this. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, it looked like every voivodship office had its own way of functioning. We want to bring this into line with a law that will come into force. There are no harmonisation solutions in the Act, but we want to introduce a practice to ensure that these issues are harmonised at national level, so that citizens have the right to make a passport without problems and know how to do it. Let me put it this way, the implementation of the register of passport documents, i.e. the implementation of the provisions of the law that you spoke about, is the first step towards significantly increasing the number of passport points on a national scale. This is the first step for us to speed up the issue of passports in the near future. It's going on right now -- you asked me that -- up to a month after the application was filed. That's what the bill says, and that deadline is being kept. The Documentary Personalization Centre, an institution subordinate to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which personalizes passports, currently works in this mode. We have changed the way this institution operates in the last 2 months, so that we can make all the documents in terms of the applications that affect it. Therefore, passports are issued according to the statutory deadline of up to 30 days, but in many places it is much faster. In fact, the most time-consuming issue in developing a passport is the question of later transport of this special mail from Warsaw to another city, because it is a special mail organized by the services, so it is for security reasons. But we're issuing a passport as soon as possible. I think that today in Warsaw you can make a passport in a few days. There are queues and we will try to make everyone (the bell) who plans to make a passport as soon as possible that passport has been made. We know this problem and we are trying to prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. This will apply to aid to residential loan borrowers due to a significant increase in interest rates. It shall be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Piotr Patkowski will reply to the authorised Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. And the question will be asked by President Wiesław Szczepański.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday, the Monetary Policy Council decided to raise all interest rates by 1%. Thus, the reference rate increased to 4.5% on a yearly basis. WIBOR 3M as at 5 April was 4.9%. Analysts estimate that interest rates may rise to up to 6.5% in May and June. This is the seventh interest rate increase since October Ub. where the main rate was 0.1%. In January 2021, the Chairman of the Monetary Policy Council said that he allowed interest rate reductions, allowed negative rates, and on 9 September 2021 he assured that there were no conditions for their increase. Trusting you, young people took loans to buy an apartment. In 2021 alone, more than 272 thousand were included. credit agreements for nearly 90 billion. The average value of the loan was close to 350 thousand. PLN and housing prices rose by a few percent every month. After yesterday's increase in the interest rates of housing loans of 300 thousand. PLN increased by more than 70% compared to October 2020. In some voivodships, the cost of paying 400-thousand housing loans accounts for almost 70% an average wage. Families are sometimes left with 1 000 after payment of the loan. zł with existing and crazy inflation. They do not have annual bonuses, like the President of the National Bank of Poland, 600 thousand. A year to pay off that loan. You will say, Minister, that borrowers in financial difficulties may apply for support from the Creditor Support Fund, but we know it's fiction. So I ask you to answer: How does the government intend to help thousands of young Poles and Poles paying off such expensive mortgage today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u23	Thank you very much. Now I ask Minister Piotr Patkowski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, I will start by saying that it is always worth saying at least two sentences in such discussions about the fiscal policy mix, which must always be done, and that it is worth listening carefully to what the President of the National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council say, because for a few months now here in the High House, we have been discussing the effects of inflation, how to deal with it and remember how the opposition has criticised and attacked the President of the NBP and the Monetary Policy Council for not raising interest rates for many months. At that time, the President of Glapiński and other members of the Monetary Policy Council clearly informed about the implications, advantages and disadvantages of such policies. The opposition wasn't very interested in hearing it, she saw an excellent prescription to criticize NBP for not having to raise interest rates. When the Monetary Policy Council, reacting to events that are happening, i.e. inflation imported to Poland, but also the geopolitical situation related to the situation in Ukraine, took action in this direction, at this moment the opposition suddenly remembered the effects of raising interest rates and that this affects the factor of WIBOR and the increase in loan instalments, even though the NBP President clearly informed it. So that it is worth keeping some uniformity in communication here, because the opposition will always find a reason for criticism regardless of the situation. [[Don't teach politics, just answer the question.]] It is really very important that the most important thing in monetary policy is credibility and consistency in the message. It also affects the so-called. anchoring inflation expectations. As far as the instruments of support for borrowers are concerned, this is obviously the Creditor Support Fund. I do not know why the Member said that he was a fiction. For me, it is not fiction, and I will give you a few specific reasons. The Creditor Support Fund was established in 2015, its operation was extended indefinitely in 2018, and in 2019, on the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, with the support of the majority of Parliament's Law and Justice, significant modifications to the operation of this fund were adopted. What are the conditions for borrowers to obtain support from this fund? These are alternative conditions, i.e. it is enough that the borrower will fulfil one of them in order to be able to obtain the support he is applying for. First - the borrower has the status of unemployed. The second is that the value of the loan-to-income ratio exceeds 50%. So in the situation about which you said that there are many regions of Poland, or 70% the average instalment of the loan to the average salary, when these are indicators, the person has the full right to benefit from the support from the Creditor Support Fund. It meets the basic condition, it can benefit from this support. I remind you, these are alternatives. The third condition - where the monthly income of a single household does not exceed twice the amount of social assistance and, in the case of a multiple household, the product of that twice the number of persons living in the household. So this is the next situation you've been talking about, that the borrowers are sometimes left with $1,000. PLN after payment of the loan instalment. Such a person may benefit from the Creditor Support Fund. How's that backup looking? You can receive up to 2 000 support for 36 months. PLN per month. That's $2,000. zł per month sets this rate: to, this is the monthly instalment of the loan. When it's under 2,000. zł, this is the reference value, and when it exceeds, it is up to 2 thousand. What does the return of such help look like? This is an interest-free loan, i.e. in the case of inflation, the value of this loan falls from year to year because it is interest-free. Secondly, it shall be paid after 5 years of receipt of the first instalment or 2 years after receipt of the last instalment. It is paid in 144 instalments, which means the maximum instalment is 500 PLN per month. Third, almost 1/3 of this loan amount may be decommitted provided that this amount of instalments is regularly repaid. What is enough to benefit from this help? Apply to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I've got 18 seconds left, so I'm gonna say one more sentence. As the Ministry of Finance, we asked financial security institutions: KNF, NBP, financial spokesman, BGK, UOKiK or Bank Guarantee Fund to actually present what can be done here and how (the bell) to relieve borrowers. Each of these institutions said one thing: Speak loudly and encourage the use of the Creditor Support Fund. At this moment, the fund is waiting for the support of PLN 600 million. This amount may be increased if necessary. For its part, KNF, as a bank supervisor and its regulator, obliged banks to fully inform borrowers, those who meet or can meet the conditions for receiving support, that such requests may be submitted and that such assistance will be appropriate to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Szczepański to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u26	Minister! You didn't say anything that would be new. I'm aware of that. However, I have a question: tell me how many people have benefited from this support fund in the last two years. Do you even provide, for example, for the freezing of WIBOR or the payment of credit payments to people who are in difficulty today because, in a large part, this loan is not repaid anyway, only its repayment period is extended and the instalment remains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I answer questions. How many entities have benefited, of course we have such data, but it depends on the borrowers themselves. We can't force anyone to do this. If someone fulfils the conditions for receiving the aid that is offered to benefit from it, then the borrower's decision is needed here. It's a little bit like the 500+ program. Any person who has a child may benefit from it, but the State does not force it, encourages it, offers if it meets the conditions. We're not here for this. We can't talk everyone into it. On the other hand, what we should be doing, and this is what KNF, the BFG, does, we also encourage all banks to do so, is to inform borrowers about the existence of this fund. And here, I think, we agree that really social awareness of the existence of such support is low. We encourage you to use this. Here, the great responsibility lies also with the banks. We encourage you to do so. I don't think banks want mortgage loans to be unpaid either, so I think banks are going to do it. As to your question, are we considering subsidies, the subsidies are under the Creditor Support Fund. I don't get it. Do you want to replicate the solution that exists? That's what I'm talking about. Any borrower who fulfils the conditions I spoke of in response, in his first part of the speech, may apply for a payment of up to 2 000 instalments. Evil, so that such a solution at this point is. All you have to do is apply and use this solution. That's all we need here. As regards the very status of the Credit Support Fund, the funds in its account at 31 December 2021 amounted to 607 400 000. zł. This year we see a significant interest in the operation of this fund. By 31 December over PLN 20 million of support was paid. Let me rephrase that. In all the general cases you have said, 70%. the amount of the loan instalment in relation to its remuneration or 1 000. zł, which becomes a borrower after payment of the instalment of the loan, the borrower is eligible for the Creditor Support Fund. So that there's really nothing to create misinformation that there's no such help. She is, operates in Polish law and just enough to inform borrowers about the possibility of using this form. On the other hand, we, as a government and all the institutions of the financial security network, are also committed to informing borrowers about the possibility of using this form of assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u29	Thank you very much. The next question will be the information at which stage the recovery process for public funds spent on the purchase of ventilators is at. It shall be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Maciej Miłkowski will reply to the authorised Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. The first question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the second is by Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! With the awareness of the dramas that take place behind our eastern border, and the immense misfortunes that meet our Ukrainian neighbours, we as the Chamber, which also has supervision of the activities of the government of the Republic of Poland in its tasks, would like to return to a case that constantly upsets the Polish public and requires a concrete and precise explanation. Well, next week it will be 2 years since the Ministry of Health, which was then led by Minister Łukasz Szumowski, ordered from E&K from Lublin respirators, at the same time paying an advance of almost PLN 150 million. This company should never have obtained this contract. It was neither a company that operates in the medical industry nor, as it can be seen from the information available to bank analysts in general, it had any financial capacity to perform such a powerful operation. I would just like to point out on the basis of publicly available material concerning the financial situation of E&K that in 2019 the sales revenue of this company was only above 800,000. PLN and the amount of the transaction was to amount to PLN 200 million. The employment was literally two people to handle such a contract, and this company for several years, as it is said popularly, was going to loss, and it was very serious, which it counted off in the balance sheet for 2020, when it was able to get this golden shot with the Ministry of Finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask, at what stage is the recovery of the money which has been transferred to the company for the purchase of ventilators, which have only partially been delivered and which have not met the requirements and standards of the European Union for this type of equipment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u31	Thank you very much. The question has been asked, thank you very much. The answer will be given, as I said earlier, by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. I would like to respond very precisely, specifically, to the stage at which recovery is at, because the process is still under way. Well, things have really moved forward, and we are still working - the Ministry of Health with the Attorney General - and in this respect we are very successful, because, as you said, the contractor, the supplier, was unreliable in terms of delivery, as well as in terms of judicial proceedings, which he is trying to extend to a large extent, he is still trying to apply various methods of extending this procedure. As far as the main claim is concerned, the enforcement proceedings carried out by the Ministry of Health concerning 418 ventilators have been successfully completed, i.e. we have identified the ventilators that the company had - these are Bellavista 1000 respirators - in connection with the investigation of the principal debt from the unfulfilled contract. Among those 418 ventilators, 92 were CE marked, the remaining 326 were non-CE marking respirators, but with a CSA symbol that is used on the US market and Canada, so they can be considered technologically identical with 92 CE marked respirators. As a result, the State Treasury took over these respirators as a result of the enforcement procedure, accounting for their value on the amount owed to 12 540 thousand. zł. They have been subject to enforcement proceedings pursuant to Article. 46d paragraph. 4 Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and transmitted through the creation of a reserve at the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. There, this documentation of the strategic reserves is classified. At the same time, during the proceedings the bailiff took over the claim, the debtor's remuneration under the agreement concluded with KGHM Polska Miedź and on the basis of the attachment of this claim to the account of the Ministry of Health received a total amount of 24 586 679,43. zł and after crediting this debt and occupied respirators, the debtor is obliged to repay the principal debt of EUR 4 609 506 today, together with the statutory interest for the delay. In view of the possibility of ineffective enforcement against the company, it has become appropriate to pursue claims against a member of the Management Board. This is rarely used by state institutions, by private institutions, i.e. here it is from the private property of the President of E&K in accordance with Article. 299 laws - Commercial Companies Code. This is, like I said, 4609,000. EUR and interest for delay of EUR 52 946 per member of the Management Board. This procedure was preceded by a court order procedure conducted by the Public Prosecutor General, where, as I mentioned, the debtor showed great obstruction, but we obtained a final judgment. The bailiff is currently working, all claims are covered by the debtor from the amounts recovered. However, this amount may not be higher than 50 000. zł, as is apparent (Bingle) from the article on bail-in costs. The bailiff is conducting further proceedings. An additional 46 MTV1000 respirators have been taken and their values are being estimated. At the same time, the debtor tried to hide his assets. There have been many mistrials during this procedure. Therefore, we are still working. As far as contractual penalties are concerned, the court has ordered contractual penalties of EUR 3 641 140 together with statutory interest, because at first instance this was granted to us. The company cancelled and is currently in second instance, the case has not been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u33	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u34	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have already partially answered one of my questions, but perhaps, Minister, would we know the final amount of these penalties and interest, not broken down into individual elements? And the right question I wanted to ask you, Minister. I wanted to ask you about these proforma invoices. What standards exist in the Ministry of Health as to the choice of companies, they have already responded to it, but what standards do they have when it comes to paying advances on the basis of a proforma invoice? Tell me who does that in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u35	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u36	Yes, of course, the question is very valid. In accordance with all procedures relating to a high value, it should last 3 months, sometimes a year after cancellation. Therefore, the State's proposal is to start treatment for patients one year after the start of the epidemic. It was unreasonable not to treat for such a long time. This had to be done in other ways: speeding up the conclusion of contracts, speeding up the delivery of health services, because that was the requirement of that time. The conduct in all countries was similar in terms of ventilators. You know, you can analyze the situation at the time that the ventilators were one of the main elements that you were looking for, all the countries that had concluded contracts. Spain didn't get ventilators. Many products were bought for cash in China. So they did it a little differently. than we do. We made deals, we didn't pay, no one drove a suitcase of cash to China, just like many other countries. Our goal was mainly to secure Polish patients. We've done everything we can to achieve that goal. And to different extents, to the full extent We did what the hospitals wanted us to do, and they didn't have enough security. As you know, normally ventilators are needed in a large amount, but we did not know exactly how many of these patients would be additionally, how quickly patients would require treatment in the ICU, how quickly we would need ventilators. As it turned out, we never had the option of treating patients in intensive care, using ventilators. In this respect, the entire diagnostic and therapeutic treatment of patients was carried out and carried out. And there was a question -- I said it exactly -- how much money is left for today. Of the principal debt of EUR 4 609 506 and EUR 52 946,18 interest on that principal debt, i.e. the principal debt that is still outstanding today. Out of this, we have 46 MTV1000 respirators, whose value is currently estimated to decrease this value. At the same time, there is a proceeding towards a member of the board because we are looking for (the bell) additional assets. And the contractual penalties, which are in the second instance - EUR 3 641 140, as well as the statutory interest on this amount calculated from the deadline to the date of payment. We're in the second instance and it's not finalized yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u37	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, concerning the measures that have been secured for agricultural and livestock insurance payments. Minister Ryszard Bartosik will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. And the question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Chom.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Between 2011 and 2018, State budget subsidies to contributions from the titles of agricultural and livestock insurance contracts increased almost fourfold: from approx. 126 million PLN to more than 450 million PLN. Almost the same proportion of premiums due to insurance undertakings increased, i.e. from approx. 272 million to approx. 725 million PLN. In total, the number of insurance contracts concluded did not increase substantially during this period. In 2011, almost 139 thousand were included. agreements and in 2018 - over 165,000. This means that only about 12% the owners of the holding have concluded insurance contracts. In view of the above, many farmers, since they actually came to the parliamentary offices, reported problems with insurance, with those amounts that were not secured from the State budget. I have a question for the Minister: What measures have been secured for the payment of agricultural and livestock insurance for 2022? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u39	Thank you very much, sir. As I said before, Minister Richard Bartosik answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! For 2022, we spent PLN 1.5 billion on subsidies for agricultural production premiums. According to the statutory provisions, the farmer may receive aid for a contribution of 65%. Eight companies, insurance companies signed an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for over PLN 1400 million. These measures are sufficient to secure the need for all agreements that farmers want to conclude. The insurance is voluntary, but we urge farmers to cover themselves from all disasters: hailstorms, rains, droughts and other natural disasters. Eight insurance companies have made such deals. The measures for this year are sufficient. If these funds are not available - because insurance is implemented in the spring and autumn round - if the funds are not sufficient, we are able to guarantee that they are increased. This is the best form of protection against the effects of adverse events. Farmers are increasingly insured to secure their crops. This year has so far been negative in terms of rain, so that we encourage farmers to provide these insurances. Previously, these funds were insufficient, but now they are sufficient and the companies have signed an agreement for the amount they need, or 1400 million. We have PLN 1.5 billion allocated for this purpose. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Will Mr Choma be... Oh, Mr Telus, I'm sorry. Mr Robert Telus, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u42	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As farmers, we had such a problem that insurance companies often insured they were willing to pay for the risks they were facing and not to cover the risks that farmers cared about. We know there's been a new company called Agro TUW. Minister, this is a company that was somehow mobilized or formed with the Ministry. I'd like to ask her what kind of offers she's gonna have, I mean, what risks she's gonna cover. How will this Agro TUW company work? And second question. We know that we also have a problem in Poland with the universality of insurance. We know that not all farmers are insured or, nothing to hide, a small percentage of farmers is insured or a small percentage is insured for crops. My question: Will there be changes to the proposals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was such an idea that the farmer could immediately indicate that the agency would deduct direct payments from insurance. Is there work to be done in this direction, and will this be done? Because it's a good solution for the universality of insurance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please again, Minister Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Since this year, the Agro TUW Mutual Insurance Association has been operational. It was purchased by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Earlier it was the Post Office, and then the name changed to Agro TUW. It is a company that operates on a reciprocal basis, mutual insurance. It is in the hands of a state agricultural institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. In this way, we want to promote mutual insurance, because it is known that in this type of insurance, the farmer, in addition to paying the insurance premium, becomes a member of this company. He's an accomplice, and we want to spread it. This offer is very wide and applies to all adverse events. A great deal of emphasis is placed on droughts, so you can reach for this offer. Unfortunately, there's nothing more I can say because we treat all insurance companies equally. I don't want to talk about it anymore. On the other hand, the offer is available for all. As regards the second part of Mr Telus's question, we have amended the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, on the basis of which a farmer in the county branch of the agency can submit an application - and it is already in place - for the funds to cover part of the contribution to be deducted from direct payments. The farmer shall make such a statement, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture on the basis of an agreement and assignment which is submitted to the restructuring agency, deduct these funds from direct payments and transfer them to the insurance company's account. We hope that this will also contribute to the dissemination, as well as to facilitating the conclusion of insurance contracts for farmers, because this universality, especially in mutual insurance, makes these contributions, contributions and risks smaller and risks may be lower. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also encourage and encourage all farmers to benefit from the services of insurers who provide reciprocal insurance in mutual insurance companies, because then the farmer becomes a shareholder of such an association and can benefit from this too, because if there is not much of this damage, then the contribution in mutual insurance should be lower in the following years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer them. It concerns the implementation of plans to strengthen the air defence of the Republic of Poland. You will be the first question asked by Marshal Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ukraine is bleeding. Since 24 February, the civilian population has been bombed, as well as strategic objects of Ukraine. The whole world is solidarity with the fighting Ukrainians, but it also draws conclusions. Ukraine has no effective air defense. I can see that. Most rockets fired, artillery missiles, manoeuvring missiles hit their targets. Very often these are settlements in which Ukrainian citizens live. Neither does Poland have effective air defense, hence the question: How does the government plan to build efficient, effective missile, anti-aircraft defence? Are they considered... In March, in the end of March, the press reported that the Germans were trying to build the Iron Dome. It is an Israeli system constructed with the help of the American system, ensuring 90% efficiency. Last year, the effectiveness of the Iron Dome was confirmed. These press reports indicate that the system that Germany is building can also cover Poland, the Baltic countries and even Romania. We do not need to build this system together with the Germans. We can build ourselves, but we need decisions now. The programme is being extended, the programme is also being extended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have very effective anti-aircraft weapons, but very short range. She also works on the Ukrainian front. Question: "What about the Polish Iron Dome?" Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u47	Thank you very much. As I said before, you will be answered by Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The subject raised by Mr Grabarczyk is particularly important and important from the point of view of the security of the Republic. Taught by the experience of Russian aggression in Ukraine and these experiences beyond our eastern borders, we know that it is necessary to take very important, rapid action. It is also important to be aware that this will be costly. Once again, thanks to Members of all policy options for supporting the initiative to increase budget expenditure - 3% GDP for defence - and the adoption of a law on defence of the homeland, both in the Sejm and in the Senate, practically unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning of the rule of the United Right, we have taken and are taking all the steps that are strategic and crucial in this area. The construction of the Polish air defence system in all its layers, mainly based on the implementation of the programme, which started in 2018, and the framework agreement for the implementation of the programme, concluded in September 2021, is a priority in the area of technical modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The implementation of these programmes and the acquisition of equipment within them will not only provide the Armed Forces with the capabilities to respond to the threat of the modern and future battlefield, but will also translate into interoperability with other armies of the North Atlantic Alliance countries, especially the US military, the US military. Within the scope of the first phase of the programme, two Patriot rocket batteries are being delivered this year, and talks with the American side are being conducted very intensively at the moment and are linked to the acquisition of further sets for Armed Forces equipment. They're at a very advanced stage. It's too early to talk about the details, but I think we're gonna be talking about it at the National Defence Committee meeting. The implementation of the programmeReally also takes place according to the planned timetable. A procedure is currently underway to conclude implementing agreements for the acquisition of launchers and British CAMM anti-aircraft missiles, because this is a whole family of missiles. On the other hand, the contracting of all implementing agreements is planned to end in 2023 in accordance with the timetable. The situation behind our eastern border has a very stimulating effect on our actions. We are looking at the situation in our region. Very intensive measures are being carried out to enable partial solutions to be obtained in advance, at least in the near future, in order to increase the capabilities of the Armed Forces in the field of short-range systems. The construction of the Polish Air Defence System also includes a number of other ongoing programmes, including the delivery of anti-aircraft Pilica missile systems in the implementation phase under the 2016 agreement, in which two sets have been delivered to the armed forces from 2022 until now. The next four sets will be delivered in 2022 and at the beginning of 2023. The implementation of the December 2016 agreement is also ongoing, concerning the acquisition of portable anti-aircraft lightning rocket kits, of which the Member was gracious to mention that they are effectively used in Ukraine thanks to the donation of the Polish site. These kits are used by Ukrainians. According to Mesko's agreement, we are to have 420 launch kits and 1,300 portable missiles delivered for equipment as part of the first stage. To date, more than 700 missiles have been handed over, as well as 260 launch mechanisms, but I am already announcing (The Bell) that we will renegotiate this agreement with Mesko also in order to increase the number of launch mechanisms, as well as rockets themselves, so that saturation in the Armed Forces is significantly greater. Of course there are a number of other elements, Poprad and others. I hope that in the second part I will be able to say more about this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u49	Thank you, Minister. The second question is asked by Mr Czesław Mroczek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The need for effective air defense systems by our country was defined several years ago. In April 2015, exactly 7 years ago, the Platform and PSL government decided to choose an American offer to acquire a medium-range air defence system - patriots. That's when we said we needed eight batteries. It's been seven years and we don't have those batteries, because the PiS government has waited three years to sign with the Americans from 2015 to 2018, and instead of eight batteries, a contract was signed for only two batteries. Not much has happened at all about the programme. Therefore, it is not enough to talk today about the fact that we have saved programs, because if these programs are implemented as they have so far, we will not have a safe sky. The safe sky, as shown by the war in Ukraine (The Bell), is a key element of the security of citizens, residents and in general the security of the state. I expect the government to take decisive action on, firstly, the protection of our heaven by allies at the moment - and in this respect I would ask for a few sentences from the Minister - and, secondly, the acquisition of its own systems as a matter of urgency and urgency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u51	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we wouldn't have to argue about security and defense at least at this particular moment. [[But the facts, Minister, the facts.]] [[It's for mobilization, Minister.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The charge against the Government of the United Right that he does nothing or does little is absolutely false. This thesis is false from upstairs. It's exactly the same as with Bayraktar's unmanned air systems. Let me remind you, gentlemen, how disgruntled you have accepted the announcement of signing the agreement with the Turkish party, as you criticized at the meeting of the National Defence Committee of the Minister of National Defence in impudent words. [[You canceled the tenders earlier.]] And today there is no policy in the country that would not encourage us to speed up the purchases of the Bayraktars for the equipment of the Polish army, which already this year will enter the equipment. [[You guys delayed.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the area we are talking about today is concerned, if all the documents, all the analytical and conceptual phases that have been implemented for eight years under the Civic Platform, were completed to the very end, today we would be in a completely different place. Please bear in mind that the Vistula programme and the agreement concerning this programme are not the will of the Government of the United Right, Minister Błaszczak or Prime Minister Morawiecki, but it is a key element of Polish-American cooperation. It is the Americans who impose a formula on us and present opportunities for purchasing this equipment, which is particularly important in the context of air defense. After all, you are aware that the discussion with the Americans was ongoing and was also connected with the battlefield management system, ABCS, which is to be made available to Poland, the Polish army, as the first NATO country. The issue was also about the radar, because today's radar within the system has a range of 120. As part of the partnership with the United States, which lasted a long time, we did not inform about it, Americans practice with Polish soldiers in the ABCT formula in Drawsk Pomorskie, they also have Patriot rocket batteries at their disposal, so for a number of months, this equipment is present in Poland for a number of years. Today two Patriot rocket batteries are set up in south-eastern Poland, so this is happening. This is not enough, we are really intensifying the work related to bilateral cooperation (the bell) with the American side, because we want the equipment that we acquire to be of the best quality and delivered as soon as possible and, of course, at a decent price, because we need to be aware that this determines us very strongly. Safety above all else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, time is life.]] Absolutely, I agree.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u53	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Andrzej Śliwka. The question will be asked: first, Mr Andrzej Gawron and second, Mr Aleksander Mr Forczynski. The case concerns the establishment of the National Food Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Poland is a large and significant agricultural producer and currently appears to be seventh on the list of the largest exporters of agri-food products throughout the Union. On the other hand, the situation is crisis, there is a war behind our eastern border and there is a need to prepare for different scenarios. It is known that there may even be a risk of a lack of agricultural products in Europe or globally. We as Poland are rather safe because we have a level of agricultural production that meets our needs, but nevertheless the measures that need to be taken are intended to result in stable and profitable agricultural production, a stable level of prices. On the other hand, it is also necessary to consolidate the food market, because for farmers this stability is very important. Thus, the idea of establishing the National Food Group on the basis of Polish state-owned companies, which have state capital and operate in the agricultural sector, has recently emerged. I would like to ask the question at what stage is the process of setting up the National Food Group, because that is what this entity is supposed to be called and what specific objectives this entity is going to pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u55	Thank you very much. As I said before, Minister Andrzej Śliwka will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The creation of the National Food Group is the implementation of a project which is included in the electoral programme of Law and Justice, both in the rural plan and in the Polish model of the welfare state as defined in the last election programme. We are at the stage of finalising the process related to the construction of the National Food Group. As I mentioned, this is a priority project for both the Ministry of State Assets, which forms this group, as well as for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, with which we jointly implement the assumptions regarding public policy in this area. A word of comment about how this group will look, because it is important. The group will consist of 15 leading entities selected from the State Treasury domain, i.e. entities that are in the supervision of the Minister of State Assets, which were in the supervision of the KOWR or the Minister of Agriculture. The integrator of these 15 entities will be the National Sugar Company, which will include six segments: seed production, sugar production, starch production, the agricultural food processing sector and the grain and mill sector, where Elewarr will lead. As I said, these entities were selected from entities from the State Treasury domain. I would like to say that the analysis on the basis of which these entities were selected was, I can say, the most comprehensive analysis after 1989. Indeed, both these operators and the whole agri-food sector have been studied comprehensively. Therefore, the entities that have been selected have added value for the Polish farmer, but also business added value, which means that the functioning of such an entity will be based on tough principles, also business principles, as well as profit for shareholders, i.e. the Treasury, but also for farmers and growers. What have we done as part of this project, what have we done and at what stage are we at? We have received permission from the President of the OCC to concentrate these entities. We've agreed on all necessary agreements with the Attorney General. The necessary expert opinion has been obtained. However, thanks to state aid, the High House, we have managed to amend the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry, also with approval... I would like to say that at every stage this process was agreed with the social side, i.e. both trade unions: agricultural solidarity or the solidarity of the food sector, as well as with shareholders and growers, where we also listened. We agreed, and we treated our positions, and the conclusion was always that we could sign together what we stopped. We are at the following stage: yesterday, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin made a request to the Council of Ministers for consent to the transfer of the shares of the companies subject to consolidation to an increase in capital. We need the approval of the Council of Ministers in this regard. On 25 April, a general meeting of the National Sugar Company was convened, i.e. the entity that will integrate, on the basis of which the National Food Group - food holding will be established. On 28 April, it is planned to sign a contract to transfer shares in companies entering the food holding company. The first effects - because this is a frequently discussed subject, this is the question that is often asked - the formation of a group should be in some sectors... I would also like to say that this is a process. We are starting this process, but this is the first step in the right direction. The first results, both in the purely business area and in cooperation with farmers and growers, should be visible this year. As for the economic effects of the company... I would like to say that this company, according to all analyses which were carried out both in the Ministry of State Assets and by the chosen independent advisor who assisted the National Sugar Company and the Ministry on this project, should achieve revenues up to PLN 3.5 billion, i.e. by more than 30%. bigger than the ones that have been achieved so far by the National Sugar Company. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She'll be employing nearly $5,000. employees. If I remember correctly, 4700 people will be employed in the National Food Group. First of all, the economic impact will be that we will be able to diversify the activities of this company. With regard to the National Sugar Company, which is the component on which we build the National Food Group, in the current situation 85% production is sugar production. The Western trend is that you have to diversify, you have to have several segments, so that in a situation of some risk, a certain instability in a given market can be independent, based on several legs. This is a general trend that can be seen in energy, but also in other sectors: industry, agriculture. In view of the above, we would like to see some segments here. According to the first assumption 65% will be sugar production and 35% will be sugar production - production related to other segments, as I mentioned, i.e. grain and mill, starch etc. What for farmers and growers? This is important. First of all, as far as farmers and growers who are shareholders of the company are concerned, they can count on the increase in shares, which is obvious. The ambition of the National Food Group is to offer a wide portfolio of services to farmers, to growers in different areas, both as regards agricultural means of production, seeding and agro advice, which is important and to increase access to food platforms, which are also a development element. I would also like to say that the aspect, the motive that has been raised many times in many conversations, and on which both the government and the social side in fact agree - this is our ambition and the aim that we would like to achieve, and I hope that we will succeed - is to find a reliable partner with the Treasury's capital for the farmer. Recently, I had the pleasure of talking to farmers from Elbląg County or Bravsk County and they said they wanted this cooperation, for example. with Elewerr, they need this cooperation and expect that the state entity will be the entity that they will be able to choose. What's going on? We need to take action on investment, i.e. with a change in current infrastructure. A larger entity with more financial opportunities will surely be able to invest peacefully in precisely those areas which have been less invested so far. This will be very favourable to farmers who will finally have a reliable partner on their side. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u57	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you very warmly. activities towards the establishment of the National Food Group. I stress: national, Polish. Minister, please give these thanks to Deputy Prime Minister Sasin and the entire Ministry. Food production is a process consisting of many stages. According to the assumptions of the National Food Group, it is intended to pursue a simple strategy: from field to table, as well as comprehensively serve the farmer or grower, as the Minister said. Short question, Minister: What are the anticipated costs of setting up the National Food Group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u59	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the issue of costs, because this is the issue that has been raised, I would like to say that at this stage at which we are, we are carrying out this process on the basis of a capital injection, i.e. The option chosen is that the shares that will be issued, which will be covered by the State Treasury, and will be lodged, those companies that have been selected will be brought in by a fetch. Therefore, this process is cost-free. Nevertheless - and I would like to make this clear - we also have possible acquisitions in our ambitions that could complement this process. We hope that there will also be extensive cooperation with those who will be open to cooperation with the National Food Group - whether it will be cooperatives or whether it will be farmers' associations in any other way. We would like this entity to actually be the entity that treats its customers partnerly, i.e. farmers in this case. Indeed, if someone asks whether it would be good for this entity to cooperate more closely with a Polish farmer, we answer directly: this is the purpose of this food holding company and this is not excluded, it does not argue that this entity would also function in business realities, because the Polish farmer prefers to choose an entity from the domain of the Treasury, because he knows that this entity from the domain of the State Treasury will not apply, as some, some entities can, unfair practices, which, in a way, let's call it, uncompetitive distort this relationship, and also adversely affect, as regards the prices of products for farmers. Our ambition is to treat and cooperate with a Polish farmer in real terms - and that is what we have done so far. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is also addressed to the Minister of State Assets. This time, however, Minister Maciej Małecki will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. It will address the record margin and high profit of Orlen, as well as the issue of high fuel prices at petrol stations. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We remember the beginning of the war - big queues at gas stations, many gas vendors used the situation to raise the price quite strongly by then. At that time, Orlen's president was thundering, threatening to terminate contracts, that those who unduly raise their prices would have their contracts terminated. Today we can already address the situation we see in the fuel market. We all actually pay this huge price by refueling, but as reported not only by the media, but also by the Lotus Group or the PKN Orlen Group, the model refinery margin of the Lotus Group itself increased in March by 473% to $39 per barrel from less than $7 in February, while the Orlen Group - to $36 per barrel against less than $10 in February. That's an increase of 270%. Of course, this cannot be directly related to the price, but it shows how the war situation, on the one hand, also affects the price of fuel, and on the other hand, it is also used to raise the price, because before the war, this price of Brent oil was about $95 per barrel - this is the price from February 23rd - and now it is about $108-110 per barrel. So if you take all this into account, this price should go up. Of course, it must be taken into account that the share of this Russian oil has fallen, but this shows that this price should not increase more than 10%. , maybe 13% 5,50 PLN before the outbreak of the war on about 6 PLN. There's definitely more. These margins have grown quite strongly. It is difficult not to get the impression that war is absolutely used to improve financial results (the Bell) or the Orlen Group or the Lotus. There is something like this - Matthew Morawiecki said about it at the time on famous recordings from ZSowa and Friends - that war changes the perspective in 5 minutes, that these expectations of people are also smaller at the time of the outbreak of war. This is the situation we are currently dealing with. However, we have these prices clearly higher than the price increases of the barrel of oil would show. Of course, like us, we show information, we often hear from the rulers that, after all, I do not know, e.g. Germany is clearly more expensive. It is always worth mentioning how much for the average salary in Germany you can buy gallons of fuel at a gas station. So the question to the Minister is, are we dealing here with paramonopolists, as far as the wholesale market is concerned, or shouldn't there be more activity here when it comes to the state? I remember the gas conferences of Prime Minister Morawiecki with President Obajtek at the gas station. We haven't seen anything lately at the gas station. Maybe right now, at this point, this activity should be much, much bigger and much clearer. You're empathizing with the big result, the big profit of Orlen for the previous year. I think this is the best way to irritate consumers to irritate all those who refuel this expensive fuel every day - show the very high profit of Orlen. For this high profit of Orlen we all pay, paying daily at gas stations. But perhaps this large profit, which you are boasting about, shows that there is room for more active influence on Orlen or Lotus, so that these fuel prices at the fuel stations are significantly lower, because, according to the analysts of the fuel market, they should increase to about PLN 6 of PLN 5.50, not as clearly as we are dealing with it now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u63	Thank you. You will answer Minister Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an indisputable fact that Orlen made the biggest profit in the whole history in 2021 - and I am talking not only about the profits of companies of the State Treasury, but also about profits of any Polish companies. It is a great credit to the president of Daniel Obajtka and his team that over PLN 11 billion was earned by the PKN Orlen Group. However, in the next part of my speech, I must straighten out the information that you have given to the Member. I believe deeply that this is due to a lack of certain knowledge or knowledge of this market. Well, the Member was gracious to use the model refinery margin to assess prices at petrol stations. It's a complete shot, it's a shot. A bullet to the fence. [[It's not.]] For what is a model refinery margin? This is a comparison of a basket of products produced in a given refinery, i.e. gas oils, gasoline, to a basket of oil processed in that refinery. [[It's a margin... in that case.]] Until recently, the price of Russian oil was used to determine the model margin, because this oil was dominant, even though we regularly reduce the amount of Russian oil in our refineries. Now Orlen doesn't buy a spot completely Russian oil on the market. Orlen grounded Russian oil on spot markets. Today Russian oil in Orlena is only 30%. But in a model margin, this oil is the theoretical determinant. And a comparison: yesterday's Russian oil rate is $74, while the Brent oil rate that Orlen buys from outside Russia is $101. Besides, the price at petrol stations is not only influenced by the price of a barrel of oil. The dollar rate is affecting - I note that after Putin's attack on Ukraine he jumped - the price of biocomponents influences, the price of gas influences. These are the elements. Another false fact is that sales at gas stations have an impact on the fact that this is the construction of Orlen's result last year. Only 13% Orlen's result is gas stations, and it's not just fuel, it's the whole offer of gas stations, with shops, with gastronomy. 80% Orlene score, 80% operating profit PKN Orlen are petrochemicals, energy and refineries. This is a well-managed Polish oil company, which in 2021 made the biggest profit in history - over PLN 11 billion. Let me repeat: The Orlen Group are not only petrol stations, it is primarily petrochemicals, energy and refineries, and sales at stations are only 13% the entire profit of the Orlen Group in Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u65	Could the Members of the Law and Justice let the Minister speak? State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: The profit you made last year is the effect of fighting the fuel mob, which you didn't have the courage to fight when you were in charge... [[But VAT-Off...]] ...and investments made over the last six years. Orlen has invested almost PLN 20 billion in the development of all companies in the group in the last 2 years, and now it is percentage. One more thing. The result of Orlen that we see is a consolidated result. This means that the results of all companies in the group contributed to it. This is the effect of entering new business areas and a strong global position. Mr, you forget, you did not say that, but 50% Orlene score, 50% Orlen Group's revenue comes from abroad. Products from the Orlen Group reach 100 countries on six continents. That's something to be proud of. And any statements that we hear from the Civic Platform that Orlen is looting Poles, that is an absolute lie. This is also the promotion of misinformation activities against the Polish state. [[Yes, yes, of course.]] I wonder why this sudden activity of the Civic Platform (Bell) in attacking the war in Orlen in Ukraine, when you comment on the results of last year. [[We remember Kaczyński with a canister. Kaczynski and the canister we had.]] In this part of the statement, I'm going to say yes. In 2015, you decided to sell from the Orlen Group of OTP, the largest liquid fuel carrier in Poland. [[Lotus stations you're selling.]] Today bought back in April Ub. R. OTP is a guarantee of stable fuel supplies to stations during the war in Ukraine. Thanks to the fact that OTP was bought back, even in the first days of the war in Ukraine, in the first days of Russia's attack on Ukraine, when fuel consumption jumped by 400%, Orlen provided Poles with access to fuel. Another company is the leading oil producer, Orlen Oil. In 2013, the Civic Platform generated several million net losses, 16 million net losses. For 4 years, the company has been developing dynamically, producing profits that amounted to tens of millions of PLN in 2021. This is also a component of this record result of Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtek. In the last 4 years Orlen has also put on the development of technology companies, which in the times of the Platform, PSL were written down for losses. No one invested in these companies. Let me give you an example of another company: very well managed Orlen Project. Since 2018 it has achieved several hundred million revenues and has successfully participated in large tenders not only in the capital group PKN Orlen. And that's pretty specific. But you will never forgive President Daniel Obajtkowi... [[Palaces.]] ...and you will always attack him. You will attack President Daniel Obajtka for every result showing your disgrace, because for 8 years of government together Orlen has earned a profit of PLN 2.9 billion. So much for the president of Daniel Obajtek earns one... [[On the looting of Poles.]] [[...the price of fuel.]] Members, this is not the formula for this point. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: And please stop using Putin's attack on Ukraine... [[But it's hard to hold on.]] ...and high fuel prices across Europe to attack Orlen. Thank you. [[Bravo, Minister!]] The second question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Mishalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, at least 75% Your speech was completely out of the question. Let's go back to the numbers, this is yesterday's data. Specifically, a barrel of oil, yesterday's price -- $97 per barrel, the price before the war -- $92. It's a 5% increase. Next: the dollar rate you called for at the beginning of the war - 4,06 zł, now - 4.24 zł, increase by 4%. Actually, it's less than 10%. Gross price at the service station - 5,38 PLN increased to PLN 6.52. It's a 22% increase. And that's the 10%. which is responsible for the growth of your margins, and with these margins you praise on your own pages. Model margin, regardless of the nuances you give us, is a model margin. We know what it comes from - revenue and costs. Orlen's model margin on the website increased from $11 to $40 per barrel, an increase of 400%. The Lotus model margin, the Lotus you're selling to Hungary, to Putin's agents in Europe, rose from $7 to 51, which is 500%. You're saying prices are the lowest in Europe? They are not the lowest in Europe, because 3/4 of Europe earns better than Poles. In addition, companies pay net, so you make even more money on companies. The truth is that you ate the entire VAT reduction by increasing the margins that you are eating taxpayers' money, Poles' money, in a situation of enormous inflation, in a situation where you raise interest rates and instalments of loans are rising enormously, in a situation where prices of electricity, gas, rental, and war are rising. It's just outrageous. Then again Daniel Obajtek will boast of the record profit, just as he boasted of the profit for last year, built on the looting of Poles and high prices. What are you going to profit from: to purchase more media, other independent media like the Polish Press, or to pay the bonus so that Mr. Daniel Obajtek can build more palaces, which you will then release from the costs in the New Polish Łada? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame and shame on you for making money in the war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u67	You answer Minister Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to what the opposition wants, fuel prices in Poland are among the lowest in Europe, this also applies to countries whose inhabitants have income comparable to the inhabitants of Poland, fuel prices in Poland are the lowest. The latest data of the e-Petrol portal: for 1 l petrol average in Poland we pay 6.52 PLN, Lithuanians must pay 7.77 PLN for the same quantity, and Czechs almost 2 PLN more, or 8.44 PLN. Orlen keeps minimum prices at the stations, Orlen sells fuel at a minimum margin, but can't lower, because then it would be a violation of a competitive market and you would immediately run to Brussels or Berlin to spit on the Polish state again. On the other hand, Mr President, you have recalled that... Suddenly, you've become very concerned about Lotus. Let me remind you that your leader, your boss Donald Tusk, wanted to sell Lotus to the Russians, Putin. [[From the top]] You were going to sell Lotus to Putin. [[Did he sell to anyone? Who sold it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u69	Please, sir, just hold on. You too have exceeded the time of your question, and we have all waited patiently for you to complete your sequence. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[You're right, Mr. Marshal, but it's hard to stand for such things...]] Sit down, sir, and let the Minister finish his statement. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Putin and his aggression against Ukraine are responsible for the high fuel prices in Europe. Are you attacking Putin? No, you're attacking your own government. [[And you're selling Lotus to his buddy.]] Are you informing us that Russia has caused gas blackmail to increase gas prices across Europe? No. You used Putin's gas blackmail to attack the Polish government. You're using Putin's attack on Ukraine to attack the Polish government. [[A hopeless government.]] If Putin could choose how to attack the country that supports Ukraine the most, he would undermine the morale of the Polish army and uniform services, what you did, spit on Polish border defenders during the migration crisis. [[Applause]] Minister, please answer the questions. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: If Putin could choose to attack the government and undermine the democratic mandate, he could use your arguments, too. [[What about the fuel?]] If Putin could shift the effects of war and high fuel prices across Europe to the Polish Petroleum Concerto, your mouth could do so. [[We asked about the price.]] Once again, it is important to say strongly: Orlen makes record-breaking historical profits, but Orlen is the leader of the Polish transformation. These investments, which Orlen will implement, are: 140 billion PLN by 2030, decarbonisation, energy efficiency improvement, renewable energy development, capacity expansion in biofuels (The Bell), development in the area of recycling, building position in alternative fuels. Orlen is the leader of energy transformation, taking on the greatest burden in this area. One more thing, I would like to say that today Orlen deserves to be thanked for the great support of Ukraine's fighting refugees from Ukraine. Thanks to actions such as that of Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtka, Ukrainian soldiers who are fighting abroad can be sure that their children, their wives, their mothers, who have taken refuge in Poland, have better care because Orlen, alongside other companies of the Treasury, conducts such activities. [[But isn't that something someone's complaining about? What are you talking about?]] When the pandemic broke out, Orlen was first of all the ones who were helping in the COVID. Last sentence: you will never forgive President Daniel Obajtkowi that for 1 year he can earn more in Orlena than you can for 8 years. [[Tell him to return the palaces.]] Minister, thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: And again, 13%. revenue is gas stations, and the rest is well managed Orlen... [[At our expense.]] ...including the companies you were selling out, and you were planning to sell even... [[Stealing from the state...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will answer these questions by Minister Jarosław Sellin. The question concerns the Minister's cultural programmes aimed at funding project tasks. The question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u70	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am asking a question about a very current subject, especially for my area, so rich in monuments, including monuments included in the UNESCO list. There's a lot of tradition in my territory, so what I'm talking about is when these programs that I'm going to be asking about get settled is the topic. I think it's the most recent one. I would like to ask you about the programmes of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage in the field of culture aimed at funding project tasks. These include those entitled to do so, such as cultural institutions, non-governmental organisations, film institutions, schools, universities, local government units, economic entities, churches, religious associations, legal persons, but also as regards the protection of monuments, individuals who can submit applications and receive funding. They submit proposals for programmes that can be divided into different areas: artistic programmes, educational programmes, programmes promoting reading, cultural and historical heritage programmes and infrastructure programmes. There is a simplified selection procedure, and this can be done on-line very quickly. There are a lot of these conclusions. These programs are very, very popular. Already now I would like to thank you for all that you have done so far, Minister, Prime Minister Gliński and the entire Ministry in this area. But I would also like to ask, because many people, many actors, receive this, but also there are those who unfortunately do not receive what funds are allocated to these programmes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How did this funding develop in previous years? We could start from the beginning of our governments. I know which programs are most popular, but I'd like to know what it looks like from the ministry. Minister, which programs do you consider most important, most necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u71	Thank you very much, Member, for asking the question. You will answer this question by Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Thank you so much for that question. It is really about this part of the ministry's activity, which is the greatest, it can be said, popularity, because through these programmes, which the Member has asked about, we are simply responding to bottom-up signals as to the demand among cultural creators, among cultural heritage managers, of the need for support from the Ministry. We try to support the most important and valuable phenomena of Polish culture, both in terms of the development of particular sectors of creativity and care for Polish cultural heritage. The main financial mechanism for support is the Minister's programmes. They're called operational programs, but I prefer to say grant games, because it's more understandable. And they are meant for various cultural actors. Indeed, they are addressed to all the actors that you have mentioned, and this specific programme, which I will say a few more words about, i.e. the protection of monuments, also to individuals, because of the 80,000. registered landmarks in Poland some part belongs simply to private individuals. And we believe that they too have the right to resort to public funds so that the antique substance they own can be saved. The funding may cover both soft projects, and thus aimed at organising various cultural events, as well as support for the development of infrastructure designed to carry out cultural activities. More specifically, I would like to say that 34 operational programmes are foreseen for this year. It's usually quite a constant number. Thirty-six programs are announced every year. The total budget foreseen for all these programmes is a record in the history of the Ministry this year, exactly PLN 452 million, so we are slowly approaching the amount of PLN 0.5 billion per year that we are distributing under these grant programmes. To respond specifically to the question of what was the starting point at the time of our inclusion in 2015, I would like to say that in 2016 we found a budget after our predecessors for these grant programmes of PLN 293 million, so over these few years the spending on these programmes increased by PLN 158 million, or 54%. For a limited period of time, I will mention only some of these 34 programmes, perhaps the ones that are most popular. Of course, this programme, which you have also mentioned, is most popular, i.e. the protection of monuments. This is the largest of the Minister's programmes in terms of both the budget and the number of proposals submitted and supported. Only as part of the first recruitment, and we have two recruitments per year, only this year's first recruitment received almost 2000 proposals, and this year's overall budget of the programme amounts to over PLN 200 million. That's almost half of all the resources we have for all the operational programmes. This 200 million PLN in this programme means more than double the increase in relation to the beginnings of our governments, when the 2016 budget for monuments provided for less than 94 million PLN. This budget is being gradually increased to 200 million this year, because the protection of monuments is undoubtedly one of the priorities of the Ministry. In addition to caring for the protection of monuments in Poland, we also take care, and in the context of current events, it may be important and I will mention this, to protect the Polish cultural heritage outside the country and to disseminate knowledge on this subject. We have a special programme to protect cultural heritage abroad, we have a specialized institution established 5 years ago, i.e. The National Institute of Polish Cultural Heritage abroad, we have a programme of the National Memorial Site abroad, i.e. the restoration of cemeteries, war graves, graves of famous Poles located outside the country. This is what we do with these programs. Other programmes worth mentioning are e.g. Folk culture and traditional culture. It is a programme aimed at supporting the preservation of cultural traditions at local, regional, nationwide level in both rural and urban areas. The new programme created by us in this area, but whose operator is our National Centre for Culture, is the programme that strengthens this area of cultural activity. Of course, the music programme is a very popular programme. We try to support all interesting phenomena, concerts, music festivals that take place in Poland. Actually, no significant music festival in Poland takes place without support from this ministerial program at least in part. The budget for this programme is PLN 24 million. Literature programmes are also very popular programmes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are also trying to support institutions belonging to local authorities in the field of culture. This one is dedicated to, for example. Home infrastructure programme culture. Like I said, there are 34 programs, each one of them I could tell you in a few minutes, I only mentioned a few. I would also like to say that in general this year, almost 14.5 thousand programmes have been submitted to all 34 programmes. conclusions. We have already decided to finance 2600 applications for the amount of PLN 316 million. The rest of the money will still be spent under the so-called. appeals and by way of second calls, which are in some programmes in a given year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u73	Thank you very much. Very interesting information and certainly Barbara Bartus has additional questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u74	Of course, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very, very much for your answer. Thank you for everything the Ministry is doing. And since this is effective, I see in my field, and what is the interest, then also after the number of applications - 14.5 thousands. conclusions and everyone very important. When I talk about these issues, I often hear that the proposal of a particular subject is the most important, because it has a very strong justification. And that's $14.5,000. applications already submitted. Minister! You were actually talking about the most important programs I've ever encountered in my territory. It's all about interest. But I want to ask you about this 34th, I suspect, program, because in the ub. The year was 33 programs, and this year the Polish Sejm established 2022 Year of Romanticism and I know that for this reason there are additional programs which the Ministry introduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a few words about it. But I would like to draw attention once again to the monument protection programme, because, as I recall, in 2016 there was 93 million for the protection of monuments, and this year it is going to be 200 million or more than 200 million. This is a significant increase. I also wanted to ask if there's a general understanding, for example, when you go to the finance minister, because it's very big money, almost half a billion, and in our society we've become very consumer and focused on it... Does culture have confidence, does it have recognition, and is it easy for almost half a billion PLN to be found in the country's budget for a given year for a given culture, for grant programmes, because that is all we are talking about? Thank you. Thank you, Marshal, for the opportunity to ask the whole question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u75	Thank you very much. We ask Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u76	Indeed, Commissioner, we are talking about this at a very interesting time, because in general the proposals for individual programmes are submitted by the end of the old year. In general, individual programmes collect conclusions by the end of November. The examination of applications must take some time due to their quantity and they are considered in January, February. Usually in February, and in March they are announced. Now we have a time when we see even in the ministerial press, also carried out at local level, to publish articles on how much money has gone to individual districts, municipalities, specific cities for specific cultural projects and specific monuments. It's nice to read, it's really nice to read. The morning reading of the newspaper is very nice at this very time. The Member asked... Because we also try to react, since we, the Sejm of the Republic, announce patrons of a given year or any event in a given year, try to respond flexibly and announce a specific program dedicated to such a patron or such event. This year, among others. The Sejm decided that this year would be the Year of Romanticism due to the 200th anniversary of the announcement of Adam Mickiewicz's first poetic book on Ballads and romance. In the history of literature it is recognized that this is the symbolic beginning of Polish romance in literature. That's why we announced the Ballads grant program and romance, that's exactly what it's called. We want to finance from this program various artistic projects: literary, theatre, musical, dance, art, visual arts, publishing, educational initiatives carried out both in Poland and abroad, directly referring to the history of Polish romanticism. Really in this respect There's a lot going on. We have a lot of interesting proposals in this programme both in Poland and abroad and we will make decisions about funding as well. Once again, the honourable Member has taken up the subject of antiquities protection. Here on the government's leadership level, sensitivity is really high. First time in the history of the Polish government Minister of Culture He's been in the rank of Deputy Prime Minister for seven years now. There's never been anything like this before. This already strengthens the position of cultural policy in the government in general. But I must also say that our prime ministers, both Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on this subject are also very sensitive, very often asking and declaring support. E.g. last year, please pay attention when we had this big budget revision, because it turned out that there were additional funds to spend in the second half of the year or in the autumn it was decided to fund our National Monument Protection Fund, i.e. outside of this grant programme - such a fund we have - the amount of more than 80 million PLN in addition to the monuments (The Bell). So that in addition to the large amounts that I have already mentioned, we were able to spend this 80 million PLN. So here sensitivity is great, also thanks to your activity, thanks to the activity of Members - because I also see it on a daily basis, and in conversations with you, and because of the various recommendations or incentives you make to take an interest in a specific monument from your region. This program is actually very expensive, you can define it that way, and very popular. It seems to us that it is simply extremely important, because Poland's monuments, you can say, stands. Foreigners, when asked why they come to Poland at all - such research is conducted - it is more than 70% of them answer that for cultural reasons. Very often you go to some tourist countries because of the beauty of nature. Poland also has a beautiful nature, but foreigners reply that they come for cultural reasons. They want to explore cities, monuments, want to participate in cultural events and this is the main motive of their arrival in Poland. This indicates something, so we must care for the beauty of these monuments, their renewal, their renovation, and of course we are trying to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u77	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Minister Waldemar Kraska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer these questions. It concerns compulsory preventive vaccination of children residing in Poland in connection with the war in Ukraine and the rules related to their implementation. The first question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u78	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ukraine is one of the less vaccinated countries in Europe. Although vaccinations are mandatory for 10 diseases, many people do not want to vaccinate their children. The UNICEF vaccination documents in Ukraine state that people forget about vaccinations against other infectious diseases due to pandemics. A few years ago, an epidemic of measles appeared in Ukraine. The National Hygiene Institute assumes that most of us have already had contact with the virus, but what about uninsulated young children? Children aged 13-15 months are vaccinated against measles in Poland. Worse still, we have a disease that has long forgotten, namely polio. There have also been cases of pertussis, which in Poland was a common cause of death in children under 1 year of age before mass vaccination in 1960. In connection with these cases, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine called on adults to remember routine vaccinations according to the vaccination calendar. In the present situation, however, it is difficult to expect anyone to have a head for it. According to UNICEF, in 2021 the rate of vaccination of children in Ukraine was slow. In the first half of the year. Only 38% of six-year-olds were vaccinated against polio. However, this subject cannot be a cause of fear or hatred of refugees, but let us treat it as a medical problem. I would not like to be told that we are at risk of a pandemic because citizens from a less developed country are coming to us, where the level of health protection and vaccination system is weaker than in Poland. That's why we have to deal with this problem in some way. Hence my question: What measures and programmes (The Bell), and by whom will be implemented, will be implemented in order to equalise the level of eruptions fleeing to our country from the war of Ukrainian citizens to the level of eruptions in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Minister Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From the beginning of the conflict we were aware that a lot of children and young people will come to Poland and so it has happened. Today it is more than 750 thousand, so we introduced the possibility of free vaccination of children and young people who are staying in Poland due to armed conflict in Ukraine. Each child has the right and the possibility to start vaccination or continue vaccination which has been carried out in his/her country, in this case specifically in Ukraine. If the child has not been vaccinated in Ukraine or if the parents do not have such documentation, because it is sometimes destroyed during the escape from war storm and is not present, they should seek medical attention as soon as possible. Because of the age of the child, the doctor will have to determine what type of vaccination to do and he will determine the vaccination schedule that should be continued for this child and which is valid in our country. This will of course be the most frequently performed by POZ doctors and it will be the doctor who will decide which vaccinations and when to start them. In Poland there is an obligation to immunize. Vaccinations shall be provided by the Minister of Health and shall be free of charge. The vaccination calendar includes tuberculosis, hepatitis, rotavirus, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliomyelitis and pneumococcal vaccination as well as Haemophilus influenzae type b, measles, mumps, rubella and varicella for children who attend the nursery. We know that young people from Ukraine will also be staying in these places, i.e. day care, kindergartens or schools, so these vaccinations are very important. If a child was born in our country and such births are taking place at the moment, more than 200 young Ukrainians were born in our country, the child enters this calendar, which is valid in Poland. These vaccinations are already carried out on the spot, although our information shows that unfortunately we have Ukrainians do not want to vaccinate these children at the moment. For twenty born children, only two have been caught on tuberculosis, and we know that the problem of tuberculosis in Ukraine is quite large. That is why we also started an information campaign so that before birth I could reach out to these people, to convince the Ukrainians that, however, these children would vaccinate and not simply discharge them at their own request in order to avoid these vaccinations. So that's what we're going to do right now. As far as vaccinations are concerned, they will be called. vaccination. This will be coordinated by the Chief Health Officer. These vaccinations will be performed mainly by POZ. Of course, some kind of identity card will have to be presented so that simply a doctor or health care professional can enter the person's name. A vaccination card will be issued. On 29 March, the NFZ, the President, issued a regulation or order which sets out the conditions under which it will be paid for the performance of these benefits. This first visit, which is the visit during which the interview is conducted, is the longest visit. Your doctor will determine what vaccinations have been carried out, what calendar needs to be implemented. This will be valued as advice at the level of 108 PLN, and already every next visit according to the vaccination calendar will cost 48 PLN. I think these are pretty good stakes. I hope that this will actively encourage, especially POZ doctors, to vaccinate Ukrainian children, because we all care about this very much. If we look at the epidemiological situation that is currently in our country, because we are monitoring it, we have not seen any major outbreaks or an increased number of infectious diseases of children's age. Yeah, for example. in the period between 1 March and 15 March, 26 cases of pertussis were reported, while in the same period last year there were more cases because there were 37 of them. We also noted four cases of measles, which is also the same as last year. So we don't see that this number of refugees or these children at the moment is causing an increased number of cases of infectious childhood diseases. No case of poliomyelitis or diphtheria or tetanus has been reported. We also offered vaccinations against COVID-19, i.e. for children older than 5 years of age, as well as for adults. At the moment, only 25 000 have benefited from the whole group of refugees from Ukraine. persons. When it comes to vaccination against childhood diseases, these are individual numbers. The action that we are starting with the sanitary and epidemiological station at the moment will, I think, be the action that will allow a quite large group of Ukrainian children to be born. We're gonna want this to happen. not only in POZ (the bell), but also some action activities will be carried out at those big places where we are staying with children at the moment, i.e. these are the big places, e.g. in the Torwar, where these Ukrainians live a lot. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by two Members. The first question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Płonka and, secondly, by Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u82	Minister! I am such a practice that meets the Ukrainian children in the clinic. Indeed, we have a mandatory vaccination system and are recommended every year to be modified according to sanitary testing and expectations, as well as predictions. The chief health inspector announces any new recommended vaccinations or mandatory additions each year. Here's the question. Children of all ages reach us, we do not have any data about these children that have been vaccinated, especially since Ukraine actually has a completely different disease prevention system. Question: "What should we do about Ukrainian children?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we know that in our children's case, each year has different vaccinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u83	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u84	Dear Marshal, Minister! Thank you for this detailed information on the vaccination of children of war refugees from Ukraine. It is very important that society is fully aware that these children are subject to the same vaccination programme as Polish children. We know that the vaccination calendar talks about vaccination of children up to the age of 19, i.e. not only small children born in Poland or several years old, but also children up to the age of 19. In the Polish vaccination system there are also (The bell) vaccinations for people who are particularly at risk, i.e. medical students, health care professionals, veterinary services workers. And here's my question: Will these social groups also be included in the compulsory vaccination programme, which results from the Polish vaccination calendar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! These are indeed rather detailed questions, but I will try to answer them. First of all, if a child goes to a doctor and actually doesn't have this medical file because she either hasn't been taken or has been destroyed or parents don't remember what vaccination the child had, then we treat the child as if it hadn't been vaccinated. Surely the greater risk is not to vaccinate a child, how to vaccinate them again, so here is the recommendation of experts that we then act as if this child had not been vaccinated. This is obviously the age of the child. The decision after the examination and after the interview, of course, is made by the doctor and he will be the one who will set the vaccination schedule on his first visit. This calendar is of course the same calendar as in our country, so these children will be vaccinated. Here, of course, we should act very actively to convince society, we have Ukrainians to vaccinate. When it comes to the level of implantation against the coronavirus, it's 35%. The anti-vaccine trend, which unfortunately is also quite high in our country, is very strong in Ukraine. In view of the large number of refugees at the youngest age, we should take this very actively and we will do so. I think it is very important that we also - and we want to do this - run Ukrainian doctors, because it is through a doctor who is of the same nationality, speaking in the same language, it will be very important that we convince these vaccinations. The second question concerned groups of special risks, i.e. medical students or others. They will also be subject to the rigour of this vaccination, as we want vaccination to be mandatory for people working or studying in those places where there is an increased risk, for example. hepatitis. These vaccinations will be carried out free of charge for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed to the final point. The question will be addressed to the Foreign Minister. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk will answer these questions to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will address the introduction by the European Union of a fourth package of economic and individual sanctions in response to Russia's military aggression against Ukraine. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On Thursday, February 24, Russia's attack on Ukraine began. Russian troops attacked in several cities of Ukraine. There was an attack, among other things. in Kiev, Kharkov, Mariupol, Odessa. The President of Ukraine called on citizens to defend the country. Russia started a war. This is not the attack we expected as European citizens. People are terrified because nobody expected a war in the 21st century at the centre of Europe. Minister! Seeing the commitment of the ministry, government and prime minister, the narrative changed in relation to this tragic situation of the world, for which I wanted to thank you very much. The Poles passed the exam once again, the Humanity exam. As you are negotiating, talking in the international arena, I have questions to the Minister: What sanctions have been imposed? Are they sufficient? And does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs see the possibility of taking any other action to bring peace to Ukraine? All Poles, Europeans are concerned about the fate of both Ukraine and Poland, but also the whole of Europe. It may seem that another part of Europe can live peacefully, but it is only a matter of time. Minister! I ask you to provide us with information, because you are doing a lot of things about mitigating the situation (the bell), but it is also about a situation that may occur. What other solutions do you have to bring peace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u89	Thank you very much. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! To answer the question, I would like to point out first of all that, in view of the ongoing escalation of the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the crimes committed by the Russians, there is a need for further strengthening of sectoral sanctions against Russia, but also Belarus. The restrictive measures adopted by the Member States since 24 February, i.e. since the day of aggression, have been unprecedented, but unfortunately, as you can see, this is a practice, and we know this from the information that has come to us in recent days, not strong enough to get the Russian Federation to change its behaviour. The existing sanctions included, inter alia, financial issues, the extent to which goods and technology may be exported in the defence and security sector, the freezing of Vladimir Putin's assets and Sergei Lavrow's assets, the prohibition of entry into the Union and the freezing of assets of members of the National Security Council of the Russian Federation and members of the Duma. There is a ban on flights over the European Union for Russian aircraft, a ban on transactions related to assets and reserves of the Central Bank of Russia and Belarus. On 2 March, in coordination with the United States and other allies, the European Union excluded seven Russian banks and three Belarusians from the SWIFT system. In addition, the broadcasting and dissemination of content within the Union of Sputnik and Russia Today has been suspended. The fourth sanction package adopted on 15 March introduced a ban on new investments in the energy sector, limiting exports of equipment, technology and services to the Russian energy industry, with the exception of the nuclear industry and the energy raw materials transport sector. Moreover, a ban was imposed on transactions with a number of Russian state-owned companies and the provision of any rating services to Russian entities. Further tightening of export restrictions on dual-use goods, restrictions on imports from Russia of iron and steel and a ban on exports of luxury goods to Russia were also adopted. In addition, the list of entities subject to individual sanctions has been extended. It is about 15 people and nine entities - mainly from the machinery and weapons sector. The harmonisation of Member States' activities within the World Trade Organisation has also been agreed. Russia has been deprived of its highest preference. The existing sanction packages, although indeed unprecedented in the history of this type of policy pursued by the European Union, according to both the Polish government and the governments of other countries of the region, are still insufficient. Poland is firmly and consistently seeking to extend sanctions in many areas, including financial ones. We postulate, for example. the separation from the SWIFT system of all Russian and Belarusian banks. As far as the energy sector is concerned, we are proposing to block exports of coal, oil and gas from Russia. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we are calling for the suspension of road transport between the European Union and Russia and Belarus and for a ban on Russian units entering European Union ports. We are also working to impose further individual sanctions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly presents well-founded proposals from persons and entities supporting the Kremlin. The proposals in the vast majority are accepted by the other Member States. Our justifications, including their substance, are very well assessed by the institutions of the European Union. However, sanctions as part of the Union's common foreign and security policy require the unanimity of all Member States. The far-reaching sectoral proposals of Poland are actually hindered by the abstinence of some countries, including the Federal Republic of Germany, which try to push through a number of exemptions or derogations during negotiations on individual solutions. They are also in favour of setting transition periods for the application of specific solutions. At the last European Council, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented his position. He demanded that further serious sanctions be imposed on Moscow. Poland is one of the countries that have proposed and are still proposing to impose the most far-reaching sanctions in order to cut the flow of funds to Russia's budget. Prime Minister Morawiecki proposed a new package which included: road transport blockade, export and import of goods - with the exception of humanitarian goods - which are transported to Russia through Poland, Lithuania and Latvia and Estonia (Dawn), full embargo on Russian oil, coal and gas, exclusion of the possibility of Russian statists being admitted by European ports, ban on Russian propaganda in the European Union, suspension of visas for Russians and the exclusion of Russia from international organisations. The next fifth package of sanctions is currently under negotiation in Brussels. According to Poland, the project presented by the European Commission, although it implements some of our demands, including the demand to end imports of coal from Russia, is still insufficient. The key issue is to end Russian oil and gas exports to the European Union as soon as possible. Poland has tabled far-reaching amendments to the legal acts presented by the European Commission and the European External Action Service. We do not agree to include too many exceptions in the project. Together with other countries, we will seek to limit them to a maximum. We are positive about the proposed ban on Russian ships being hauled into European Union ports and the ban on goods being transported within the European Union by Russian carriers. Our demands in this area go much further. We support the imposition of further financial and individual sanctions on politicians, oligarchs and their families, including members of the Russian President's family. We are counting on the formal approval of this package by the European Union in the coming days. It's breaking news. High Izbo, the arrangements adopted tonight - the outcome of the negotiations - made sanctions unacceptablely diluted. A number of exemptions have been introduced, such as: exclusion from sanctions of Russian oligarch yachts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. The second person asking the question will be Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As the Minister mentioned, Poland is the leader, perhaps the wrong word, is a country that encourages the European Union to impose sanctions. We are meeting with various, as the Minister mentioned, interests of different countries, which make these sanctions not so severe for Russia. Well, given that we are members of the European Union, I must say that the introduction of sanctions by one country, Minister, is missing the goal. All countries need to work together. I have an additional question, although you have already partially answered it. What are the other options for imposing (the bell) further sanctions on Russia that caused this war? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u93	Thank you very much. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! As I have said, in our view, the most important thing is to undermine the financial bases of Russian aggression against Ukraine by preventing Russia from raising funds from oil and gas exports. These elements are crucial. This is the most important part of Russia's budget revenue, which comes from international trade in goods. Indeed, this project is being blocked by some countries. However, I would like to point out that countries take the prospect of moving away from energy raw materials from Russia one at a time. That's what they did. Germany. There is a very long time horizon here, but we are still negotiating with our partners to make this time horizon as short as possible. We cannot introduce individual, single state sanctions, for example. by closing the Polish border for freight traffic, for two reasons: for formal reasons and for practical reasons. This is not possible for formal reasons, because this issue is covered by the European Union's common commercial policy, and the European Commission's consent is required for this kind of step. In other words, if we introduced such a one-state, independent decision banning the carriage of goods across the Polish border, it would be a violation of EU law. On the other hand, I would also point out that this would be impractical because if we closed the border ourselves, the goods would go through Lithuania or Latvia to the European Union, and then, also through Poland, from these countries would continue to the west of Europe. It is essential that the European Union make a joint decision in this regard, because only then will this have a real impact on the Russian economy. But I'm going to go back to what I said at the end of my speech. We do not yet know how the negotiations will end, but at night such opportunities were introduced to circumvent the ban on the carriage of goods that in fact this ban will not work. Unfortunately, as the Member has pointed out, this is a matter of unanimous decision by the Member States. Introduced e.g. requirements to exclude certain companies - as it happens - from European countries - from banning the transport of goods. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u95	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the Ministry of Education and Science's assistance in the continuation of education by children of refugees from Ukraine, including the teaching of Polish language in primary and secondary schools, as well as the continuation of studies at Polish universities, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the current situation in Ukraine on 12 March this year. a law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens has been passed in connection with an armed conflict in the territory of that State. The rules introduced are an extension of existing regulations, and their aim is to facilitate the training of Ukrainian citizenship pupils in Polish primary and secondary schools. At this point it should be emphasized that, in connection with the aggression of Russia on Ukraine, Poland has so far adopted around 2.5 million refugees, including children and schoolchildren, as well as students. According to information available to the general public, several hundred thousand children can come to schools. At present there are about 147 thousand. students in primary schools, 23 000 children in kindergartens, 9,000. High school students and 2,000. tech students. Therefore, the great challenge for the state as a whole, i.e. central structures of the state, voivodships, local governments, NGOs-s, uniform services, etc., is to ensure the basic conditions not only of residence, but also of continuing learning in Polish schools and Polish universities. The best form of inclusion of Ukrainian children in the Polish education system is the creation of preparatory branches. The addition of Ukrainian children, who do not speak Polish, to classes with Polish children could create unnecessary stress for them, and for pupils of this class unnecessary increase in these classes in terms of number of pupils. I am convinced that the greater benefit for the children of Ukraine will be to educate them in their environment. The Ministry of Education and Science has prepared information for parents and people taking care of children from Ukraine with special educational needs and directors of Polish educational system units, as well as a number of other solutions, for which I warmly thank Prof. Przemysław Czarnko, Minister of Education and Science, and his team. I would also like to thank you for the measures taken in the Council for Refugee Education. As far as I know, today was or is still a Council meeting. Therefore, the question arises as to the creation of an appropriate infrastructure for learning Polish for young refugees from Ukraine, together with the determination of the costs of this project. As far as the cost side is concerned, I have regard to fixed costs, salaries, rent of educational rooms, educational materials, etc. Cooperation with local authorities is an important issue in the creation of such infrastructure. A separate issue is the question of the continuation of studies by students from Ukraine, as well as Polish students studying in Ukraine, who would like to continue their studies at universities in Poland. At this point we should ask whether students, Ukrainian citizens who are in Poland will enjoy similar benefits and similar rights to social benefits as Polish students. By showing solidarity with the Ukrainian people and creating for children and young people from Ukraine, as well as students, Ukrainian citizens, learning conditions, I would like to stress that aid measures must not interfere with the educational process at the Polish school or at the Polish university. Therefore, I stress once again that the great challenge for the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, as well as the Minister of Education and Science Prof. Przemysław Czarnek and his team, was to take such measures that children in Polish schools despite the humanitarian crisis, despite this genocide, which is the participation of Putin and his army, could continue to learn peacefully, prepare for exams, Matura, etc. In summary, in accordance with the Article. Paragraph 194. 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on behalf of the applicants I ask the Minister for Education and Science to provide information on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the applicant said, it is an important assumption that we have adopted in the drafting of legislation to allow this mass of refugees to adapt to the Polish education system that is not to violate the conditions under which Polish children learn. Hence, first of all, there are regulations that have been regulating the education of foreign children for several years, but so far they have regulated situations where there have been very little of these children. It was a $1,000 scale. or 2,000. people at the Polish school. Now we're dealing with a hundred and tens of thousands. According to recent data, it's almost 74,000. persons enrolled in schools and kindergartens, of which the vast majority to primary schools. A much smaller number problem is, at least for now, the issue of students from Ukraine. That's less than $3,000. So you notice that these are incomparable figures. Therefore, in the Polish education system at this lower level, in cooperation with the local government, we have prepared additional regulations that make reception of children of refugees more flexible. That's why, among other things. already in the specialty concerning refugees from Ukraine, as well as in the regulations issued by the Ministry of Education and Science, there are provisions on the possibility of increasing the number of pre-school and I-III units. At the moment we are preparing a regulation that will allow for an increase in the limit from which the division into groups begins, if there are children in such classes... [[Voice from the room: Can I hear you louder, Minister?]] [[Voice from the room: You speak very quietly.]] [[Voice from the room: A little louder.]] Maybe I'm too tall, and the microphone is adapted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u99	Minister, indeed, we would ask the Minister to speak a little louder. The room, as you can see, is disciplined and everyone listens carefully. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: Okay, okay, okay, okay, I'll try to speak up. We have prepared rules which already in the specialization, and also now in the regulation allow the creation of larger preschool branches, classes I-III, if there are Ukrainian children there, as well as an increase in the limit from which the division into groups begins. This is prepared in the latest regulation. I also agree with the rapporteur that the best solution from our point of view and from practice is the creation of preparatory branches, i.e. branches in which children from Ukraine learn Polish mainly, but also have the possibility to integrate with Polish children, because we enable them to conduct part of the classes together. Such activities, where this knowledge of the language is not necessary, are e.g. gym class. Since there was a problem, how to classify and evaluate these children, we recognize that children admitted to primary branches should be treated just as much as Polish children, because the director, teachers considered that these students could learn in primary branches. Those who study in preparatory departments do not know the Polish language, do not fully implement the framework curriculum, may not be classified and may receive a certificate at the end of the year, in which it will be included. information about the scope of the content that was implemented, how many hours of Polish language were there, how long these people attended the preparatory department and what level of their knowledge of the language is. If teachers believe that this is possible, they can be classified in the same way as Polish students. In cooperation with local governments, we liberalize the possibility creation of so-called new locations, i.e. in new buildings, not only in schools that so far exist, because we expect that in some municipalities these buildings will be insufficient to accommodate all children. We are liberalizing regulations that will be a little more milder than in typical school buildings. We facilitate the creation of preparatory branches as inter-school, inter-school, and here the intention of local governments depends on how they will be created. We also provide funding. Ukrainian children entering Polish branches, the basic ones, are financed on the same principles as Polish children. In preparatory departments they have additional importance, because it will be a slightly larger expense connected with the help of a teacher, with the employment of a person who can communicate in Polish and Ukrainian languages. We do not lay down any formal requirements to hire such a person, apart from knowledge of the language. They may also be Ukrainian citizens. We also make it easier to hire additional Polish teachers, removing a one-and-a-half-job barrier and allowing teachers to return to classes in schools with Ukrainian children. Refugee students at Polish universities are admitted on similar terms as Polish students. Today they can be transferred on the basis of the transfer of recognised qualifications, and within the university there is a check at which level they should continue to learn. To answer the question about this material, helpful sphere, I would like to say that these students use the same powers as Polish students. Besides, students can also receive benefits, as can Polish students. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak again? This is the moment. If not, I close the list of people willing to ask a question. There are 44 people. In order to remain within the regime set by the Rules of Procedure, I set the time to ask a question for 1 minute. I'm opening a discussion. You'll be the first to speak... [[One and a half.]] [[One and a half.]] One and a half minutes. Mrs Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u100	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The war has been going on in Ukraine since February 24. Mostly children, women, run away from this war. In Poland we already have more than 2.5 million refugees. Poland accepts, as it was said here at some point during today's debate, these refugees as a family. After all, we know that most of us are aware that Ukraine is also fighting for our sovereignty, for our independence, because we do not know what would have happened if Ukraine had given up very quickly. Children reach Poland, the Minister has already said that over 170 thousand. The children are in our education system. Unfortunately, in Poland many people are also beginning to question the meaning of care, the sense of help, all the help, including the outrage that maybe education can't handle it. I would just like to say one sentence on this, how important is what the Ministry of Education is doing to receive these children. Quote Fr. Professor Waldemar Cisla, who at the conference organized in Tarnów, the Church against refugees, pointed out that in previous immigration crises, what was most difficult (the bell), was not to develop children, to leave them to themselves, and that of those children who did not have a school obligation, then criminals often grew up, that it is very important that children still have a school obligation. Thank you, Minister. I would like to thank you, Minister Czarnek, on your hands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u101	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Mrs Gabriel Masłowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u102	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! In view of the need to help with education for Ukrainian children, we know that there is also a possibility for children from Ukraine to benefit from their home education system remotely, which would greatly relieve our education system. How do you assess the percentage of parents so far declared their participation in such a remote education system, and how do you estimate the scale of such declarations in the future? That would also give us an image of the responsibilities ahead of us. I think that modeling on the British system and creating preparatory branches is a very good idea, because children have the opportunity to enter the new education system, so far strangers, use free Polish language learning and also use books. Here, thank you very much that the Ministry of Education has even made sure that Ukrainian children can use books to learn Polish, which are on the website of the Ministry, free of charge. They can be adopted to learn Polish. So I think it's a great system. Please tell me what percentage of local governments are interested in entering the preparatory branch system, because my knowledge shows that there are quite a lot of resistance that local governments or school heads prefer to push their children into general classes (the bell) rather than to create these preparatory systems. Please tell us how it spreads territorially, e.g. in Lublin region, what is the desire of the heads of schools and local governments. As we hear today, such branches can be created between schools and even between local governments. That would, of course, relieve the school and there wouldn't be any problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u104	...pretentious parents that the quality and conditions for Polish children will deteriorate. Thank you, and I'm so sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u105	If we pass time, there is a risk that not all Members will speak. There you go, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the idea is that Polish children and Ukrainian children should guarantee good education, education according to their needs, education according to their expectations. Therefore, Minister, a flexible evaluation system is needed, trust is needed in teachers, school heads, so that they can decide whether it is possible to promote the child to the next class. Today is a rigid evaluation system. Today, the director or teacher of Polish language cannot give an evaluation, can't promote a child who doesn't speak Polish. After all, this adaptation period is needed. This child can be perfect in mathematics, physics, chemistry, while the fact that he can't speak Polish can't be a barrier at first. That is why we are calling for a flexible evaluation system, for the trust of the directors. And a reminder, Minister. You remember 2006, then you could introduce an amnesty because your M.A. went wrong (the bell) and you were worried about the voters. Today I call on you to take care of Polish and Ukrainian students and to make the evaluation system more flexible, because this is what the directors are waiting for, and that is what teachers are waiting for, and that will solve the situation of students in mass classes and preparatory classes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u107	Once again, the risk of time being exceeded is that not all Members will speak. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u108	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask how the continuation of education for children from Ukraine with specific limitations, disabilities, difficulties and special needs will be organised. Foreign country, foreign environment, ignorance of Polish language are already a specific problem, and additional restrictions certainly do not facilitate this. Will special conditions be created and will these children be able to benefit from the support and systemic assistance guaranteed under our education care? And the second question: Will local governments receive certain resources under this support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland, will ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll refer to the information I've received. You mentioned the legal basis for the admission of pupils to primary and secondary schools, but you did not say much about the legal basis allowing Ukrainian students to continue their studies and studies at Polish universities. You said that such conditions were guaranteed, but my parliamentary office was informed that they were not for everyone. This applies especially to those students who do not speak Polish and are forced to take courses run by most Polish universities in English. It turns out they're expected to pay a couple thousand dollars a semester, which is today the equivalent of about 10,000. PLN and even more money. I have therefore spoken with representatives of several universities both in my constituency and in Warsaw, and I have heard that the best solution would be to introduce into the law on assistance for Ukrainian refugees, which you mentioned, a provision stating that Ukrainian students can exercise the same rights as students from European Union countries. This would, of course, be an emergency, but it would allow students who, as I said, cannot continue their studies in Polish (Dzinek) and are therefore forced to study in English, to study in this language from the first year, and not only in the case of continuing their studies and for money, which we should not expect from those who are victims of war and genuine refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u111	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u112	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! After the last meeting of the Education Committee last week, I visited several schools and collective bedrooms that are in my city, Gdynia. I've talked to teachers, directors, ILOS employees, the faculty of education, and I've only got three -- so far only three -- because there's not much time -- specific questions. The first issue concerns education subsidies and the costs to be incurred in teaching the children of Ukrainian refugees. It is specifically about how the subsidy will be settled, whether it will be maintained what the Minister said at the meeting: a person month in accordance with the algorithm that was adopted and when the money will be. The second issue is a technical issue related to the teaching of these children. We have adopted such a standard that we have Polish, English and second language as an additional language, e.g. German, French, Spanish, they don't have it, so there's a hint that perhaps the Minister's regulation simply exempts them from this extra language requirement, because they finally know Ukrainian. And the third question, concerning the learning of the Polish language. We know perfectly well that they are not able to learn Polish enough in the course of the year, for example. they could have passed their Polish exam. Is the Ministry considering introducing a summer school system? That could really help them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u113	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to raise two points. The first concerns the combination of on-line learning, which is conducted by schools in Ukraine, with lessons in Polish school. I think it is clear to everyone that the contact of children and young people with their peers is extremely important, so staying in a school between Polish peers would certainly create, I would say, a positive, if even possible relationship in this situation. On the other hand, Minister, it is sometimes the case that lessons at Ukrainian school take place at the same time as classes at Polish school. Does the Ministry see this problem - I am talking about this, referring to discussions on this subject at home in the region - and intends to regulate the situation in some way so that Ukrainian children, young people, are not somehow removed from Polish schools? The second question concerns the issue of financing, which is of course a very important aspect. I ask the question whether, in addition to this rate for a person's month, the Ministry also intends to assist local authorities with other measures which would be designed to prepare for the specific needs of Ukrainian students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u115	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u116	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 40th day of the Russian invasion is already taking place in Ukraine, and because of the war activities, more than 2 million Ukrainians have found refuge in our homeland from the nightmare of war. Even a few hundred thousand students from Ukraine can go to Polish schools. Minister, I therefore have a question about the education of children and young people from Ukraine. What is the scale of teaching in the preparatory departments of children from Ukraine today, and why is it so important for the Ministry of Education and Science to set up these preparatory departments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u117	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I must say that I agree with Mrs Masłowska that one of the forms of education that should be preferred and made available and supported is remote education in Ukraine. That is why I would like to know how much the Ministry of Education has undertaken talks with the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, so that all children who are in Poland and who have participated in education even in those schools which are currently in areas where there is simply a war and where education is not conducted, allow education in this formula. I would also like to know how much the local authorities will financially help to prepare this type of science in an organized way - in the sense that it will be in the rooms where the equipment in which the desks are located, so that those children who have come here often without any equipment can continue to be able to continue their remote education, but also to communicate with each other. Students of older classes have a remote education that allows them to complete a specific school stage without additional language and system-related trauma. Let's notice one more thing. From what I hear from the Ministry, it appears that the Ministry wants to fund those children who have entered this basic education, without passing through the preparatory classes, a double trauma: the trauma of war and refugeeism combined with the trauma of not being classified into the next class. Note that these children are very often unable to cope with these requirements that are present. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Other solutions should be applied to them. I would like to ask if the Ministry is planning this, but above all what financial resources will be available to help local governments create organised remote education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u119	I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u120	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I, in turn, would like to know what the situation of refugees, young people who are educated in their profession is like. Can they, first of all, continue to practice as part of the training of young workers in Polish employers? Because if we look at the regulations, the Labour Code and the Council of Ministers regulation on the professional preparation of young people and their remuneration, they are clear: the teaching of the profession lasts from 24 to 36 months, no longer and no less. There is a very important question for these people, because I get such signals that there are really big problems with this. Can the time for the admission of professions in their home country be taken into account and will it be taken into account here in Poland? Will the regulations that I referred to be amended so that those who escaped from the war to Poland from Ukraine, who had already learned a particular profession, can continue this teaching in Poland? Because at this point they can't, because when they go to specific places, they hear: we can sign a contract, but only for 24 months or only for 36 months. What if someone's a few months away from finishing their career, to enter the labour market, to become self-emancipated? This is a very important issue. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u121	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of Mr Czesław Siekierski, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! After all, we have been dealing with the presence of Ukrainians in Poland for several years. Each year, there were also full families, so there were children. They were already included in the educational process, so there was some experience, as they were incorporated into the educational system. So you should already have some observations that you're probably using right now. What's the scale? Are there really solutions that can be implemented and implemented in some way? That's one thread. The second theme is the openness of universities. There's no problem here, because universities have experience in it. There are very many students from just Eastern countries, including Ukraine. On the other hand, I am interested in the problem of whether there is a system for the employment of refugees who are scientific workers. It is about using their knowledge, skills, their research, to implement them into the system of Polish science. It's just a transfer of know-how. There are areas where Ukrainian scientists have great achievements. I think we need to create an employment system (the bell), additional finance, because just institutes should hire them. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u123	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u124	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Teachers and teachers are heroes. They remain faithful to their mission despite the drama of recent years, despite the strike, despite lex Czarnek, despite scandalously low wages, despite the double yearbook, finally despite the pandemic, and now despite the war. Therefore, two questions related to the implementation of this mission. First: When will there be concrete guidelines on whether and how to qualify Ukrainian students, in particular those who are starting school now? Two months left by the end of the year. How do you judge these children? What kind of sermon should we apply to their progress in science? Second question. Today, Ukrainian psychologists and psychologists need to nostril their diploma to work at school. It's taking and costing. There is already the possibility of hiring such people in clinics without the nostrilization of the diploma. It seems worth introducing this possibility also in schools. One of our educational experts uses a graphical comparison regarding the problem of child qualifications - no one checked the boarding cards on the sinking Titanic. Today is a time to help, selfless and unconditional. It's worth remembering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u126	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With great respect and appreciation, I refer to the extremely efficient activities of the Ministry of Education and Science in adapting Polish educational institutions to accept and allow to continue learning such a large number of Ukrainian students and students. I am fully aware that this is not an easy task, because it is necessary to adapt and reorganize a system that has never collided with such a challenge before, and this must be done without prejudice to the Polish teaching system. And I also know that a significant proportion of Ukrainian students and students in Poland want to continue their remote education, which takes place in Ukraine, but as you know, this requires the availability of appropriate equipment. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the joint initiative of the Ministry of Education and Science, Polish Post and Digital Union, aimed at equiping Ukrainian students with remote learning equipment, has produced the expected results and whether all Ukrainian students and students will have access to remote learning facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I pay great tribute to both teachers and the whole school community: local governments, students, parents for their excellent reception of children and young people from Ukraine. It's a great effort of our entire society. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask you questions about, first of all, how the issue of Matura is with people from Ukraine. Today we know that seniors will probably be able to take their Matura exams, so says the Ukrainian Ministry of Education - in Ukraine, where there is no armed conflict. Question: "Which stage are the discussions on how this Ukrainian Matura for those who will pass it can also apply in Poland, and how will the rapid path of the document look like?" Second question: What does the program look like at least for months and years? Many points out that at least 20% of this youth, which is already in Poland, will be in Poland for another year. How are we going to adapt or expand, enrich our program of teaching history, literature or knowledge about society? It seems that this is the moment when you can also think about such actions. The third question concerns adult education. Minister, in order to be able to integrate people into the labour market and life in Polish society, it is necessary to educate adults, to teach them Polish language. Self-governments and people of good will can't handle it. If we want Poland not to be a dropout. pl, it was just a Polish thing (the bell), it had to be done with another important action. Question four. We get signals that parents, guardians of children from Ukraine get documents that cause children to be automatically enrolled in classes of Polish religion, that is, Roman Catholic religion in Poland. We have these signals from the teachers, we have signals from the catechists. [[That's not true. It's impossible.]] Minister, what does it look like? And the fifth question. School is a good place to promote vaccination, especially those vaccinations that are mandatory in our vaccination calendar. I would like to ask the Ministry what measures it is taking to promote vaccination and to protect the health of refugee children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The voters from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, including entrepreneurs, asked me for help in opening up questions from the Minister about the possibility for local governments and educational entities to obtain grants and funding for the organisation of professional Polish language courses for refugees from Ukraine. Ready for the rapid organisation of such courses is reported both by public schools and by non-public bodies involved in the statutory organisation of different forms of education and training. In the area of the cities and municipalities of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship there are now a lot of people who have escaped repression from Russian troops and who, for many months or even years, will not be able to return to their homes. In order to ensure employment opportunities and social inclusion, language courses must be organised for these people, both basically and professionally. Infrastructure needs to be created. Polish language courses are also necessary in the case of students from Ukraine who went to Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship to universities, because the language barrier not only hinders education, but also creates unnecessary stress and deepens the trauma associated with war and separation with loved ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Minister, I'd ask for an answer in writing. I'd be very grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, I would like to thank Mr Mosiński, who warmly presents the project on behalf of the club, for taking care of the issue of education. [[Applause]] I think that it brings us all together because the adaptation of children and young people, students, those families that have arrived is a task for all of us. We have also seen how many good hearts Poles and various institutions have shown in this matter: from self-government to government. Therefore, I tried to ask the local government what problems or difficulties they were in, what they would like to change here. Education is one of the basic issues that they raise. According to representatives of local governments, teachers adjust work rules, work cards and exercises, develop teaching methods in different classes, especially where students do not know the language. However, there is, of course, the question of this exam in Class VIII. It needs an explanation. The Minister has already talked about this matter, but I think that local governments must have a clear, clear interpretation on this issue. Local governments are already asking about the perspective of the new school year. What's gonna happen since September? What are the rules? These answers are very, very necessary, and I am not talking about financial issues, which are, after all, fundamental when it comes to the implementation of these tasks. The second thing I would like to mention here is the question of the separation between what is the task of the self-government and what is the task commissioned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! Can I just finish this? Why? There are no general guidelines in the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens and this makes it very difficult to interpret. There is, for example. a statement that a one-off allowance and psychological assistance are assigned tasks, but for other tasks, such as feeding or feeding children in cafeterias, there is no indication whether it is their own task and whether it should be financed by aid funds or only by local funds. I will refer the matter to the government so that the catalogue of the various, so to speak, the question of interpretation is clarified, because it is also important from a budgetary point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are currently hosting refugees in Poland, and these refugees are mainly women and children. This is a very difficult situation for them, and for us it is a great challenge. I wanted to ask the Minister if local governments are willing to create points, preparatory teams, or if there are any problems. What does it look like in primary school, in high school, in kindergartens, are there any difficulties, very difficult moments when you have to intervene? Because at least on my territory, it looks like it's going through relatively smoothly in primary school, but there are problems in secondary school. From this place I wanted to thank all volunteers from all over Poland and local governments, because really in a situation when people from Ukraine came to us, who had a big problem, a great distance, great tragedies, we showed a great heart. It is good that during these difficult times Poles behaved properly. Let me quote the classic: have a heart and look into the heart. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Are you an MP? There isn't, okay. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is. Welcome. At least I'm welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we need to thank ourselves, as Poles, for our open heart, but we also need to thank teachers and school heads for sacrificing themselves and trying to help children and young people from Ukraine as much as they can. But that's not all. Minister! Preparatory units are very much needed because in my constituency and in my district, in secondary schools these branches are, worse is in primary schools. I don't know, maybe local governments can't communicate with each other to form inter-city units, there's a dilemma here. I would like the Minister to tell us what the amounts for these preparatory units are, what is the difference and how you can combine weights, between 51 and 50. I would very much ask for information, because I think that not knowing some local governments, what the situation with these scales looks like, causes that they do not form preparatory branches, only young people and children from Ukraine put in Polish classes, where the rhythm of science is disturbed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I would ask for such information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the school allows children to forget many problems, and the children and young people from Ukraine lets them forget, first of all, the war and the trauma they are going through. So it is very important that children and young people can participate in classes in Poland in as many as possible. However, we must remember that schools suffer from a lack of money, a lack of teachers, appropriate qualifications, or just such an ordinary organisation of the work of the school year, but also of the future. Local government officials, school heads, teachers, and, finally, and perhaps above all, Polish students are very good at receiving and caring for children and young people from Ukraine, but at the same time local government officials are concerned about how to provide education for refugees without straining the status of Polish student. Money and specialists are mostly needed to organize the work well. Additional funds are needed for the creation of preparatory branches and the employment of teachers, and it should be recalled that in April the process of planning and creating organisational sheets will begin and, consequently, the future budget. The directors therefore appeal: there is a need for legislation that will first and foremost harmonise the rules for the admission of teachers from Ukraine to work and, of course, additional money. Finally, I would like to ask: Minister, do students from Ukraine have student status according to Polish law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very important, for example, because of your scholarship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about the situation of children from Ukrainian families who live in Poland, but found themselves in the village where there are smaller schools. However, most of them stay in cities, but also in those who have already worked here, they go to these people. There are slightly better housing conditions and therefore these people are in the countryside, but density varies. There are areas, for example. Sadistic, where people from Ukraine worked quite a lot, so there are quite a lot of children there, while there are areas where children are relatively few. Of course, this is associated with considerable problems for education, for schools that operate, especially rural schools, very often small schools. It's a good thing these schools stayed and we have some kind of buffer. I would briefly ask, Minister, for information on what is happening in connection with this (the bell) large diversity of schools, that there will be a lot of children in one place, in the other place few. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u142	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I would like to say that we appreciate the work of local governments in terms of taking care of students who came to Poland from Ukraine. We greatly, greatly appreciate and thank Polish teachers. [[Applause]] But you are in charge and you are responsible for what decisions you will make in Polish schools when it comes to teaching children from Ukraine. That's why I have a few questions. Why do you think the preparatory teams will be better for these children than joining the normal troops? I had conversations with teachers and school heads from my constituency and they say, for example, that when it comes to younger children, they are very quickly assimilated with their Polish colleagues, they learn language very quickly and they would not be better prepared for them at all. That's one thing. Secondly, how much do you pay for your child's stay in the preparatory department, and how much do you pay in the normal ward? For example, local government officials are convinced that they will receive much less money when it comes to preparatory teams. Next questions that are born when it comes to the eighth grade exam. As far as the Polish language is concerned, there are very many questions here, and there is no special answer from you. There's one more thing about the senior exam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are your suggestions for those students from Ukraine who will pass the exam in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u144	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice, as well as the Ministry of Education and Science, have faced a difficult task at the moment in terms of teaching children from Ukraine. But we're doing great. I'm just gonna give you a heads-up, Mr. Minister from my Pocket-Cichan district. A colleague was just here, a Member who is also from this district, and she spoke. I have positive insights. Both Polish teachers and directors approach the question of teaching Ukrainian children in a very universal way, and we discussed this with the Minister at the committee meeting. Preparatory classes, yes, are necessary where there are a large number of Ukrainian children, and if there are small rural centres, schools, then teachers' staff and management are perfectly able to teach such a child without a preparatory unit. Then this integration is much easier. Therefore, at the press conference, which was here in Warsaw, I encouraged (Dzwonek) Ukrainian mothers and children to live in such small communal and district towns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the most difficult situations, the children who should take the eighth grade exam, and the children who should take the exam. Let's start with graduation. There are several possibilities... Or maybe not. However, I will start with these eighth graders, because not long ago such a small one said: I am as good in mathematics and even better than my Polish colleagues. And that's the truth. These programs are comparable and such a student can easily pass the math exam even in Polish after holding the instructions. The only problem is Polish. Is this where the compensatory classes are needed? Or should we use a simple method used worldwide in Polish schools, such as Saturday school, where it would be necessary to compensate for what is needed, namely Polish language? As far as seniors are concerned, the Minister knows it well that the Matura is given in various languages in Poland, in English quite often. Why should it not also be taken from Polish literature, for example in Ukrainian, but in some time? I mean, there's an amendment deadline in August. Of course, no one can make up for the Polish language program by August, but couldn't you make such an annual vacathio legis for the Polish language, for the seniors and issue them a certificate (the bell) so that these children can... Just a moment, Marshal. ...to walk in normal mode? It is unacceptable to say one of the ministers - I will not quote the name - that there is no need to pass high school, there is no need to go to high school. No need, but if you want to, the system must be flexible, and it is the duty of the Ministry to set it up so that these children do not feel at the level of the exam that they are children of war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With over 700,000. children who today escaped the war in Ukraine and are in Poland, most of the... [[Ukraine.]] ...and it is said that even 2/3, will remain for some longer period or permanently in Poland. I would like to ask about this more far-sighted direction, how the Polish education system will adapt to these new conditions and new challenges. Second question. All - Poles, Polish state, organizations, local governments - we help refugees. Of course, it is glorious, it deserves great recognition. On the other hand, there are also Ukrainian students who were already in Poland before the war, here they studied. Today they are very often cut off from any funds from their parents, unable to pay tuition fees and simply do not have the funds for their current maintenance. Does the Ministry also provide any support for those tens of thousands of Ukrainian students who study in Wrocław, Krakow, Warsaw, Opole? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very nice words are falling down here today, very beautifully we are talking about how society and local governments have managed in a situation when we are hosting Ukrainian refugees. [[Applause]] My question is, when will the ministry start dealing with this, and when will the government start dealing with it? The two most important words that my previous speakers and my previous speakers have already said are flexibility and finance. As I hear Minister Czarnek speaking in public, he says that there is no reason for Ukrainian students who have been with us for a month or for two months to take a Polish exam - well, a little easier for them to do this exam, let them give it - I might as well propose today to the Minister to go on a trip to China for a month before graduation and let him speak Chinese He's giving his high school degree in Chinese literature. I think it's great. [[Applause]] I have a question. Perhaps that's what's going on, that's what I'm asking the Minister, and he's gonna answer me right now. Are there talks with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education? It's where the SATs are prepared. What is the problem with organizing it flexibly with us, so that these young people can take their exams in Ukrainian from Ukrainian literature and learn Polish using time? But for God's sake, Lord Tadeusz will not learn at once. And the money, the other thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When and what money will be paid? Today, preschool troops are expanding, adding children to these branches. Today we really need money for new psychologists, employed now, for educators, for teachers of Polish language understanding Ukrainian, so that these children can help in times of great trauma, not to give them another. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much that Ukrainian students can go to Polish schools, they can learn at Polish universities. With us in the Lubachów district 78 students already go to school - to high school, to primary school. But before the Russian-Ukrainian war there were students in secondary schools. They're having some trouble paying for the boarding house right now. Will there be any help for those students who have already studied in Polish secondary schools and now have serious problems paying for boarding school? The second issue, also very important, concerns psychological assistance. We know that we have few psychologists, and we do not have prepared psychologists with Ukrainian language, and it is above all psychologists with Ukrainian language that should help children and young people. Could it not be possible to use those psychologists who are on the Ukrainian side, abroad, to use their potential in this direction so that psychological advice can be provided online? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u154	Minister! The 15-year-old Vitali cried when the school principal, the glottodydactik, told him that he would have to take the final exam in Polish. The fact that director Marcin Smolik, director of CKE, does not understand that a Ukrainian who does not speak Polish, cannot write a discourse and cannot take Polish language from several dozen Polish readings, I understand, he may not know. But you have to understand that. Those rules need to be amended. You can't mentally abuse children and teachers because they're helpless right now. And now I'm going to tell you why this Vitali didn't go to remote teaching. Because at the same time at this small school, where there are 14 children scattered around all branches, a future girl who mom moved because she was depressed after months of remote learning in Ukraine. Now in a small rural environment isolated, again remote - it is impossible. Self-government needs money. How much did they get on the textbooks? Where are the textbooks, Minister? If these students are part of Polish education, where are the free textbooks, where are the textbooks for teaching Polish language? You can't see that. The ladies who worked took a job (the bell) had to quit because they didn't have babysitting. What does that mean? It means that we need money to feed, for the day-care, for the new preschool wards. It's all necessary. Question: "How much money has come?" What are the probation officers doing? How do they instruct? What's it like working with local governments? The government wants to, but it's high time we got this money, information, and specific expectations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The system created by the Ministry of National Education, by the Polish government is flexible and it is simply necessary to use this system more wisely. It is difficult to accept such a situation that one accepts a class of students who do not speak Polish at all. For those students... [[Then make wards for three children, five.]] You just have to make reasonable decisions. That's why these preparatory units are here. [[Where did the teachers come from?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Don't insult intelligent people.]] In Wielkopolska more than 11 thousand entered the classes. young people from Ukraine, while in preparatory units there are only 2.5 thousand. 155 preparatory units were established. There should be more of them, but that's what local governments decide. And if local governments don't form these preparatory units, unfortunately, we have such a problem. Local governments are now demanding financial resources from the government, as if they couldn't make any financial effort to help young Ukrainian students to help refugees. It can't be that it's just waiting for the resources from the central budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Why don't you come from the European Union?]] Local authorities also need to understand that helping the Ukrainians is a necessity of the moment. That's why we need to re-evaluate local government budgets, look for resources... [[...in the pocket of the government.]] ...so that these problems can be resolved on an ongoing basis, because the Warsaw Minister will not. This is unfortunately the task of local governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We just heard a question that amazes us, and the answer is very simple. Why aren't local governments organizing prep teams? Because they don't believe the government. They do not believe that the government will give specific money that will secure that these branches will function. If there are four students in such a school, and the ratio goes that it is not really enough to cover the costs associated with the operation of this branch, then when the government asks for compensation, of course it will not get that money. And the government is constantly being oppressed by this government, its influence is being reduced all the time, its tasks are being increased all the time, and funding is getting smaller and smaller. And that's normal. Self-government does not need to be taught about help, because it is the local government that is on the front line and at the moment the most helping refugees together with volunteers. There's a deep bow. Just as deep a bow to the teachers. Except the teachers were left alone at that moment. The question is, what does it look like to help teachers in the sense of additional education through special courses, by preparing, even on-line, for those who have never taught foreign-speaking children to start teaching Polish. The local government of Wielkopolska voivodship is currently preparing a combat diagnosis, conducting a special survey in all schools and wants to diagnose what the demand and problem looks like. Question to the government: If such a report is created, will the government lean over it and in relation to the demands made by the local government of Wielkopolska Voivodeship respond positively? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u160	Minister! Please consider changing the name of the Ministry to the Ministry of Education in liquidation (Applause) And it's not about the ministry, because maybe it would be good, given who and how he directs Polish education, but it's about education. Do you, Minister, even know what one of the biggest problems of Polish education is? [[Voice from the room: I'm sure...]] No teachers. [[Applause]] Do you know that in many Polish schools, which Ukrainian students are increasingly enrolled in, more than half of teachers are teachers who have pension rights and are entitled to the compensation allowance they intend to benefit from because they have had enough? Are you going to solve the problem of Polish school and teachers with 4% increases? These embarrassing and humiliating increases of Polish teachers, which, I will remind you, are very low, given that in Poland we are dealing with record 12-percent inflation, perhaps 15- or 20-percent. [[You haven't raised your wages in three years.]] [[And you're gonna have two.]] Do you have any idea how to solve the problems of Polish schools when three or four times as many students from Ukraine already on September 1st? Will these students fit into Polish schools? Do you think about funding the expansion of schools, perhaps, I don't know, the construction of new schools, e.g. container solutions? What happens on September 1, if he joins Polish schools not a few tens of thousands like today (The Bell), but several hundred thousand? Are you guys even planning on doing anything about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank all teachers, parents, school directors very warmly, but also students for their extremely warm and cordial reception of their friends and colleagues from Ukraine. Thank you very much for that. A very large group of children and young people from Ukraine will be staying in Poland. Today is just a matter of time before it's tens of thousands, whether it's a few hundred thousand. No one is able to learn Polish well within a few weeks. So, Minister, a few requests for you. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, you have to trust teachers today, you have to trust teachers, you have to trust school heads. So we need to introduce a more flexible system for assessing students. Second of all, we're about to have a vacation. I told you that a large group of children and young people will stay in Poland. You have to use this holiday on different types of language semicolons. You also have to remember about adults. At my office I started learning Polish for refugees from Ukraine. He's very interested. I believe that this should be a system solution funded by the government. And one last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What financial resources did the Polish government ask the European Commission to support refugees from Ukraine, and what money has the Polish government so far received for this purpose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the Ministry for pointing out two possible paths of continuing learning for the children of Ukrainian refugees. The first is the implementation within the framework of the so-called. Preparatory units, second in existing branches. This first path, I'd like to draw attention to, this is 40% funding. to grants for one student. I would also like to thank the local authorities for their far-reaching cooperation, but above all to schools and teachers. Question: "Does the Ministry have feedback on the scale of selected paths?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is the biggest challenge facing Polish society, the challenge of true solidarity, therefore huge thanks to all teachers, school heads, also students who welcome their friends and guests from Ukraine. Hence the three questions. Firstly, if it is true that the vast majority of Ukrainian children have learned remotely, I ask and request to ensure that, with the help of the government and local government, they supply their children with computer equipment, give the possibility to continue education in a remote system, and specifically in the Ukrainian system. This is a huge challenge. We have dozens of schools with computer studios, there are opportunities for children to continue their education, but also to have the opportunity to care for a Polish teacher. Secondly, when it comes to education, often when children come to Polish students' branches, teachers are completely unprepared. Exactly the whole integration policy is needed, i.e. education and integration of children into the system, completely soft competences, not just grades, because there are many, many problems. Teachers simply do not deal objectively with this, so criteria are needed to include children in the Polish system, just to help them during the first weeks. And that's the last thing I wanted to say. Who invented, Minister, that the Ukrainian children (the bell) in the eighth grade and in the Matura exams should be given de facto Polish language? The commands are in Ukrainian and the texts are in Polish. This is a complete misunderstanding. Please change this system and do not cause further trauma and stress in children from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u167	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u168	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On 24 February, the whole world was shocked, especially the people of Ukraine, who were looking for safe shelter in Poland. Children need special care. According to the Minister's information, over 174 thousand. Ukrainian children will be looked after and subject to school duties. It took a great deal of effort from all those who are responsible for educational processes. I thank the Minister, the Government of Law and Justice for preparing the relevant information, guidelines which are clearly presented on the pages of the Ministry of Education and Science and anyone who wants to find such information. As a Member, I have repeatedly taken advantage of this opportunity and have informed those who have sought this information where it can be found. Of course, local governments face a great challenge. With the support of the Ministry, this task is carried out correctly. I thank the Minister for securing funding, because this is a fundamental thing that makes it possible to organise the educational process of children properly. Minister! At the moment, ad hoc measures are being taken. Nobody was prepared for such a situation that you will have to organize (the bell) education for children from Ukraine. For these ad hoc actions, I thank you all. But please tell me whether you are already working on developing new rules of procedure for the start of the new school year since September, because it will already be required structured work and systematic guidelines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that disorder, even more specifically named, is the middle name of the PiS. But in the case of Ukraine's aid, this tragic situation really does not prevent anything from doing so systematically, properly and together. Like diagnosing and separating two streams, one for the Ukrainians, for those families that are going to stay or which we want to encourage them to stay with us for longer, and for those who rule out this possibility. They need to be provided with remote education, but supported by social support, so that it takes place in schools, so that it is with peer contact, but with the Ukrainian path, because they are going to come back as soon as possible. And those we want to encourage to remain with us for demographic reasons and the labour market, for example, must ensure that their cultural identity is preserved. What the Ministry intends in this case, among others. when it comes to teaching their religion? How is such teaching planned so that they can feel at home in Poland without losing their identity, because these are then (the bell) true cooperating fellow citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear fellow Members, Allow me to direct the first word to the initiator of this discussion, Mr Jan Mosiński. Janek, thank you for this debate, for bringing us all together here, and we reflect on how to help Ukrainian children and young Ukrainians. Three quick calls. First reference, Minister - proposals of system solutions logical, sensible and flexible enough that local governments should be in this. Preparatory departments and possibly including children in the educational system are this local reflection and local sense. Second line. The Ukrainian Diaspora before the war in Poland is without a small million Ukrainians. I would therefore like to encourage the local community to create coalitions to support the education of Ukrainian children and young people. Both NGOs and local governments, educational institutions already have the potential and human capital in the area. After all, Ukrainians who are here without a small 2 years speak Polish perfectly, they also have certain competences, skills. Let's use them. The third element is academic and student youth of Ukrainian origin. That's capital to use, too. So instead of sarcasm, you have to combine potentials. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u174	Everything can be measured. Local governments achieved 304 billion in revenues in 2020 and had a 5-billion-dollar surplus. In the past year, 2021, local governments had revenues of PLN 331 billion and a 16 billion surplus. The educational subsidy was higher by 2 billion, amounted to PLN 52 billion and increased by 12 billion since 2015, i.e. 30%. I'm talking about these amounts and these surpluses to say that governments today are equipped with resources to respond. Self-governments are not separate administrations, they are public administrations, they have decentralisation tasks for crisis response as well. Of course, the government will provide these resources and complement them. My question to the Minister relates to how approximately these measures are estimated. You can't run away from reality and say that public money isn't guaranteed. They're guaranteed on a huge scale, especially these days, now. It turns out that even during the pandemic, this money is extremely large in relation to what was before, under the governments of the formations that are today in opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You must take into account that decentralisation is linked to the fact of taking up responsibilities, including those of crisis, and every governor, every president, every governor, every voivode has a role, like the government, in crisis management. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u176	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I'm gonna have a question about school children's dinners. As you know, parents of students only pay so-called costs. Boiler intake, and because of the difficult situation of the family, the school principal may exempt from payment for lunches. In the case of refugees from Ukraine, in fact, all families are in a very difficult situation, so I have a question: How do schools and local governments proceed in this situation? Do they finance lunches in schools for children from Ukraine? Does the Ministry monitor this subject, and does it have information on the number of children involved, and what are the needs in this regard? It's about financial needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The school resort prepared guidelines and laid down rules for the operation of educational institutions, but it is rare that children enrolled in school after a few days stop coming to classes. Is there a system of supervision, encouragement, explanation for this? Is it an obligation for their parents to report it? The second question concerns medical students who have so far studied in Ukraine, especially in the last year. They only had a few weeks until graduation. Our universities have a free hand when it comes to examining applications for admission and continuing education. Unfortunately, in connection with another programme, these are usually lower years, e.g. Second year. My question concerns the possible cooperation of our universities with universities conducting medical studies, medical, medical and dental courses, from Ukraine. Minister, would it be possible to create an agreement between universities on the basis of which the conditions for missing practices would be created - because these are often just practices to take - and to take the exam prepared by the university from Ukraine remotely, under conditions guaranteeing an objective assessment, e.g. Using our medical training center? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, Jarosław Kaczyński said that Poland is able to accept as many refugees from Ukraine as necessary. These are noble words, of course, but we know that you need to help with your head. The question is, at which point are we going to cross the limits of our system, including the system of education. By 4 April the number PESEL was allocated 350 thousand. Ukrainian children. The final number of children who will come to Poland, who will also need to study somewhere, can be much higher. We know that these children will focus mainly on big cities or their surroundings, hence in a system that was already screwed up by lockdown in education, we have new challenges. We have a challenge we can't handle. I would like to know how the Ministry approaches this, how Polish schools are already prepared for this jump increase in the number of students, especially in large cities. Does the Ministry even plan to increase the number of classes? If there is an increase in the number of children in one class, will it be e.g. Were there more than 35 people? How many classes of this kind already exist today? How many new ones are there? Last, also important question: Does the Ministry provide for the possibility to implement other program bases with students from Ukraine (Dzinek), or will it be a Polish basis with possible help in learning language? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u181	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jan Mosiński. Are you an MP? There it is. Great, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From this discussion it follows that we passed the exam on the creation of infrastructure, carrying out certain activities for young refugees from Ukraine who want to continue their studies in Poland. The government passed the exam, passed the exams of local government units, passed the school heads. This must be remembered and not overlooked maliciously by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] From this debate - I ignore these threads, part of the statements of the opposition Members who do not have a reference in fact - there is a concern that, first of all, there should be a balance between learning young Ukrainians and learning Poles. Because that's what I'm going to say, the main vector of these actions that had to be taken so that there wouldn't be any preference in this case, which is what very many trolls in social media are accusing us of. The Minister's speech in the first part of the debate shows that this system is flexible, it will be flexible, so that this teaching for young refugees from Ukraine can be conducted without interruption, and thank you for that because it is very important. The equal treatment mentioned just now confirms our interhuman solidarity, which is also a paradigm, a vector derived directly from universal Christian values. Of course, given funding issues, today it is difficult to talk about the amount of funds that will be earmarked in the end, because this is a differential, variable situation, and there is a war in Ukraine. I still remind those who today would like the government and in this case the Ministry of Education and Science to prepare a universal program equipped with resources, textbooks, classrooms, teaching materials, etc. All of this, I think, will go according to a certain calendar. Finally, I wanted to refer to a few speeches, which would be called a little demagogic. Well, extortion or the claim that the government should create preparatory troops... I would just like to remind you that, according to the law, these branches at school level are being prepared by the school authority, and in the case of inter-field preparatory units, this is on the basis of agreements between local authorities. In 2008-2014, 2015, 2014 more, there was no war in Ukraine, there were 2.5 million refugees in Poland, there were several hundred thousand children of refugees, young people and students who had to be guaranteed the continuation of the study. Then, under the rule of our esteemed predecessors, the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform, how many teachers have left the profession? Almost $40,000. How many schools have been closed? Okay. 1200. Were there any wages? In the years 2013-2015 zero, no raises for teachers. [[9,000. Junior high school is closed for your rule.]] If you want to account for us From what we're doing, you should hit your own breasts and keep a little decency, not practice cheap populism, dull political propaganda from the Seym's platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[$500,000. Teachers will lose their jobs.]] [[You can do better than that.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Even on this subject, you have not been able to behave freely.]] [[Voice from the room: Mutually.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u183	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Dariusz Piontkowski: You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u184	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for those voices, which were a substantive voice in the discussion, and I will be silent. Regarding the remote learning of children from Ukraine, we are clearly talking about the fact that those students whose parents or carers make a statement that their children participate in the remote teaching organised by the Ukrainian Ministry are not obliged to carry out a school or a school obligation at the Polish school, while we encourage local governments, school heads to provide school infrastructure for the purposes of such education. Whether these classes take place in parallel or in the afternoon, it really depends on the headmaster. After all, it is difficult to expect from the Minister of Education that from Warsaw he will organize a program of lessons in all schools in Poland... [[But he must have the right to pay the teachers.]] Madam President, if you could hear what others say for once and not listen only to yourself. As far as finance is concerned, because these questions have been raised quite often, I spoke about it in my previous speech. Each student from Ukraine enrolled in the Polish school benefits from the same rights and obligations, and therefore also from funding. So he receives the same funding as a Polish student if he is in the primary branch. He's treated identically, financially as well. On the other hand, if it is a student enrolled in the preparatory department, then in addition to this basic weight, let's call it 1, it receives an additional weight of 0,4 and if it still participates in the additional learning of Polish language, it is also a weight of 1,5. This extra weight of 1.5 should also be applied to this student, if he uses additional language teaching if he is in the primary ward. Not all local authorities or all schools benefit from these opportunities. The money is paid in a monthly cycle. Around mid-April the first installment should be paid for students who have been enrolled. In order to receive funding, the student needs to be saved in the educational information system. If it is not written there, no funding is due. A flexible evaluation system? We're making it now. I would like to remind you that each school creates an internal evaluation system, which has great opportunities for flexible treatment of pupils. This disciple is judged to a great extent also for progress, not merely for knowledge. Those of you who worked at school should remember that. Children with disabilities, of course, benefit from similar care as children with disabilities in Poland. Many of you have asked about seniors and eighth graders. You have to realize the scale of the situation. That's 174,000. children and young people who are enrolled in Polish schools and kindergartens, 56 Ukrainian students applied to Polish Matura. 56 students, not 56 grand, so there's no doubt. This is the real scale of the problem that you are talking about as if it were the most important problem in the world. Some of you noted that, in view of these linguistic difficulties, it was prepared to facilitate the exam and the eighth grade exam. in mathematics, to actually evaluate mathematical knowledge, not language skills. In the Polish education system, the Polish language exam is valid and it is difficult to imagine the Polish language exam in a language other than the Polish language. [[Then you have to take that exam off the table.]] This is why there are preparatory units so that students who want to work longer in the Polish education system can acquire language skills that allow them to operate in this language. This is why we encourage you to create preparatory teams. [[You're bullying your students, you're bullying your eighth graders.]] We have created a very flexible model for the creation of these branches, also as inter-school and inter-school branches. A great deal depends on the initiative of local authorities and whether they want to benefit from these rules. They asked what the scale was. We think it's still too small. As far as primary schools are concerned, that's about 20%. students who are in such divisions. In high school there is already much more, mostly because it is more than 46%, in techniques almost 37%, in industry schools 28%. Are studies for students from Ukraine paid or not paid? If they study Polish in daily studies, they are free of charge, as for Polish citizens. If it is a study in a foreign language, whether it is a Pole or a citizen of the European Union or a citizen of Ukraine, it is a paid study for him. The universities run free preparatory courses to prepare students from Ukraine as soon as possible so that they can join the Polish system of higher education. I know that some students from Ukraine already benefit from this, but please remember that there is a completely different scale than in the case of this lower education, because, as I said, it is about 2,800 students from Ukraine who reported their willingness to study in Poland. There were still a lot of questions I can't answer, of course. I'm just gonna answer one of the psychic questions. There is no obligation anywhere to save a child for religion, including a Catholic religion. If anyone notices that someone is trying to write someone down, it is, of course, against the rules. So I find this question absurd. Certainly the Ministry does not encourage this kind of thing, because Polish law gives freedom of religion and does not force anyone to attend religious classes. Oh, one more very interesting question: How much money have we received from the European Union for support? [[Did you perform?]] We have acted, the Prime Minister has already asked for this many times. For now, aside from the declarations that they're willing to help us, send us a committee, create another team, we've got zero euros and zero cents. [[Okay, well, we're gonna need a handwriting.]] This is the case today in the European Union for Poland, which has adopted the vast majority of refugees from Ukraine. I'm afraid so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u185	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Although the current information relates to the continuation of education by children and young people, I wanted to ask a question concerning the continuation of studies by students who are Ukrainian citizens who came to the territory of the Republic of Poland directly from the territory of Ukraine in connection with the war activities that are taking place there. The Special Law, which entered into force on 12 March this year, introduces solutions allowing universities to define specific rules for their organisation and functioning in view of the need to allow refugees from Ukraine to study. I ask the Minister with questions: How many students from Ukraine have reached Polish universities so far? In which mode Are these students continuing their studies? Is this both stationary and non-stationary mode? What are the proportions? How many students received scholarships this semester? Will the universities that have accepted and granted scholarships from Ukraine receive additional funding from the State budget for this purpose? What's the scale of this funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u187	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws on the way housing programmes are financed (print No 2133). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Minister Piotr Uściński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u188	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to present to the Sejm the draft law on amending certain laws regarding the financing of housing programmes, the Seym No. 2133. This project is a continuation of the government's reform of social and municipal housing programmes. Ladies and gentlemen! We continue our housing policy, the 2016 National Housing Programme is implemented with good results. I have already presented this in current information here at previous meetings of the Sejm, often even so, and I will not remind you of everything, but I will mention just one thing about what is happening in social and municipal building support programmes. In 2021 alone, nearly 15 000 were created on the basis of proposals from government programmes. dwellings accessible to persons with income who do not allow themselves to meet the needs of housing in the commercial market. It's 2021. So much government support. The previous record was 2007, also the rule of law and justice. Between 2007 and 2016, where there was more, there were lower support values for these programmes. On the other hand, 2021 was a clear success. We supported the construction of many more apartments than e.g. governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not over. This year also begins very well, because we have already considered proposals this year, which will allow to build another 5,000. the premises, and this is obviously not the end, because this is the state at the end of March. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to maintain the dynamics of the social development of the housing sector, the government proposes further improvements to these programmes. The most important should be to amend the rules for the qualification of applications in such a way that the payment of support is, as a general rule, carried out during the year of submission of the application. This will make more effective use of the budget appropriations foreseen for the year in question. The most important improvements are also the introduction of new rules for limiting programme appropriations for a given year. The new solution will allow for support up to the level of funds actually collected in the Payment Fund and not to the level of rigid barrier of PLN 1 billion per year. For example: this year, of course, the amount of PLN 1 billion is foreseen in the Donation Fund, but the Ministry of Development and Technology adds savings from other programmes, i.e. another PLN 1.2 billion, and this law will allow this amount of PLN 1.2 billion to be added to the Dollar Fund. We know that this money is very much needed for local governments to create municipal, social and SIM housing, so this year the total pool will be PLN 2.2 billion. Another point: an indication of an additional source of funding for housing programmes. It will also be possible to sell treasury securities. The next solution contained in this draft law is to allow the amount of support granted to be updated in the case of higher than assumed investment costs. After the tender has been decided, the beneficiaries will be able to apply for compensation, i.e. if they have applied for some amount which was based on estimates, and after the tender it turns out that this amount is higher, we in this draft law propose that they be able to update their proposal. Another solution: fixing the maximum rent rates in the housing stock financed by the State budget according to the principle that the higher the support from the budget, the lower the rent rate should be. Another solution: introducing the possibility of setting up mortgage guarantees on KZN's real estate for investments carried out by SIM with the participation of KZN. This is also a very important solution that will allow SIMs to finance the construction of apartments. I will remind you that KZN has already transferred for SIMs about 70 ha of land on which it will be possible to build. Thank you very much. I hope that the High House will adopt this bill that will help us implement these housing programs. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u189	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u190	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, contained in print 2133. As Minister Uściński has just mentioned here, this project is an obvious continuation of the government's reform of social housing and municipal construction programmes, as can be seen in these changes which are included in the government initiative. This is, of course, a continuation of housing policy, which is intended to result in a decisive improvement in the availability of housing. I will pay no attention to the basic elements of the government initiative, and the Minister has already said so. On the other hand, I would point out that 2021 and the first quarter of 2022 are record-breaking in terms of the amount transferred from both the Dollar Fund and the Government Housing Development Fund. With over PLN 3 billion we release through this amendment and its mechanisms more than PLN 1 billion or almost PLN 1.5 billion under these programmes. In addition to these solutions, we formulate in this initiative other tools of a systemic nature, which are included in this regulation, which can be used, for example. on the resources of unused housing of different entities, including private ones. They are also social housing agencies. Such an instrument was introduced, as some of you recall, already in July 2021 by amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion. The most important element of this amendment, in general, is the streamlining of the financing mechanism for social and municipal buildings, which includes non-refundable financial support from the state budget, which is provided to local government units and public benefit organisations for the development of construction that meets, which is implemented in a conscious manner, the housing needs of people with lower incomes, with particular emphasis on municipal construction. I would also like to refer to some of the recommended solutions contained in this project. First of all, as regards the financing mechanism for social and municipal construction programmes, including the operation of the Donation Fund from which the scheme is financed, an adjustment of the expenditure rule is envisaged by implementing legal arrangements that will enable the Bank of National Holdings to conclude financial support agreements with beneficiaries only within the limits of expenditure fixed for the financial year concerned. The maximum limits are laid down in the Act of 22 March 2018 amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other Acts. In conclusion, I would like to stress that by drawing on an ongoing basis the lessons from the implementation of the measures targeted in particular by local government units and other entities eligible for aid or credit, we are improving in this revision the dynamics of the social sector's development in terms of housing (Dzinek), and we are introducing a number of options which are, I would say, a much better correction of practices relating primarily to the mobilisation of increasingly large funds for social and municipal construction. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u191	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, a few quotes: The Living+ Program did not work out as we would like. I'm saying it with an open head. That is what Prime Minister Morawiecki said during the presentation of the assumptions of the Polish Order. [[Applause]] By the way, he didn't make it either. Minister Soboń said it was a lottery. There's something wrong with these programs, Prime Minister. Too many projects don't work out. I'm not talking about the private ones that are involved with your wife because they're leaving. Another quote: The fiasco of the flagship program PiS. That's what NIK says. About 100,000. 15 thousand apartments were built. Another quote: successive legislative initiatives undertaken by ministers to improve the functioning of the Living+ programme did not contain comprehensive solutions for increasing the supply and use of State Treasury land for housing purposes, which in turn had a negative impact on the availability of low income housing. Another quote: The fiasco of the government's housing programme. According to NIK: The unsolved problem remains the provision of housing to households whose income makes it impossible to obtain credit and purchase housing. In the last 8 years, the share of housing that would serve the needs of people with average and low incomes was on average only 2.5% new housing resources. Another smashing report on the PiS flag program. We have another quote, please: Checkers also calculate that Living+ was supposed to reduce queues willing to go to municipal premises, and it didn't happen. The queues were to disappear completely by 2030. For this to happen, more than 136 thousand should be put into service. apartments. This is the state at the end of 2020. Less than 15,000 were paid back. apartments. Next title: Government program falls silently. A plot on a cheap apartment thrown at developers. What am I talking about? For example, in July 2017, Minister Adamczyk writes: I am glad that it is on the grounds of Polish Post, as the first company of the Treasury, that the investment will begin. Mr Bartłomiej Pawlak, a member of the Management Board of BGK Nieruchomości, writes: I hope that the investment carried out on the Polish Post will show that it is worth to reach the unused areas of the Treasury companies to build on them affordable housing for Polish families. And what do you find out, ladies and gentlemen? We are talking about the Polish Post site, which was supposed to be used by the Living+ ¿ program. What does it turn out to be? Today it turns out that Poczta Polska sells this plot for 110 million PLN. The Living+ programme will simply not be implemented on this plot. The plans have changed. Another hot plot is a plot on the street. It's a commodity. Such a curiosity, it is located near the famous street. Silver, where the famous two towers were to be built. You're gonna tell me this isn't about this bill. Well, that's certainly the point. How are we supposed to trust you, believe that you want to solve the housing problems of the Polish society? The Minister was pleased to note that you are continuing the implementation of the National Housing Programme. If you continue with it as you have done so far, I am not a fortune teller. The Polish government, I dare say, does not pursue any effective housing policy. Ministers change, we have legislative chaos. That doesn't bode well. [[Careers will not do this to you, Madam Member.]] Minister! Please don't take credit for apartments built by private investors. It's not your fault. The bill we're going to be looking at is probably good, but we've had plenty of good laws. As you recall, as far as the housing programme is concerned, we have always supported and supported different solutions, but this simply does not work out. There are good solutions here. I mean, for example, solutions for seniors, an increase in the level of funding for the support of municipalities, or an opportunity to support renovations. This solution is good, but as I said, we've seen a lot of good solutions from the assumption, we've supported them, but none of it worked out. I hope it doesn't happen this time. We will look at this law and its detailed records in the course of further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u194	High Izbo! It is good that we are talking today in the Seym about apartments, because the housing crisis is getting worse, prices and rents are rising from month to month. According to experts, even 2 million apartments are missing and we are still saving ourselves with the resource that remains after Edward Gierek's time. This is a sad summary of the housing policy pursued both by the Platform and by the Law and Justice. It's bad. As you know, there are still a lot of politicians in this room who believe in the maxim of President Komorowski: change your job and take credit. They do not understand why the young generation simply boils when it hears this maxim. So, ladies and gentlemen, let me explain this as politely as possible. After the fall of the Polish People's Republic, many of you bought apartments for a fraction of their market value. In graphic terms, to buy an old factory apartment or communal apartment with a 90% discount or 95% All you had to do was drive a couple of times to the sax. Today this story for young people sounds like a fairy tale, because here in Warsaw, a meter apartment on the outskirts of the city can cost several thousand zlotys. Thirty-year-olds nest at their parents' homes, work and live for years in student apartments, without a chance to start a normal family. And it will be, as we all know, even harder. It will be harder because the war has made us more in Poland. And women, and children from Ukraine have joined those who are looking for a roof over their head on the market, so the effect is of course that rental prices exploded. As you know, in Poland there is virtually no regulation of rents, and for years, when politicians raised this topic together, a group of media wise men could afford only jokes about the Polish People's Republic. So now the price for this lack of imagination will be paid by the young generation. All this urging everyone to do their own thing about the apartments is to haunt their clients' banks. Slowly taking it to the head because interest rates go up, so hundreds of thousands of people just lose their credit. They will no longer take any credit, and those who have been persuaded to take credit from month to month look terrified at WIBOR. As you know, banks are now jumping up their loan instalments. A few months ago the average installment was PLN 1,500, while today the same family pays PLN 2700. If we let WIBOR keep going, it'll be 5,000 in a minute. Evil and people can't stand it. There's going to be bankruptcy, evictions, and the only happy thing is the president of this bank or any other bank, because it's the banks that make the big billions. Their profits are now growing as fast as loan instalments are growing rapidly. This vicious circle, ladies and gentlemen, can only be interrupted by the state. The Messenger of Gosek-Popielek, who is standing there, has proposed a solution that limits banks' independence, allows the freezing of instalments, gives a moment of breath accredited under traffic. I encourage you to lean on this budget-neutral solution. In the long run, however, it is crucial that we free the young generation from living with a loan for 30 years. This can only be done in one way and only in one way: through left-wing housing policy, building state-owned and local rental housing, because after 25 years of validity of the Constitution, which imposed an obligation on public authorities to meet the needs of citizens' housing, the obligation that public authorities have failed to comply with, is already clear that the market for the state will not solve it. Today, the apartments mentioned by the Minister are still not being built funny enough. I'm not going to care about the failure of the Living + ¿ program here. Unfortunately, it all came true what we warned against a few years ago. In order to be able to build apartments, the government must allocate money from the budget - and this money was not - because otherwise it ends as in Warsaw's unfortunate Odolany, where there was land belonging to the post office, there were press conferences, promises were made, and it ended so that the resort of Mr. Sasin simply allowed the sale of property and no cheap rentals would be there. But just to be clear, some people in this room obviously enjoy every failure of this government, and I'm not happy because every time the right hand screws up another project, I see people who lose hope that anything can be done. And then I hear from them in open meetings that nothing can be done. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you can and you don't have to look far, you don't have to look in Vienna or Scandinavia, just go where the pro-social self-governments are. In Włocławek, the Left led to the fact that rent apartments are built on a large scale and the blocks are already standing. Soon there will be residents, hundreds of families will have a roof over their head, apartments with regulated rent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is important that instead of market speculation, which constitute an eldorado for banks, there should be regulated rents, local government housing. It just takes public money. And here's the key thing, the billion that appears in this bill, it's a radically small size. I read in the explanatory memorandum, Minister, that the government is worried that, by chance, it won't spend too much not to spend any more. The Left considers exactly the opposite. The state must spend much more on apartments than it had previously spent on. This statutory expenditure limit should be increased and European funds should also be used - and this should be mentioned. I remind you that in the European reconstruction fund there is money thanks to the Left to build 75 thousand in Poland. apartments. That money can be unfreezed at any time. It's only up to you, but, ladies and gentlemen, the government must end this ridiculous struggle with Brussels. People are waiting in Poland for these apartments. It's a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, that we're finally talking in the Seym about the housing crisis. It is a pity that the technical law presented today by the government will not solve this crisis. This is a handful of technical solutions, minor corrections, some legislative patches. Of course, they are needed and the Left will not block them, we will support the referral of the bill to further work, but let us be honest: on a fundamental point this law does not change much, and it is a pity, because in this matter we can really no longer wait. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak. [[Why don't you extend the marshal's time 40% longer?]] Ma'am, I'm prolonging everything, and I've extended Mr Polachk too. Therefore, before you say anything, have some reflection in yourself. Mr Jacek Tomczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland on the government draft law amending certain laws regarding the way housing programmes are financed. This draft regulation responds to three groups of circumstances related to the government's housing programmes. The first group are of course important changes in the social housing programme. The second group is the potential threat of negative interest rates in financial markets. Third group of issues - on the Payment Fund. We also have a number of other minor changes. However, despite the fact that these changes are correct, this does not change... It is difficult to disagree with a number of proposals from the Ministry, better, worse, they are undoubtedly worth discussing. I can even say right away that we will be in favour of directing this project to further reading. Let us be honest: all these changes are really about most of the projects in the social and municipal housing market. Do you know what this is today's share of the housing market? 1%. That's 1%. This number of apartments built in Poland concerns this project. It really shows that the PiS is fighting with the help of their ideas, constantly improving them, but does not solve the main problems. Because all the problems in housing today are really next door. The problem that needs to be addressed, which needs to be addressed, apart from inflation that kills more investments today, is the lack of land, above all the land under construction. So what if, as a colleague said earlier, we have millions from the European Union? There's no land. Do you understand? There is no land for housing. Today, the main cost of construction is ground. They just don't exist, they're not available. This is what the market has been screaming about for a year now: the fact that the sick, repeatedly revalued values of land and their lack of land cause that there are no new investments. They're shrinking. The supply and offers on the market today look like this: in Wrocław by 41% in the first quarter the supply decreased, i.e. the number of offers available on the market decreased. In Katowice, the number of offers offered by the housing market decreased by 38%. Poznan - 73%. Warsaw - still looks best - 26%. The offer of apartments available on the market is being reduced. Today, the Ministry must respond to this, these are the main housing problems, because the housing available will be less. Of course, demand is also falling because people are falling because they are not creditworthy because of interest rate increases. This, on the other hand, is kind of a separate problem that needs to be solved as well. In any case, a number of actions are needed. We have a cosmic rise in the price of building materials, which prevents many construction companies from making offers, binding offers. Today, Polish entrepreneurs, who want to build, are unable to find general contractors, because nobody wants to undertake the execution of parts of buildings on the right dates, because they do not know at what prices they will build these apartments. They don't know the dates, because we have a problem with rising steel prices and a number of building materials. We need to discuss these problems, these are the main problems of the housing market today. We expect a response from the Ministry. And the solutions in the market are, entrepreneurs make numerous proposals for solutions. I hope that the Ministry sees this and that it will discuss and present these proposals. Firstly, there is a need for a special act that will give opportunities to transform service land, commercial land into residential land. It is necessary to open up as much land as possible for housing to reduce their price, because today this price is absolutely unrealistic. There's no market value anymore. Land prices are growing in a strange way. We need to open this up as soon as possible, first of all free the land of the Treasury companies, which are blocked by various programs. We need to amend the law: a place for land that doesn't really work. We need to unleash land for housing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to amend the law on guaranteed housing credit. Today, the limits that were adopted there last year are completely unrealistic. Today, the percentage of people who can apply under this law and try to get apartments is about 5%. 5% Poles are now included in the criteria of this law. We need to speed up the process of starting construction, change the conditions for environmental decisions, facilitate the possibility for Ukrainians to purchase premises as well. Finally, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Roads Act - Art. 16, which in many cities is blocking the possibility of a transparent start of investment. There are a number of specific problems - an indicator of building intensity. Some policy needs to be changed and monuments must be protected, but today monument conservationists are blocking much of the land that could be used for residential land. These are the real problems of the market today, and we would like to talk about them. We would like the Ministry to organise a debate in the near future - if not, we will do it - on a cross-party basis on the further development of this area of housing. Because without such a debate and a certain agreement over divisions, it is not possible today to rationally support entrepreneurs who want to build and deliver housing, and will be less and less for the reasons I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedated bill is a drop in the sea of the needs of the Polish housing market. It is important to be clear that, especially in the case of young people, this situation is simply tragic, not to say, terrible. Poland has one of the lowest number of rooms per person across the EU, it is interesting. Years of considerable demand - also caused by the migration of workers, especially from the East, today deepened by the refugee crisis - cause housing prices to rise, we know that up to 30% in some cities. In this situation young people, students, employees can't even afford to rent, let alone talk about buying. This situation is getting worse and she could be even worse. Today we see prices in Gdańsk - 11 thousand. PLN per meter, in Warsaw - on average 13 thousand. zł per meter. It's a really high amount. We also want real respect for the property of citizens as an ideal right, because this is the foundation of economic life. Such ideas, that this local construction is supported and ceded rather to the local government, are certainly closer to the central control that has already taken place and which, as we have seen, ended in a failure. You have introduced the Living+ programme - maybe only refugees will be staying in these new apartments in a moment, and Polish families will still have problems, because we know that these apartments, which you planned 100,000, are still not there. Today we see another problem. Extremely expensive, inflation, insanely rising prices of building materials, among others. by war in Ukraine, because we know that supply chains have been severed - it will only deepen this crisis. And in such a crisis, in such a situation will be won mainly by great developers, foreign investment funds with apartments for rent. And the sense of temporaryity, uncertainty about the future of Poles will grow. We know that inflation is high, inflation is rising, because there is, for example, inflation. It's a cheap loan. But there are other mechanisms that you can work on. We, as the Confederation, recall one of the demands of building savings accounts, which may be an additional asset here - the tax credit that can be given to man in this case can also be an incentive to save what is needed today. Savings, i.e. (The bell) tax relief on payment, a reduction in the amount of the tax base, and then the absence of Belka tax - this could help in the long term. Consider it. I know you guys aren't going to accept any of our laws, you're doing this for the principle, but maybe we can work something out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u200	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The presented print should bear the title: to amend certain laws on the financing of disappointed dreams, because after apartments with available rents we have only dreams, as after the negative interest rates referred to in the justification for this project. Unfortunately, today the situation is very different. Our financial hawk, NBP president, raised his feet to a record level of 4.5% yesterday. And yet in September he assured that such an action would be a school mistake. Today, the feet grow and the nose of Mr.Glapiński grows, and the life rate of Poles falls. 4 million of us will force even more mortgage payments, and housing will become even more luxurious. What's more, the state's finances show the bottom, so the government is desperately looking for money for its upheaval expenses. In this unfortunately there is an increase in the sale of real estate of the State Treasury and its companies. For 110 million, this was already mentioned, a 2.5 hectare plot was just sold in the Warsaw Odolany area - a plot on which cheap apartments were to be built under the Living+ ¿ program. That is why I ask the Minister in this room, in which you have so many times cut off from privatization of Polish assets. Minister, can you hear me? Is it true that there are meetings and works in the Ministry on the distribution of parcels from the National Property Resources? I want to hear clear here too or not. If so, did you in any way secure the establishment of apartments with moderate rent? After all, you have a mechanism used in local governments: a place for land. You can use it when it comes to yourself and simply copy it - not to fight the market, but not to lay a pie in front of it, but to cooperate partnerly. You can really do this. You have criticized liberalism so many times, and you introduce residential Darwinism to a new level in Poland. Your predecessors said change jobs and take credit. And you add, you can't afford credit, go under the bridge. We will support this law, although we do not have the hope of applying it widely. But we want to know, Minister, what about the land of the National Property Resources. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we took up housing at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology a year and a half ago, we knew exactly that we wanted to drop off the so-called. Cuckoo egg because the Living+ program didn't work, and that's what we all knew then. Without your own M, it's hard to get emancipated, I think we all know that. In the resort led by Jarosław Gowin, open to partnership and participation, we managed to create a framework for a program that met the needs of young people, and above all it was not a burden for local governments. We've learned from the failure of our predecessors. We created a program that made housing investments no longer a crutch for local governments. They have ceased to be an investment nightmare, a burden on the budgets of the municipalities. The money was paid in advance for the investment costs and was up to 80% from the state budget. Within the first 40 days of the adoption of the law, almost 10% Local governments in Poland joined the program. I know something about it because in my Kujawsko-Pomorskie region it was very common and well received. The agreement has left the government, and what happens next with this social housing program? The President of KZN is now finalizing the agreements that we started. Well, that's good, at least. We are on the tail of Europe when it comes to social construction, which is why we will be looking very closely at the changes that are currently being proposed in this law. We'll support this bill. We want her to go to the committee. We're gonna keep an eye on you so you don't throw us something that's gonna ruin the good bill again. On the contrary, we will be able to mobilise you to ensure that the solutions are what local governments and locals expect. So that we give credit to trust, but we'll keep an eye on it. We want the project, the bill that we have created, to be improved, of course. We're gonna get you to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u203	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. We have 25 people who have asked questions. Therefore, I set the time for the question - 1 minute. Since we are in time, I will allow myself in this part after 1 minute, regardless of who is a club or a circle, to interrupt the speeches, because at the moment everyone spoke as much as he thought it was appropriate. Here we go. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u204	Thank you. The Law and Justice Government has introduced a number of attractive municipal support instruments for local government units: grant to non-refundable municipalities 50-80% of housing investment costs, support up to 50% of renovation costs in residential premises and up to 80% of renovation costs, etc. Among these instruments is among others. support for the construction of apartments with rooms common to seniors. These and other instruments have resulted in a huge increase of five times, from local governments in 2021 compared to 2020. I would like to ask what interest is in supporting construction for seniors. I know that in Western European countries, due to the ageing of societies, this form of support is very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the interest in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u205	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law, there are a number of solutions to ensure liquidity for housing providers, but also to prevent them from risking negative interest rates. You're putting a lot of effort into this. Now, here's the question. Are you so isolated from reality, or do you know more about changing Polish monetary policy? Do we, by any chance, want to follow Erdogan's footsteps in a situation where inflation is rising, we're going to lower interest rates? I do not understand why this idea and why you pay so much attention to the risk of negative interest rates in today's situation, when really rising interest rates are a fundamental threat to the implementation of housing programs, but not only programs, but individual ambitions of individual Polish households, Polish families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today we are discussing a draft law on the financing of housing programmes adopted on 22 March, addressed to the Sejm on 31 March. More than 70 comments have been submitted to this project, which have been taken into account and are therefore justified. Here's a question for the Prime Minister. I ask for a written reply in view of the fact that he is not in the Chamber at the moment, why such underdeveloped draft government laws go to the session of the Sejm and to a broad opinion and consultation on such important issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, housing prices gallop and gallop will increase. We have some NBP inflation forecasts that are terrifying. I have a question: What is the Ministry going to do to counteract this phenomenon? One of the laws that we discussed not so long ago, last year, about the development fund, comes into force on July 1st. According to the housing market experts, the chambers of commerce alone will raise housing prices by 5%, i.e. by adding it to inflation it is already at least 16% within one year. Only with one bill, with your ideas in the development fund, you really don't know why you created, you will raise the prices of apartments by an average of 5%. Regulatory restrictions imposed on entrepreneurs... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u212	...they're gonna block out more investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u213	I invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u214	It seems that right now... I'm done, I'm done, Mr. Marshal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Mr. President, Mr. President. I am speaking to Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Wake up, please, your voice. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Ah, thank you very much.]] Great. I'm sorry to interrupt your sleep, but it just happens sometimes that the Marshal has to stop the messenger's dream. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I just wrote on my computer.]] I see. But we're glad you're with us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u216	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u217	In the sense of sleep, of course. That's all I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask the ruling left, as well as the opposition left, Mr. Zandberg, who isn't here, if they know the story. 'Cause, you know, like... In the United States, there was a left-wing man named Lyndon Johnson, Kennedy, and they came up with an idea to get a place for everyone who couldn't afford an apartment. They created two funds: Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and it ended in disaster. It was a complete disaster, and it was a major crisis in America, which, by the way, moved to Europe. Well, what you're doing here is a thorough repetition - not accurate, because you're not creating these two funds, but something else - what was in the United States. Instead of leaving it to the market to lower prices, at the moment the prices of apartments are 3 or 4 times higher than they could be, because you pay the brick tax, then the one who bought the bricks, pays from the wall, then the one from the lime, etc. If you count the cost pulled (the bell), then everything is three, four times more expensive than it should be. Taxes need to be reduced, not helped by your business style.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First, I will refer to my previous speaker, Mr Tomczyk. Duby's got a lot of grease on you. Those who estimate this increase in housing prices are talking about 2%. Developer Guarantee Fund is a 1% contribution in open funds , and in enclosed - 0.1%. So what are you doing here, excuse me, telling me? This is an example of undermining the good that this Sejm has adopted under the influence of the crisis. Let's not do this, really, let's not go this way. On the other hand, I refer to Minister Uściński with the case I spoke about at the previous sitting. Unfortunately, Minister, in the loan agreement - I am talking here mainly about hosting our Ukrainian sisters and brothers, refugees - there is a tax obligation. You said he wasn't gonna take care of this case. I very much wanted to remind myself about this and say that a clear and clear interpretation is needed (The Bell) so that Poles do not pay PIT from lending apartments to Ukrainians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Housing Initiatives programme was the response of the Agreement to the failed Living+PiS programme. This program was very well rated by local authorities. At the first stage, local authorities joined companies which were to be investors and developers of low-cost rental apartments in their territory. Today, when we talk to local government officials, they already know that not all apartments will rise. They no longer approach this program with such optimism. Therefore, Minister, please tell us how many local governments have actually joined the companies. How many apartments are currently being built and when will the investments carried out under the SIM be carried out? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! You criticize the government for housing policy, while I recall well 23 November 2007, here, this place and speech, the exposé of Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Perhaps you would like to remind us how many minutes he spent on the housing policy of the Polish state? It was zero minutes. And that was the case, ladies and gentlemen, housing policy of the Civic Platform. Today, you are criticizing the Living+ program, but it must be said between God and the truth that the failure of this programme, the responsibility for this failure, also in some ways, lies with the local government. An example of my city of Wielenia. At the end of the programme, the mayor withdrew from the programme, while at the same time 100 apartments in Łowicz, already inhabited, were built under the Living+ Programme. Today, social housing initiatives (the bell) in Działoszyn, Spajczno are being created. The Zduńska will ruled by the Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u226	...she just joined this program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u227	I would like to ask you, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u228	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This is your next approach to solving the housing crisis. I sincerely hope it works this time, because so far none of your ideas have worked. This is particularly painfully shown by the latest report by NIK, which covered the years 2016-2021. Even the article on NIK's website is entitled "Fisko programu Apartment Plusż." I think that says everything. But why doesn't it work like that? Why, if you need more than 2 million apartments in Poland, you still offer further programs, which instead of 100,000. The promised build at least 15 thousand. Ready? This is all a joke. For the Ministry of Development and Technology, effective supervision of the national real estate stock Is that too difficult a task? How long do we have to wait for a coherent and comprehensive housing policy? The NIK report is a warning alert for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's wake-up time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Whether the government is willing to answer my question about the purpose of making millions of inefficient financial operations consisting on the one hand in granting subsidies and supporting certain enterprises, and on the other hand in mitigating the effects of this support. The ideal example is fuel prices, where the government has reduced taxes while at the same time fuel companies have increased the margin. In the bill we read about supporting construction for rent. At the same time, the government has introduced radical changes in the taxation of these premises since this year. The flat-rate tax was abolished very willingly used by the tenants and forced them to fully record their costs and to settle on a general basis, which leads to lower rental cost. Why are we creating dozens of laws in which the government is giving something to balance these expenses, we are about to adopt a new or raise the current fiscal burden (the bell)? Is the government willing to answer that question? If you do, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u232	At the beginning of the 1990s, local governments resigned from municipal construction and thought that the market would do it. Fortunately, this situation is changing now, of course the market is implementing it and the conditions for the market must be, I will remind you, 143 thousand. apartments built in 2015 and 234 thousand in 2021, so this is dynamics, but the most important thing is to encourage local governments. [[Voice from the hall: Who built it?]] And to encourage local governments to invest, there is just a wealth and financial instrument. On the other hand, KZN has a very important role to play here, whose role must be even greater, which is why I believe that such regulations should be included in this law in order to ensure that the number of social housing is implemented. And that the municipalities would like to invest on a larger scale. The land has been collected there, there will still be further, 900 ha is already there, 1300 will probably be (the bell) acquired, and at the moment this initial work has to be done, it is happening right now and I hope that it will continue to develop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u234	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't know if you know this, but in recent days we've had a funeral to the government's housing programme in Warsaw. [[Voice from the hall: What's he crying about?]] It was July 2017. Minister Adamczyk, who probably does not know much about Warsaw, and yet the Warsaw Wola least, appeared at a press conference with the then President of Polish Post and announced: Apartments will be erected on the Polish Post site+. The first time a company of the State Treasury enters with a fetch with a plot. There were cameras, there was TVP Info, there were ribbon cuttings. And what do we have today? Ladies and gentlemen! In recent days, Poland Post has put up this plot for sale. The starting price is PLN 110 million. There are several law and justice politicians who are likely to be able to afford such a plot, I know at least one. But this is your defeat. I would like the Minister to explain his decision as to why there are no apartments in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Ask your president, you need government and government cooperation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u235	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, the Left Messenger's Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the United Right took over power, I will remind you, 7 years ago, housing policy was one of the key areas, of course declaratively. The National Housing Programme announced with a pump in 2016 proved to be a total failure, and to the flagship program Living+that nobody admits it anymore. It was and it's your defeat. Undoubtedly, after these many mistakes you can see a small light in the tunnel, but it is only thanks to the support and activity of local governments. My question is: How many recent social housing initiatives have been created since the start of the project, and how many investments are currently being built in Poland under the local housing scheme? Please answer this question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the few votes in support of this bill. There is more general criticism, it is a pity that you have not read or read the National Housing Program, which has been in force for many years. [[We read, we read.]] Its main objective is to increase the number of apartments, that is the primary objective. Last year, 235,000. apartments, that's the most since 1979. [[And who built these apartments? It's easy for you to take credit for someone else's.]] Unfortunately, the number of apartments in municipal construction is falling or isn't growing. I have a question to the Minister, according to the assumptions of this law, how much the number of housing that local governments have built and how much the number of apartments that have been renovated by local authorities has increased in recent years, especially empty houses, because this was a huge problem, for several years back, no local authorities have renovated with the support of this construction. At the moment this support is and I would like you to synthetically determine how much (the bell) was this support to local governments for the previous coalition, how many are there at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Eight years and you didn't build anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is submitting another bill on housing, but you have not yet settled with the previous housing program, the famous Living+ ¿. It's famous, but not because it's made up of 100,000. new apartments, just like you promised, but famous for being a huge failure. Besides, the Supreme Auditorium speaks perfectly of this. You announced that in 3 years 100,000 would be raised. Apartments, not in 3, but in 5 and not 100,000, but 15. The Supreme Audit Chamber speaks of the lack of effective legal solutions, slowness and legislative mess, and Jarosław Kaczyński accuses who for failure of this program? State institutions, the same ones you manage. Now you're making more promises. I have a question about how young people who cannot afford to live in Poland have to believe these promises. As long as you rule, nothing (the bell) will change in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u242	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From the Minister, but also from one of the Members of Law and Justice present in the Chamber, we have heard that the housing policy of the PiS will continue. I'm asking you not to go on with it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We will support any solution that will allow for more housing and social housing, but do not continue your own housing policy. After all, your flagship government program, called the National Program of Living+ ¿, should be called: a ghost apartment, because has anyone seen 100,000? The apartments you were supposed to build? [[Applause]] You promised that the queues for these apartments would end in 2030, but they extended until 2040. So once again, don't continue your own housing policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u244	High Izbo! Minister! In recent months we have seen an increase in the interest of local governments in the social and municipal development programme. Because, ladies and gentlemen, instead of 20-percent support, local governments receive 50-percent support in investment costs... [['Cause it's all been expensive.]] ...and the result is that five times more requests for support were made in 2021 than in 2020. In 2020 there were 62 of them, in 2021 - 312, of which the overwhelming majority - almost 300 - concerns housing, 12 applications concern sheltered housing. Minister! The total opposition, instead of referring to the print project 2133, quotes here newspaper articles on housing policy and reports by NIK, which do not differ from those of newspaper articles. However, you do not acknowledge that the new instruments introduced in 2020 and 2021 (the bell), such as the locals for land... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[It's the end of the PiS. That's it. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u245	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Cesare Grabarczyk, from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk has the floor. Thank you very much, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u246	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Between 2007 and 2015 1,200 thousand were put into service. apartments, which is worth recalling, 196 thousand. it was created with the budgetary assistance of the State under the Family Programme. Living for young people was also a programme that supported the acquisition of housing by young people. In our term of office, it was over 60,000. housing, the second was acquired during the continuation of the programme already by the Coalition of Law and Justice. Minister Smolinski killed this good project, killed the apartment for young people. [[Applause]] Let me remind you: over 100,000 have been created under this programme. apartments. Your Accommodation+ has only translated into 15 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a lot less. How many houses were created as part of the construction of Polish wooden houses? I'm asking the Minister for an answer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What a treasure it is to own your own apartment, we all know, and some of the well-known people have put their capital directly into many apartments. [[Read: Morawiecki.]] No government will solve the housing problem because it is not a problem to be solved once and for all. Housing policy is to meet social needs for community housing, social housing for the poorest. Indeed, these needs are growing. And that's how the government of law and justice works, that's how it responds to growing demand. I ask the Minister to hand over the funds that have been transferred to local governments in 2019-2021, which are failing to comply, and some SIMs are not fulfilling either, or Living+ ¿, because I have witnessed this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Because you took the money.]] Whatever it takes, it's too short. I also ask for information on global growth in 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u249	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Wojciechowska from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! For 8 years, the Civic Platform has implemented the Living Programme for Young People, which has benefited from 110 000. Young people, families, these young people bought their own apartments. As regards the other programme, the family at its own initiative benefited from the grant for interest rates of 196 thousand. persons. PiS created the Living+ program, eliminated these programs, eliminated something that worked very well, but had one flaw - it was the Platform and PSL programme. According to the NIK report on the program, as my predecessors said here, we have only 13 thousand built. apartments and about 20,000. under construction. Irregularities have also been identified as usual. However, according to Mr Kaczyński's promise by 2019 it was to be 100,000. housing, not to mention ambitious election plans, 1 million apartments in 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Empty promises, as usual. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u251	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to support the construction of municipal housing in cooperation with the government and local government. Needs are huge. A lot of needy people who can't afford their own apartment are reporting to my parliamentary office. In the previous term I was with deputy Pomeranian Voivode Mariusz Łuczyk the originator of a meeting with local government officials of five powiats. At that time, with 40% government support, only three local government officials supported the topic. Today, the funding reaches 80% for the construction of apartments and 50% for the construction of apartments. for their revitalization. Dear self-governments, take up the construction of large-scale apartments, after all, the most important is the man in need of an apartment that simply cannot afford it. Today is 80%. funding and say that the government is funding so much, because somehow I can't hear you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u253	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u254	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you're sitting in a corner, I think you're ashamed of the fact that you failed to build 100,000. apartments, state flagship program. [[Applause]] What did it do? 100,000. It's a scandal. What are our problems today? Self-governments have no money, construction costs are very high, because the materials are expensive, individual people cannot borrow because they have no credit - the credit price is high and expensive. What do you propose to replace this? The negative interest rate and BGK support - after all, they are the Himalayas of hypocrisy. What are they gonna do, what are they gonna do, or what are they gonna do? They pay higher rents, high gas bills, high loan instalments - they pay and cry. You are criticizing our programmes over the past 8 years: the Youth Living Programme, buried by Minister Smolinski - 120 thousand. housing, family programme - 196 thousand. apartments. How do you live here, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When nothing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u255	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask, first of all, about apartments for the weakest, who could not afford to buy their own apartment now or in the nearest perspective, even very often for rent, the cheapest, most simple apartment. How much support has been given to local governments so far? What do the queues for these apartments look like at the moment for people who are the least capable of acquiring an apartment or renting an apartment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u257	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aim of this draft law is undoubtedly to improve the functioning of housing programmes, including the existing operation of the subsidy fund, which is a fund funded by the state budget implementing a number of key government programmes. In the club speeches we often heard criticisms about the construction of apartments, but statistics show that last year the number of paid apartments increased by more than 6% to 235 000. In December alone, more than 88 apartments were handed over by individual investors. I therefore turn to the Minister: Should the programme contained in this project improve the number of apartments to be given back in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u259	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Minister Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u260	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for these many questions. I only have five minutes, right? Then I'll try pretty quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u261	Try harder. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Ladies and gentlemen! I will start by saying what Mr Adrian Zandberg said, and that is in my mind. Mr Adrian Zandberg, accusing the government that he is not building apartments, gave an example to the local government in Włocławek, that it is where housing is built and the local government is dealing with it. I answer you: the local government in Włocławek uses government programs, uses government money, and thanks to that in Włocławek 80% of the subsidies were received for the construction of 288 apartments, the municipal company got it. In addition, TBS in Włocławek uses the SBC program, as well as the government program, and received funding - a preferential loan for the construction of another 308 apartments. So this is an example of using government programs. I am very glad that this example has appeared. This is what we expect - this has been said by your Members - we encourage local governments to use the programmes. About 80% funding for municipal construction, renovation of deserts - Mr Kazimierz Smolinski asked about the number, so I will give it to you - these are the number of applications qualified in 2021: 60 applications for 379 premises, empty buildings themselves, renovations. This year we already have over 500 proposals, so local governments are increasingly interested in this and I hope it will work very well. Mrs Gill-Friday - she is not in the Chamber, but I hope she listens online. Firstly, when it comes to loan agreements, free lending to Ukrainians, refugees, this is not taxed at the moment, and this has already been said. We don't charge Ukrainians, we can't pay any tax on it, that's clear. On the other hand, Ukrainians are also tax exempt in this respect by the specialty we adopted recently, a few weeks ago, in the Seym. Mrs Gill-Friday also suggests that we want to sell some land. Nothing like that happens, there are no such conversations, I deny these innuendoes. On the other hand, in this law, which we are discussing today, we are making it easier, and we are clarifying some changes so that the property mechanism for land can function better, but there is no question of distribution, because the municipality is bidding for the land it receives, which the KZN is transferring to it. The money that flows from this to the municipality or KZN is intended for housing and, of course, this land goes to the construction of premises for the municipality, so the premises for the land are not any distribution, but is the real estate allocation for housing purposes. Mr Adamczyk claims that we take into account comments in the public consultation. This is the first time I've met with such a question, with such a condition that they can't be taken into account. That is why there is a public consultation in the legislative process, a public consultation to take advantage of these comments if someone wants to speak in the debate, so I think that this is a reason to be proud that in the consultation we are able to take notes and take them into account in the draft laws. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski asks about queues when it comes to communal housing. Dear Member, in 2015, it was almost 164,000. in 2020 the population fell to 136 000. Now this may change due to the known situation, but basically the purpose of the National Housing Program is being fulfilled. We're lowering this line. The next objective of the housing programme was to increase the number of apartments. Mr Grabarczyk mentioned how many apartments were built during the Civil Platform. May I remind you, and it is worth comparing these data, because in 2008, you were just talking about these years, in Poland 165 thousand were put into service. apartments. Then, over the years of your governments, at the end of your governments, i.e. in 2014-2015, this figure fell from 165 thousand. in 2008 to less than 150,000, while in our governments it (the bell) rose systematically to over 234 thousand. apartments. Ladies and gentlemen... I can only wait a minute, because there's still so much... How about in writing, Minister? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Maybe just a few of those. The question was how much money would be spent on construction for the poorest. This year it is PLN 2.2 billion if we adopt this law. The next question was what funds were transferred, what is the increase in 2022, so I will say: in 2020 it was PLN 111-112 million, in 2021 PLN 195 million and this year PLN 2.2 billion. Mrs Sroka asked about the number of SIMs. 39 new SIMs, plus 344 local governments. PLN 1 billion from the Government Housing Development Fund has been distributed and in this respect the SIMs declare the construction of more than 20,000. apartments. Thank you very much and once again, I ask you to accept the bill. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]] Thank you very much, Minister. In correction mode 15 seconds, Mr.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u262	The Minister misunderstood me. I said that between 2007 and 2015 1,200 thousand were put into service. apartments. That's all I said. 1,200 thousand. apartments. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: And now much more.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u263	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, contained in print 2133, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you, and thank you, Minister. I'm sorry to interrupt your speech, but we've got half an hour in the back thinking about what's gonna happen at an hour. Twenty-four, I'm gonna take it slow. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration (Print No. 2138). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The bill introduced will allow the automation of the process of handling cases handled by the National Tax Administration using the information systems of the National Tax Administration. The tool used in contacts with KAS authorities will be the IT system called: e-Tax Office. The tax office was implemented in February 2021. Since then, more than 66 million logins have been recorded. It is constantly developed, and new e-services of the KAS, so-called. e-Tax Office, to provide citizens and businesses with a package of coherent and complementary online services for comprehensive handling of PIT, CIT and VAT matters. They will facilitate the fulfilment of tax obligations, including payment of tax. Customers of the National Tax Administration via e-Tax Office can handle matters that do not require direct contact with KAS authorities for 24 hours a day 7 days a week. Currently, communication through the service runs one way, from the taxpayer to the authorities of the KAS. Thanks to the proposed statutory changes, e-Tax Office will enable bilateral communication of clients with KAS and KAS authorities with customers. Communication via an e-Share Office via a portal or mobile application will be legally equivalent to traditional activities. Today it is an information and transactional service for taxpayers, attorneys and notaries. We want to expand it to include further stakeholder groups, payers, attorneys and bailiffs. The E-Tax Office will be developed and the users of the service will be provided with further services, among others. the certification process will be automated. The logged-in user will automatically be able to obtain part of the certificates based on data collected in the CRDP. The draft law also proposes the exclusion of taxpayers' tax charges from the certificates issued by the e-Tax Office. The addition of this regulation is justified by the automation of the certification process and is intended to encourage taxpayers to take advantage of the opportunities that will be provided for in the e- tax office. This is also to speed up the process of switching KAS customers from direct contact to remote form. An IT tool, e-Concessions, will also be introduced to support the gambling market in the award and authorisation of gambling activities, including tendering procedures, and to supervise licensing and licensing entities. This solution will improve the licensing and authorisation process, eliminate paper circulation of documents related to administrative proceedings. It will also be possible to submit electronic applications and tenders together with the documentation necessary to resolve them. Given the high potential of the IT system and the high dynamics of the development of on-line services provided by the KAS authorities, the proposed legislative solution will make full use of the functionality of the system in order to make it easier for stakeholders to access and deal with tax authorities. The draft law also provides for changes to the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration, which exclude the obligation to send reminders prior to the initiation of administrative execution in the absence of a voluntary payment for the tax levy referred to in the Act of 27 October 1994 on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. Leaving this obligation would entail unnecessary duplication of the creditor's activities and an extension of the procedure for the recovery of that debt and the imposition of unjustified additional costs by the State Treasury. In turn, the changes introduced in the Tax Order aim to optimise the activities of tax offices, including the improvement of settlement with taxpayers. Such a form will ensure effective implementation of overpayments and eliminate the possibility of fraud by taxpayers who carry out one-off tax settlements in Poland, and on the date of implementation of refunds are located outside our country. This amendment will also reduce the cost of foreign postal transfers relating to overpayments to taxable persons residing outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Head of the National Tax Administration will be given the opportunity to share the data contained in the Central Register of Taxation Data to prosecutors, Police, Chairman of the KNF. The changes introduced will contribute to the effective identification, prevention and fight against crime of this nature. In view of the above, I ask the High House to adopt a draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Duda from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, print No. 2138. The digital revolution is not by chance called the industrial revolution. The transformations caused by the development of computerization and modern technologies, universal digitization have an increasing impact on all areas of our lives. A fast, secure and simple system is also necessary in the National Tax Administration. Therefore, the bill we are investigating is aimed at improving the handling of matters supported by the National Tax Administration by the use of state-of-the-art ICT systems. Of course, this is related to the amendment of previous laws, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Enforcement and Others, but the intended goal will certainly be achieved. According to the draft law, KAS will perform its tasks through the Central Register of Taxation Data, the Tax and Customs Electronic Services Platform or the e-Tax Office. Calls, notices, letters delivered to an account in the tax office will not be subject to payment. The National Chamber Council will provide National Tax Administration with access to letters for automatic verification. The Minister for Public Finance shall make available models of documents not requiring signature. The condition is, of course, to enter the current email and telephone number. It should be noted that the existing rules do not change if the taxpayer decides to remain in the current tax portal, but that the electronic transmission box will remain the appropriate communication channel between the NSA and the five stakeholder groups: the taxpayer, the proxy, the bailiff or the notary. It should be stressed that this is primarily a package of tools and services that will simplify and help to implement tax obligations, in a comprehensive way to deal with on-line issues mainly in the field of VAT, CIT and PIT. The project is very expected and needed. Law and Justice fully supports this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 1 March - a few days ago - it was 5 years since the creation of the National Tax Administration, or actually since the liquidation of the tax control, the only authority that effectively fought against the grey zone and tax pathology. To some extent, for three years, the KAS had been successful in the work of this service. For two years, however, we have seen an increase in the gray area, increased criminal activity. This is because KAS is a very weak institution, but taxpayers have also lost confidence in the state and its institutions. Chaos, legislative diarrhea, improbability of the law, rising real tax burden, at many moments completely incomprehensible. This is part of the project, which lacks system solutions to support taxpayers, especially entrepreneurs, in fulfilling tax obligations. This is particularly important in times of pandemic and war that we have today at our border. We have long called for the transformation of tax offices into tax services (Applause) which would support taxpayers in the correct fulfilment of their tax obligations, and not punish them for minor, unintended errors, and that actually repents and shows it recently. I very much regret that we regret that the achievements of the General Tax Law Codification Commission have not been used, which has prepared a comprehensive Tax Order. You threw her in the trash, and there were a number of solutions, such as. Incompetent forms of action by the tax authorities, which led to the fact that the information which the taxable person obtained from the tax office protected him from the consequences if he complied with that information. The right to consult, as well as legal protection resulting from the fact that his tax decision was consulted, an agreement with the tax officer. These are examples of solutions that need to be implemented in Poland as soon as possible. We welcome changes to improve the work of tax authorities, the service of taxpayers, institutions with information obligations such as notaries, bailiffs to the court or payers. Access to information, on-line handling, as well as exemption of certificates from the tax charge upon request in the system. These are very good solutions. They also enjoy handling solutions, but also the supervision of gambling operators. In many interpellations, I applied for irregularities, asked questions about irregularities in this market. A firm objection is raised by the amendment of the provision of the Article. 297 The tax administration, because it gives the special services unlimited access to any tax data, without any State control. CBA, ABW, Police, Prosecutors of Minister Ziobra will have access to the Central Register of Taxation Data as defined in Article. 35 laws on KAS, i.e. collected, analysed, processed data. And tax returns, and decisions, and resolutions, and executive titles, even the results of risk analyses and other documents passed on to tax authorities, so for the good of the whole JPK, information about schemes, VIES, National e-Factur system, all this will be available. This is not the way a democratic state should go, which should apply the principle of proportionality and can only make such data available in the event of a threat to the economic security of the State. Such a revision of the rules violates this principle of proportionality. I will repeat once again - they will have unlimited access to any databases of the National Tax Administration, without any control. It is also doubtful to withdraw cover solutions from the COVID laws, e.g. It's a job execution. The statement of reasons: drastic effects - we read in the statement of reasons - because a few hundred million have fallen (the bell) budgetary revenues from this. Let me remind you that we have a special situation abroad today. The economic situation is very difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u269	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u270	Withdrawal of eviction rules. These are solutions that raise our doubts, but we assume that they can be removed...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u271	I'm sure you do, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u272	...while working on this bill on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u273	Yes, of course. Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the Left Member's Club on the draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration in print No. 2138. The provisions of the proposed law were subject to public consultation a year and a half ago, as is apparent from the materials provided to us. It is good that they were consulted, but it is not known how much this law did not change its shape in relation to the one that was proposed a year and a half ago, and the fact that it waited so long raises the question of why, especially since the Members received it two days ago and had two days to get acquainted with it. So that we will present the final position of the parliamentary club of the Left after the second reading, after a detailed analysis of these entries in the finance committee. The very assumptions of the proposed law introducing automation and dealing with some of the matters supported by the National Tax Administration using the existing IT systems of the KAS are, of course, entirely correct. The tool used in relations with the regions is to be an e-Tax Office, which will be an information and transaction service for taxpayers, payers, agents, bailiffs, notaries. The Tax Office has in place a law, as we read, to provide citizens and businesses with a package of coherent and complementary online services for comprehensive handling of matters, mainly in the field of VAT, PIT and CIT. The changes introduced will exclude the costs of taxable persons related to the tax charge for certificates issued by the e-Tax Office. They will also reduce the cost of foreign postal transfers relating to overpayments to taxable persons who reside outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. It should be noted here that these changes made regarding the exemption from the obligation to pay the tax charge for certificates issued by the KAS authorities upon request made via the e-government will reduce the revenue of local government units for the tax charge. Those effects should therefore be added to and added to the budget of the JST, the revenue of the JST for this loss of revenue. However, in our view, changes will benefit taxpayers. Reduce the work intensity and costs of processing information, reduce the costs of handling cases, simplify forms and how they are completed and submitted, eliminate the submission of many detailed documents to date. You will be able to download, fill out and upload documents from anywhere, including from your own home or office. There will be online access to individual information from the tax area and the possibility of dealing with the tax on-line, including payments. That is what we read in the provisions of this law. Clou, on the other hand, will, of course, be included in the accompanying regulations. Here I would like to quote the opinion of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, with whom the project has been consulted and which brings, in order to include in the catalogue the types of cases that may be dealt with in this e-office, matters relating to registration into VAT of taxable persons who do not have their registered office or permanent place of business in Poland. At present, registration of a foreign entity for VAT in Poland requires a waiting period of about 75 days for the tax office's decision, as well as a cost of 1-3 thousand. Euros. By comparison, the same process takes only a week in the UK. It is also worth noting that during the registration process, traders cannot undertake any trade-related activities, which in many cases may discourage them from fulfilling their tax obligations properly. These issues could be addressed through the implementation of full digitisation of procedures. In this context, it is most important that the problem is addressed globally - that all elements of the process be digitised and not just those related to the submission of the proposal itself. This approach will allow for a real simplification of the current process. The planned functionality will be translated into an improvement in the situation of these taxpayers and thus an increase in the revenue from VAT due to the expansion of the taxable base, which will be able to carry out tax obligations in Poland electronically (the bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u275	Thank you very much, madam. Before I ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz from the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club, I cordially greet, which is an old custom, a group of young people from Konin, which Mr Tomasz Nowak brought us. [[Applause]] We are very grateful to you. And you can see what the hard work of Members and Messengers is in the stands. [[Some of them.]] I don't know why I'm seeing the expression of terror in your eyes right now, but I'm not gonna ask because I'm gonna ask. There you go, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. Jack, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are launching a debate - and further work - on a draft law amending certain laws to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The purpose of this regulation seems to be most appropriate and necessary at a time when electronic correspondence substantially and substantially replaces the traditional form of providing important, official information to the citizen through a letter mail, most frequently registered, i.e. issued after a personal receipt at the delivery service or at the post office of the Polish Post, which in itself constituted a difficulty in this communication and everyday life of every person. However, it is not a simple operation, because in order to be able to make full use of the information systems of the National Tax Administration, it is the government's view that it is necessary to inform us in the justification of the Act, to amend as many as 18 laws currently in force, including - I will list them all and tell you why - the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, the Law on Notariat, the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Registration and Identification of Taxpayers and Taxpayers, the Tax Order, the Act on Flat-rate Income Tax on Certain Income from Individuals, the Tax Code, the Tax Tax Tax Act, the Tax Tax Tax Tax Act, the Act on National Tax Administration, the Law on Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries, the Law on Merchants, and the Act which implements the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States on improving the fulfilment of international tax obligations and the implementation of the FATCA legislation. I would also point out that significant changes to two so-called changes are planned in this law. COVID laws which have been adopted to prevent, counteract and combat COVID-19 and the crisis situations caused by it and to cover the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Why am I listing these acts? I am doing this on purpose to make it clear to both parliamentarians sitting in the Chamber who are about to start working in committees on this project and then to vote in the plenary room and to see or listen to citizens that this seemingly technical project affects a very wide range of issues that can affect our daily functioning, especially in areas as sensitive as the settlement of natural persons and legal entities with the tax authorities of the Polish State. Here, in particular, interest and a very precise look deserves - whether it is required - Article. 297e of the proposed bill, which gives special services practically unlimited access to all data collected by the National Tax Administration on citizens of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, we expect a solid and careful legislative work in the relevant parliamentary committees, work without haste and superficiality, so suitable for the works of the PiS majority on projects of even the most important laws from the area of tax and financial regulation, which the best example was the unholy memory of the New Poland Load, which most likely, as all points out, goes to the infamous past. This diligence and reliability will also be expected when considering the proposed changes in the COVID laws in this draft, because they concern so socially sensitive issues such as the repeal of the enforcement procedures in place there 2 years ago from the residential premises, and the repeal of the restrictions imposed by those laws on the execution of remuneration for work, including the remuneration of the spouse. In conclusion, the Polish Coalition Club, which includes Members of the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, is in favour of directing this bill to further work in the parliamentary committees, hoping for a reliable work on the numerous changes proposed in print no. 2138. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u277	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this information. The votes are, as you know, shifted to hours. 4:30. Each of you received a text message about this ten minutes ago. Secondly, we do it this way: we finish this point, the discussion will continue, and after that point by hours. 4:30 p.m. is adjourned. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u278	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are countries that have a vision of digital development as early as the beginning, at the very beginning. Such a country is e.g. Estonia. There, the overall concept of the digital state was already created in the early 1990s and, moreover, until today, the central offices are sticking to this concept. It was a visionary concept based on one data rail. There are no problems with the exchange of these data, with the construction of further field systems - a project that is very few in the world. The Polish way to digitalization was much more bumpy. We had to face all the problems of the childhood period, e.g. The siloity of systems. Suddenly it turned out that two systems implemented within the same government do not have an interface, they are not able to communicate with each other. Until recently, the data exchange interface with Poles and Poles was extremely intuitive and made very unobvious messages. Problems in data exchange - to this day I remember stories from colleagues who implemented very important government systems and said that data was transferred from one to another on physical media. And yet, if there is anything I could commend the Government of the United Right in the last six years, it is for the development of digitalisation. A lot of services have emerged from governments that keep up and are often even equal to global trends: recipes, electronic evidence, widespread use of a trusted profile. You can even get worse in humor and check the number of penalty points on the driver's account online. More importantly, from a technological point of view, I have been seeing a great deal of emphasis for some time on the integrity of systems and on the issue of data exchange. It's worth appreciating. Just as it is worth recalling that the PiS state at every possible and impossible opportunity reaches without justification for our data. That, in turn, I find reprehensible. Besides, there is also an article in this submission that gives you access to any information collected on each tax or taxpayer. Of course, Poland 2050 will work on this submission. We believe that the electronic tax office is a very good solution. In fact, he already works in many ways today. I have doubts, of course. I wonder, for example, why this bill went to the Committee on Public Finance, not to the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. I am absolutely convinced that most of the provisions of this project would be much better placed in the substantive discussion (the bell) because of the knowledge and preparation represented by the composition of that committee. Another doubt. Why are we only adopting this project today? Looks like he was ready two years ago, even two years ago with a piece. Maybe instead of inventing Polish Lads and other recipes for a certain disaster, you could just do what you can and can do, what has purpose and meaning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u279	Mr President, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u280	Thank you very much. I just didn't want to praise you. [[Time's up.]] [[That's too bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u281	It's your business, but your time is up, and that's our business. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. There's eight of them. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. [[It took two minutes. We've got time.]] Here we go. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. Come in, come in, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The bill introduces automation of the handling of certain cases supported by KAS in the use of ICT systems. Persons using e-US will not bear the cost of the tax and the costs of the certificates issued. I have a question: What was the amount of revenue from these charges in 2021? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u284	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have a question about the writing of the article. 773, which states that the bailiff shall inform the parties, the parties involved in the proceedings, except for the debtor in charge of overpayment or refund of the tax, and the administrative enforcement authority of the grounds on which the judicial execution is based to the administrative enforcement authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u285	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u286	To the extent that this provision refers to the provision of an article. 902, which states that, quote: notice of seizure of overpayment and refund of tax and other related documents shall be served to the debtor of the seized debt by means of an electronic system or by means of electronic communication? Will this record not raise any question of interpretation? If the Minister fails to answer here, I will ask for the position of the Ministry on this matter in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u287	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Are you Mr Suchoń? All right. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. Okay, thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Member, there weren't two people, so just go crazy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u288	Oh, what a pleasure, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'm gonna talk about mistakes because what's good is what some people praised, but it's worth telling you how many mistakes you've made on this project. I wouldn't want this project to be called total surveillance in KAS bases because you're trying to change the article. 297 Tax Order and give CBA, ABW, Police, D.A.'s Office and KNF access to taxpayers' databases, to all databases. I don't think that's necessary in today's situation, especially KNF. But I also wanted to ask. You give the CBA access to this, and the CBA has not yet settled and has not provided information on the proceedings in connection with the 6 million PLN in the net. Then why are you giving them access to taxpayers' databases (the bell) and you haven't assessed these 6 million PLN cases yet? On the other hand, you are constantly proposing to seal the tax system, so I do not understand this justification. If we want to seal the tax system, transfer pricing solutions or transaction records of related parties are important. Unfortunately, you're extending your deadlines here, so you're failing. My third question concerns who will implement this system of e-Tax Office, because the institution of Critical Applications has so far failed poorly. How much money do you spend today? How much do you spend on the whole program and when will it be ready? And my last statement. prepared by the Civic Platform, by the codification committee, the transformation in tax law of tax offices in the tax services office of taxpayers, aimed at making it a friendly office, you threw the state into the basket. And what you're doing is making mistakes one step at a time. The Polish Lad becomes Polish disorder and we correct it indefinitely, this is the assessment of the situation. I would like this e-Tax Office to be much better for the taxpayer, and for total surveillance Poles certainly do not agree. Thank you, Marshal, for your madness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u289	Thank you very much. Crazy is sometimes advisable. Please, Mrs Violetta Porowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a major technological change, we all agree that for the better, as you have also acknowledged from the opposition, maybe not from Mrs Skowronska, but we are used to it. This change introduces modernity, greater availability, speed in contacts with the tax office, and thus - and it is worth mentioning - an increasingly friendly relationship with the entire tax administration. This is a good time to ask the question: Do you have knowledge - perhaps you are conducting, Minister, research on how these changes will be adopted by taxpayers? Not only by these taxpayers, but also by those rarely using e-services, e.g. older people. Will all matters be handled electronically? Will electronic service be mandatory? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u291	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the deadlines that are contained in the tax legislation that will now be improved. Well, there was a big problem with all the delivery of different letters or calls. How will this automation be made easier especially for those who are trying to recover something from others, their claim, and their problem was that they did not deliver a letter or something like that? Will there be any change in this matter? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're an MP. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u294	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no doubt as to the correctness of the introduction of automation of the ICT system, thereby improving services or bringing services closer to the citizen, the taxpayer. I have two questions. What will happen in the case of a judicial enforcement body with the National Tax Administration? Will the service of letters between the bailiff and the head of the tax office be carried out through the e- tax office or in a traditional form? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u295	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Anna Chalupa. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about the costs of the implemented project. As regards individual e-services and functionalities, they are financed by EU funds - from the OPPC programme. The total amount of the grant is 101 804 066,54 zł. The implementation of the entire project is planned until the end of September this year. The breakdown of expenditure and the way it is determined are the result of a feasibility study of this project. As regards the changes made regarding the exemption from the obligation to pay the tax fee for the certificates issued by the KAS authorities, I wanted to say first of all that the joint committee of the government and the local government accepted the draft law and agreed not to be charged. The funds from the fee were estimated at 16 800 000. per year. Of course, we will try to make up for the lack of this fee. We want them to receive money from the state budget in a different form. With regard to the types of cases to be dealt with in the e- tax office, this will be detailed in the regulation. The National Tax Administration fully agrees that it is necessary to examine how taxpayers, customers, entrepreneurs evaluate our work. We are constantly investigating the level of satisfaction in terms of cooperation with the National Tax Administration. It is from taxpayers that we know that they would like to be able to handle matters with our tax offices remotely. Therefore, the initiative to improve this cooperation. I would also like to point out that the fact that the head of the National Tax Administration has been given the opportunity to share the data that are in the Central Register of Taxation Data to prosecutors, police and KNF President is the only change. Intelligence Agency, ABW and CBA have already had this opportunity. We're simply expanding it as expected. We want to contribute to a more effective identification and fight against crime, especially crime of a tax nature, and to combating it. We can already see the results of the functioning of the e-Share Office. During the first month of operation of the service, your e-PIT Poles have already submitted more than 4 million PIT declarations by the e-Tax Office. This decision-making application has a good reputation among taxpayers. I would also like to point out that the introduction of this bill will have a positive impact on more than 30 million taxpayers It is about handling PIT, CIT and VAT taxes. The whole process will take so long because we want to have a broad consultation with attorneys, prosecutors, bailiffs and notaries so that the service is adequate to the tasks that these institutions perform. Any data exchange and correspondence will also be automated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u297	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, contained in print No 2138, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Roger that.]] I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 4:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 09 hours 16 min 36]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u298	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. We'll proceed in a moment to check the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 444 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, another sad news today. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Ludwik Dorn, Marshal of the Sejm of the 5th term of office, Member of the Sejm II, IV, V, VI and VII term of office, in 2005-2007 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Co-founder of the Law and Justice Party, Vice President of the Party in 2001-2007, died today. I would ask Mr Antoni Macierewicz to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Louis Dorn was a Boy Scout of the Republic of Poland, he was a Boy Scout 1. Warszawska Squad Boy Scouts im. Romualda Traugutta. He was co-founder of the Polish independence movement since the 1970s, one of the organizers of support for Polish workers in 1976, later co-organizer of the Workers' Defence Committee, co-organizer of the Independent Student Association. He was a man who co-created the most important Christian, independent political parties: Christian-National Unification, Center Agreement and above all Law and Justice. He was an incredibly brave, determined and outstanding Polish patriot. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We remember you, Louis, and we'll remember you forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u300	Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. This term is extremely sad because we say goodbye at practically every meeting. That's sad. [[We said goodbye to the marshal.]] The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2163. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. In fact, the committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - medical devices, - amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. These reports shall be printed in 2146 and 2150 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the protection of national heritage associated with the names of public spaces and monuments, - amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, - amending the Act - Water Law, - about the creation of the Maritime Technology University in Szczecin. The reports shall be printed in 2162, 2151, 2137 and 2136 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted draft resolutions: - commemorating the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on 10 April 1992. - commemorating the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia on 10 April 1992. Draft resolutions are printed in 2122 and 2123 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment we will proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda, i.e. the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on 10 April 1992, print No 2122. I would like to warmly welcome Mr Tomislav Vidošević, Ambassador of the extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Republic of Croatia, who is listening to this part of today's sitting. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on 10 April 1992 (Print No 2122). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on 10 April 1992. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland welcomes the traditionally very good relations between the Polish Republic and the Republic of Slovenia, and wishes to note that they are based on their attachment to shared values - freedom, democracy and solidarity. We share membership of the European Union and NATO, as well as intensive bilateral dialogue at government, parliamentary and local level. In addition, regional policy is an important area of cooperation between the two countries, including, above all, the Tri-marine Initiative, serving our countries, the region of Central Europe and the European Union as a whole. The Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia also have a similar view of the future of the European Neighbourhood, including support for the process of bringing the Western Balkans region closer to the European Union, as well as a view of the main security challenges of our region. On the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia, the Polish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the last 30 years have been characterised by friendly cooperation, and expresses its hope for its comprehensive development. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on 10 April 1992. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and the Republic of Croatia on 10 April 1992 (Print No 2123). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia on 10 April 1992. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to stress traditionally very good relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia, which are based on the attachment to shared values - freedom, democracy and solidarity. Both our countries combine membership of the European Union and NATO, understanding the importance of regional cooperation, including in the Tri-Morch format, which together with Croatia we are co-initiators, as well as intensive bilateral dialogue at government, parliamentary and local level. The Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia have a similar view of the future of the integration of the Western Balkan countries with the European Union, which both our countries actively support, understanding the importance of this process to complete the area of security, stability and prosperity in Europe. On the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia, the Polish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the last 30 years have characterised friendly cooperation at many levels and in many formats, and expresses its hope for further development in the future. I also propose that you accept by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and the Republic of Croatia on 10 April 1992. We have formal requests. Please, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u301	Dear Marshal! I submit a request for a break and a call for the Senior Convention to put on the agenda the information of the Prime Minister, who is present, on the actions of the Attorney General on the prosecution of war crimes in Ukraine and on the assistance of the Minister of Justice to the victims of these crimes. The scale and cruelty of war crimes in Ukraine have struck us all. Mass rapes by drunken Russian soldiers on women and children have exceeded a scale that could be accepted in this respect that we would be able to take note of this. Meanwhile, the Attorney General, who boasts that he will pursue and prosecute war crimes, is blocking aid for victims of violence and rape. [[Applause]] Amendment on psychological assistance from the Justice Fund - blocked (The Bell), amendment mobilising prosecutors to assist victims of rape in terms of pregnancy termination - blocked. How do you guys feel about that? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u302	Thank you very much, Member. The Prime Minister asked for the floor at the beginning, and you will be speaking on this subject, following the formal proposals. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The Prime Minister will speak on this matter, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is absolutely outrageous. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The Member absolutely does not listen to the voice of the Ministry of Justice, the National Public Prosecutor's Office, the voice of the Prosecutor-General. The prosecutor from the international prosecutor's office came here, they were at the border, it is known that the Poles initiated investigations into crimes that are being committed in Ukraine. How can you say that? Why are you lying? There's no such thing. A special team is being formed. You lie, manipulate, mislead the public. That's not true. [[Member Anita Kucharska-Heir: How do you help the victims?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u304	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I think it's time to go out here, to the platform and present the government's strategy for combating inflation and high interest rates to the Poles and Poles, because what we just heard at the conference of President Glapiński is simply terrifying. You want to keep pumping the debt and buying it through the central bank. This is ridiculous. You really want to let go of the Poles with bags. Uh-huh. Together with the President of Glapiński, you encouraged Poles to take credit mass, promising them that the credit eldorado will last forever. Do you know how much more interest rates have to be paid by Poles today after the interest rate increases in mortgage portfolios? More than PLN 22 billion - more will disappear from Polish and Polish wallets through your fiscal and monetary policy over the past 6 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get out here and tell the Poles what you're going to do about it. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u306	Thank you very much, Member. This warrant of yours is not part of the formal application form. Please, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I submit a formal application for the adoption of the confidentiality of the sitting so that the Prime Minister can present information about the Russian-Belarusian sabotage which may threaten communication of the Polish government, the Polish army, the Polish services. The threat has to do with the attorney-in-chief's pressure. the cybersecurity bill, according to which a strategic telecommunications network is to be built, which will be used by the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, will be used by all of us here, Members. According to this plan, the network is to be based on a frequency that has been jammed for years, jammed by Russia and Belarus. What's more, the media reported a few days ago that the service was alerting. An appropriate note has been given on this subject. I have a question for Prime Minister Kaczyński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're going to Ukraine to Kiev, you want to defend Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u308	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u309	Why don't you take care of basic, elementary security? If Minister Kaminski has not informed you of this threat... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u310	Mr President, if you quote... Mr Kulesza, do you really not hear me? If you are referring to an article in the Rules of Procedure, you should know that you must have at least 30 signatures from 30 Members in order to make such a request. Thank you. [[Applause]] There you go, Mr Boris Budka... [[...30 signatures...]] It's not serious what you're saying right now. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u311	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a 15-minute break so that Prime Minister Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, would stand before the High House and apologize for supporting the people who are blowing up Europe from the inside today. [[To the opposition.]] Not only is your friend Orbán (Mounting in the Chamber), whom you have supported in the elections and who considers President Zelenski to be his enemy, but you are also on Mrs Le Pen's side. You drove her on roosters in Poland, accepted her as the head of state. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today is rehearsal time. Today, our attitude towards these anti-European politicians sets the boundaries of Polish security and everyone who sits next to Le Pen or near Orbán acts against the Polish state's right (Applause) and this is classified as treason (the national bell). Please leave, apologise and make it clear that you will not support anti-European politicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, you don't have to appeal because I've already announced it twice. The Prime Minister asked for a vote before he started, and there is no need for a break, because the Prime Minister now has... Please, Prime Minister, you asked for the floor. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Can I make the opposite of that? But I'm gonna make the opposite of it.]] [[Voice from the room: Shoo! Kaleta, take your seat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Russian crimes in Ukraine write the darkest chapters of Europe's history in the 21st century. Today we have a special time, a special time, a time of political reset, zeroing out a lot of previous events, disputes. Today, Poles showed huge hearts. We as Poles, as a nation, have shown the will to unite, the will to fight. [[Applause]] Let's not waste this moment of history. Let us not waste this because we are building a great capital for the Republic of Poland, a great capital not only for years, but for decades before us. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The crimes we're witnessing in Ukraine are something that didn't come to anyone's mind two months ago. These crimes we hear about, in Buch, in Irpien, in Borodzinka, in Mariupol, in Hostomel and probably in dozens of other cities, towns, towns, villages that we do not yet know about, but which we will hear about, are today's map of genocide in Europe. In the face of such a tragedy, let us not only preserve the seriousness of today, but let us look at what is ahead of us, as a test, as a historical moment where our rightness of state must be a little different. It's also understood than what happened here today in this room. I'll comment on that in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! What we're dealing with, the pictures we're watching... I show them at the European Council to my colleagues, Western European leaders, and they wipe out their eyes, they don't believe, but at the same time realize that the current policy of the last 5, 10, 15 years has been a policy of cowardice. [[Applause]] We have to move away from this policy. We must leave this policy because today we see that what is happening in Ukraine is purely Soviet methods. We We know these Soviet methods. This communist school of tying hands in the back, blindfolding, gunshot to the back of the head. We know these methods perfectly well, we Poles. We know what this might threaten, and we know very well that this is not happening on its own. They're not just cruel, sadistic Russian soldiers. Yeah, that's how they are. But the consent goes from the top. We all read the entire article in RIA Novosti, the official government Russian press agency. An article in which the author has spoken a language that we have not heard since the 1950s, since the Stalinist years, and even more - since the 1940s, since the years of Nazi Germany. He talks about deukrainisation in the language Hitler used and Stalin used. Ladies and gentlemen! Our task is to bring peace back, but our task is also to bring justice, to restore justice and therefore Poland calls for an international commission to investigate Russian crimes in Ukraine. [[Applause]] This committee must consist of many experts from different countries, doctors, pathologists, specialists, lawyers - all those who, without a shadow of a doubt, determine what is happening in Ukraine, with the words that should be defined. Because Russia is breaking all the Geneva conventions against prisoners today, against civilians, women and children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is happening in Ukraine today, what Russia is doing, is unimaginable. But it is also good that we realize those mistakes that have been made in the past actually by many. And like us Poles, xenophobia has been told, we remember it perfectly. Whose business was that in? It was, of course, in the Russian interest. Today, the Polish nation, which receives millions of Ukrainians with its heart, shows true Polish hospitality, true heart. [[Applause]] Today we show that so-called. xenophobia was pure Russian propaganda. Or maybe it's not just the Russians, it's also coming from those who had it in their hand. Who cared about us being considered Russophobes, I'll leave without comment, and Rusophobia is an invented charge. On the other hand, in Poland there was far-reaching Rusophilia, because too many centres in Poland looked at Russia with squinted eyes. We weren't the ones talking about the project. Nord Stream 2 as a business project. We weren't the ones who were talking about the Germans saving us from this oppression, the same Germans who had been building us for 15, 16 years. Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, the main weapon tool for the Russian army. [[Applause]] But you know what? Let's just leave it. Let us leave this, because today the most important thing is to talk common sense to everyone in Europe and western and eastern, especially in Hungary, that what is happening is absolutely unacceptable. If someone doesn't see a crime in Ukraine today, he doesn't call it by name, he's making a giant mistake. This mistake must be withdrawn as soon as possible. [[Applause]] There is no such thing as our consent regardless of whether it's our western neighbour, our southern neighbour, whether it's Hungary, whether it's France, or any politician in France, Germany, Hungary, Austria or other countries, because it happens. We're not allowed to do that. [[Applause]] [[Room vote: Bravo, Prime Minister!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! However, we also need to name other things by name, because to this day there are those who want to function normally with Russia, they want the situation to return to - as it is said - business as usual, so that everything will return to such normality - and let us forget about what happened. You wanted cheap raw materials and holy peace, and you have expensive raw materials and war. [[Coal, for example.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to raise awareness of everyone in Western Europe together, because there is a real decision-making centre in Brussels and Washington, London and Berlin, so that there is no agreement on what is happening today in Ukraine. We can only do this together. And that's what I'm appealing for, and that's what I'm calling for here today. [[Applause]] This will be rare, but I will thank - perhaps even for the first time - the European Parliament for its clear position. A few weeks after us, as well as the leaders of the Western countries, receive the sanctions that we talked about a few weeks earlier. Today, the European Parliament said exactly what I said, what we said two weeks ago, three weeks ago: these sanctions are not working, Russia is still holding on economically, let us immediately stop buying raw materials from Russia. Today, the European Parliament calls for this, and I thank you for that. This is the unity we need (Applause), unity over divisions against the deadly threat, the Russian danger. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak today about a law which, thanks to the Members of the Law and Justice, has come to the session of the Sejm, which has a direct bearing on what we are talking about today, has two fundamental issues. The first concerns sanctions. This law contains one of the two elements on which all experts agree that they are most able to stop Putin's war machine. It's impounded. Don't freeze. What do we do after freezing the yachts where the Russian oligarch party is still taking place off the coast of western Europe? That's not what this is about, is it? That's not what we're all after, is it? We're talking about a real hit on Putin's war machine. What could it be? Well, that's what Poland is talking about so far, until recently, the only one, but maybe soon others will also talk about it, especially if this side also comes to us in a sucurs. That's what I'm asking. So the confiscation of the assets of the Russian oligarchs and the confiscation of the assets of the Russian Federation located in the Western banks. Let's do it together. [[Applause]] Let's do it together, please. [[Voice from the room: Do it too.]] [[Voice from the room: Do it now.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] For this we need to convince not Budapest... [[So many days have passed, Prime Minister, and you're still wondering.]] ...good news, that's what we need to convince Berlin, Brussels, Paris and London. [[Applause]] [[And that's why you support Le Pen.]] Let's do it together. That's what I'm calling for from here today. [[Room vote: Bravo, Prime Minister! Bravo!]] This record, its final shape may be dissected here... [[Stop China.]] ...we're open to it. But according to what we announced with the President three weeks ago in KPRM, calling, asking the opposition to meet us, today we are doing it in the spirit of the credibility of Law and Justice. Today, this confiscation bill goes to the Sejm... [[It's been ours for a dozen days and you've been waiting for an opinion on our bill.]] ...because very crushing sanctions are needed (Applause), including cutting off Russian raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me rephrase this basic postulate: it's not just an alloy with Russian oil, gas and coal purchases. [[Voice from the room: Accept our bill.]] [[Our bill has been in place for two weeks.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] The most important thing is what Reagan did in the '80s. These are low commodity prices. Low commodity prices are primarily secondary sanctions and the departure from Russian hydrocarbons. [[Do it.]] Therefore, our entire policy today, in this era of reset, is also going in this direction: the least Russian gas, Russian oil, Russian coal (Applause) and the blockade of secondary sanctions so that they cannot sell to other countries. These are real sanctions. These are the actions that are able to stop the machine... [[The voice from the hall: Then stop bringing in this Russian coal.]] ...the war of Vladimir Putin. Let's do it together. That's what we need... [[Do it.]] ...to stop the crimes of genocide that we are unfortunately dealing with. [[Voice from the room: Enough talking.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second extremely important issue, the key one we promised, is our security. Today we have a special moment in history. The moment when we can take care of our safety together, when we can resist a deadly attack. When, except in 1920, for the first time in over 300 years, we will be able to hold our fate in our own hands and defend our freedom, our sovereignty. Therefore, along with this bill will go to the Sejm, you can say, supplementing the Act on the Defense of the Homeland. This is a logical addition, if we included them - what I am talking about now - into that law, we would have to wait a few months for it to be passed. That bill was passed. Thank you for that. She was accepted by a vast, overwhelming majority. But you know very well, from simple financial mathematics, it is clear that in order to be able to carry out enormous, huge, up to several hundred billion zlotys of arms purchases, we need to free ourselves in this one scope only from the 60% constitutional limit. [[There's a bill in the Seym.]] This will also be a test for what the real intentions of everyone here in this House are as to defending our homeland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're part of NATO, it's extremely important. It's a key piece of information for our safety. Very well, but we also want to be able to defend ourselves. We know very well that no one is defended unless they defend themselves, at least for a long time. Look at Ukraine today. It is precisely the fact that they defend themselves with great determination, will fight, allows others to help them also in the supply of defense weapons. It allows them to continue, to fight for the greatest values. That is why, both in these sanctions and in these constitutional changes, we are in the avant-garde, we are indeed in the hands of the European countries that are changing the legal system in their home so as to be able to respond properly to today's challenges. Today we stand guard of universal values. European, Christian, universal values: freedom, the right to life, justice and solidarity. [[Applause]] I therefore ask the High House to take a positive approach to this second major amendment to the basic law that we are calling for. And to the legislative process that we are now entering. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll end up like I started. Today we observe exceptional events in the history of the 21st century. Let's stop them together. Let us take advantage of this great, unique opportunity which was born for Poland - from this historical resett, to increase the prestige of Poland. From this wonderful gratitude, which the whole free world has towards Poland. Let's not waste it, let's take care of it together. Long live Poland, long live sovereign Ukraine! [[Some Members get up, give a tumultuous applause]] [[Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u314	Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act on the National Court Register. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2142. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2142? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the National Court Register Act. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2098-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u315	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I would like to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure, Print No 2027 and 2098-A. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications after considering the amendments tabled at its second reading meeting on 7 April 2022 makes the following amendments: Article. 1 in point 1, delete Article. 388
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u316	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2098. The Commission is also presenting amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on Amendment 1, which is linked to Amendment 2. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 225 for, 228 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2098 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 311 - for, 11 - against, abstained 135. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2139-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No 2110. Two amendments were tabled in the second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, asks the High Sejm to reject two amendments and to accept the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u318	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2139. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. We are voting on Amendment 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 219 - for, 230 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 196 - for, 244 - against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2139 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 267 for, 3 against, with 187 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2141-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2109. The Sejm at its meeting yesterday, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in prints 2109 and 2141 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendment at its meeting today, asks the High Sejm to reject the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u320	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2141. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. We are voting on the amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 88 for, 239 against, holding 130. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, in print no. 2141, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 454 - for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the Government bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, National Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2145-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Agatha Katarzyna Wojtyszek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs-Scarb Service and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, print No 2108. At its 52nd meeting of 6 April 2020, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2145 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. During the committee's work, the committees considered 21 amendments tabled. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence, after considering these amendments, request that the High Sejm reject the amendments. At the same time, committees recommend a joint vote on amendments 1, 2, 11 and 12, 3, 9, 17, 19 and 20, 4, 10, 18 and 21, 7, 8, 14 and 15 and 13 and 16. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u322	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2145. The committees also present minority proposals and, in an additional report, amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on Amendments 1, 2, 11 and 12. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 2, 11 and 12? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are now voting together on amendments 3, 9, 17, 19 and 20. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 4, 7, 8, 10, 14, 15, 18 and 21. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3, 9, 17, 19 and 20? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 230 - against, abstained 13. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are now voting on Amendment 4, including Amendments 10, 18 and 21. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 7, 8, 14 and 15. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 4, 10, 18 and 21? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 5. The committees are filing for rejection. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 7, including Amendments 8, 14 and 15. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 7, 8, 14 and 15? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 216 - for, 230 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are now voting together on the 1st and 2nd minority proposal. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 13 and 16. Who is in favour of the first and second minority proposals? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 53 - for, 242 - against, 162 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are now voting together on Amendments 13 and 16. The committees are asking for their rejection. Who is in favour of Amendments 13 and 16? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 55 - for, 241 - against, 161 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2145? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 455 - for, against - 1, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families, the Act on pension provision of police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Intelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service, the Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guards, the Marshal's Guard, the State Security Service, the State Fire Department, the Customs and Carboy Service and the Prison Service and their families and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2144-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee an additional report on the Government's draft law on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team, print 2132. The report itself is from print No 2144-A. The Sejm at its 52nd meeting on 6 April 2022, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2144 to the Committee on Health to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Health Commission, after considering the amendments today, requests amendments 1, 3 and 6 to be rejected and amendments 2, 4, 5 and 7 to be accepted and asks the entire High House to accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u324	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2144. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 7th amendment futile. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 453 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's working, ladies and gentlemen. Who doesn't work? I'll check it out myself. Who doesn't work? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's already working.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Who? Liars, no... 457 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 229, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 227 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 449 - for, 1 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2144, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a bill on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team. We would like to return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific measures to combat the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to protect national security. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2165-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u325	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the joint committees a report on the government draft law on specific measures to combat the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to protect national security, prints 2131 and 2131-A. The law introduces sanctions which are aimed at the Russian Federation, and is an expression of our solidarity and support for the fighting for Ukraine's freedom. The Commissions, after considering the amendments, ask the High Sejm to accept Amendment 6, in which we delete Article. 5, and amendment 14, which clarifies the records. The committees ask the High Sejm to reject the remaining amendments and adopt the bill in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u326	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2165. The committees also present minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Amendments 8 and 9 were withdrawn by the applicants. We are voting on Amendment 1, including 2 and 13. The committees are asking for their rejection. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 4 and 14 futile. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 2 and 13? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 224 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. For - 217, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 457 - for, no one was against, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 213 - for, 231 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting together on minority proposals 1 and 5. Who among you is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 215-- for, 241-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are now voting together on minority proposals 2 and 6. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 10 and 17. Who is in favour of minority proposals 2 and 6? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 217 - for, 242 was against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. Together, we are voting on Amendments 10 and 17. The committees are asking for their rejection. Who is in favour of Amendments 10 and 17? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 186 - for, 242 was against, 30 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting together on minority proposals 3 and 4. Who is in favour of minority proposals 3 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 217 - for, 231 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 241 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 238 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 319 - for, 127 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Together, we are voting on Amendments 15 and 16. The committees are asking for their rejection. Who is in favour of Amendments 15 and 16? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 210 for, 232 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2165, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on special solutions to combat the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to protect national security. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws (Prints No. 2096, 2117 and 2117-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws, print no. 2096. Sejm at 51. Meeting on 24 March this year. again referred the draft law contained in prints 2096 and 2117 to the committee for consideration of the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 5 April, asks: The High Sejm must reject all four amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u328	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law from print No 2117. The Commission sets out, in an additional report, the amendments that we will be voting on first. Together, we are voting on Amendments 1 and 3. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 227 for, 230 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 226 - for, 229 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 225 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2117 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 437 for, 1 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the National Heritage Act related to the names of public spaces and monuments (Prints 2124 and 2162). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the National Heritage Act relating to the names of public spaces and monuments, print No 2124. On 25 March, the Sejm Marshal addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. At its meeting on 6 April, both committees agreed at the joint meeting that they were requesting the Senate's resolution to be rejected by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u330	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 24 February 2022 on the protection of national heritage associated with the names of public spaces and monuments. The committees are asking for this resolution to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 24 February 2022 on the protection of national heritage associated with the names of public spaces and monuments, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 238 - for, against - 215, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the Senate resolution on the National Heritage Protection Act related to the names of public spaces and monuments. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Occupational Pensions and the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and Individual Pension Insurance Accounts (Prints No. 2125 and 2151). I ask Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate presented three amendments to the Act amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. Public Finance and Social Policy Committees recommend that all three amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u332	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. We are voting on Amendment 1. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Two for, against 452, no one stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the second Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. Two for, against - 440, 11 stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the third amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the third Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, 454 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employee Pension Schemes and the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and Individual Pension Insurance Accounts. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Water Law (prints Nos 2126 and 2137). I ask Mr Szałabawka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Water Law, print Nos 2137 and 2126. The joint committees on 5 April 2022 considered three amendments prepared by the Senate and recommended that they be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u334	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the Senate's first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm really trying to speed up as much as I can. 454 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 453, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the second Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was in favor of, against - 455, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the third Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - Water Law. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Medical Devices (Prints 2128 and 2146). I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Senate's adoption of the Act on Medical Devices. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Health Committee on 25 March for consideration. The Health Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 6 April, asks the High Sejm to approve the amendment set out in points 1 and 3, reject the remaining amendments. It recommends that amendments 2 and 6 be voted in total, 4 and 5 vote in total, and 7 and 8 and 9 also vote in total. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u336	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on Amendment 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the Senate's first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, 12 stopped. The Senate amendment rejected. We are voting on Amendments 2 and 6 together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who is against Amendments 2 and 6? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, against -442, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the third Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 217 - against, abstained 9. The Senate amendment rejected. We are now voting together on Amendments 4 and 5. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. Who is against Amendments 4 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 453, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the Senate's amendments. Together, we are voting on amendments from 7 to 9. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th to 9th amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 442, 11 holding back. The Senate's amendments accepted. At this we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Act on Medical Devices. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws (Prints 2129 and 2150). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm sent a resolution of the Senate on 25 March on the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws, print No. 2129, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 6 April, asks the High Sejm to vote on legislative amendments from 1 to 3, from 5 to 10, 13, 14 and from 18th to 20. adopt amendments 12 and 15 to 17 by voting on them together, substantive amendments 4 and 11 by rejecting amendment 21. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u338	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting together on amendments 1 to 3, 5 to 10, 13, 14 and 18 to 20. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Whoever opposes the amendments from 1st to 3rd, from 5th to 10th, 13th, 14th and 18th to 20th, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 1 for, against - 455, no one stopped. The Senate's amendments accepted. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 1 for, against -454, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. No one was for, 445 against, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting together on the 12th amendment and amendments from 15. to 17. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is against Amendments 12 and 15 to 17? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 357 - for, against - 70, abstained 30. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on Amendment 21. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 21st Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 260 - for, 196 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. At this end we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the adoption of the Senate on the Act establishing the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin (prints 2127 and 2136). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Education of Science and Youth considered the Senate resolution on the Law on the Establishment of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. The committees recommend the adoption of four amendments to the Senate. This is a bill that is very important to Szczecin and the whole Western Pomerania. Raising the Maritime Academy to the rank of polytechnics will give the university a strong wind in the sails, and will contribute to building its strong brand as a university training professional personnel for the needs of the maritime economy. I ask the High House to accept four amendments to the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u340	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who among you is against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was against-- 457, no one held back. The Senate amendment accepted. [[Applause]] We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for her party. Who's against the second Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was against - 447, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. Amendments 3 and 4 are voted together. The committees are filing for their admission. Who is against Amendments 3 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was for, 456 against, no one held back. The Senate's amendments accepted. At this end we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the creation of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the District Attorney in Warsaw of 23 October 2020 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the motion for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request by the District Attorney in Warsaw of 23 October 2020, to give the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the actions set out in this request, will press the button. [[A woman's boxer.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 227, against - 218, 1 abstained. The Sejm, against the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the actions specified in the application of the District Attorney in Warsaw of 23 October 2020. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to remind you that the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 has requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point covering the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law, print Nos 1814 and 1831. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We proceed to the vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point covering the committee's report on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Your marshal, after the vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. In the meantime, I'm going to announce that after the vote is over, I'm going to call the Convention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: No reconnaissance.]] [[Voice from the room: until 2:00 a.m.]] 454 Members voted. 225 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2163). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2163, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 409 - for, 3 - against, suspended 18. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. Enjoy the Convention in the living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 29 hours 19 min 38]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u341	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on the Copernicus Academy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (print No 2070). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present the legislative initiative of the head of state - a draft law on the Copernican Academy. The aim of the project presented by your President is to increase the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science in the world. The project refers to the history of Polish science by commemorating one of the most famous and outstanding Polish scientists Mikołaj Kopernik, whose 550th anniversary will be celebrated on 19 February next year. According to the project, the first global Copenhagen convention in Toruń is planned on this day. The commemoration of this outstanding scientist is not a monument, but it is intended to serve Polish science, especially in international cooperation, in selected, associated fields such as mathematics, physics, astronomy or medicine. The proposal for a law on the Copernicus Academy proposes the creation of a new, different scientific institution, namely the Copernicus Academy. The main task of the academy will be the implementation of the National Copernican Programme, which according to the project is to cover the financing of research, including the award of Copernican scholarships and grants by Nicolaus Copernicus, the support of the Nicolaus Copernicus School of Main, the award of Copernican prizes. These prizes in a substantial amount of 500,000. PLN, indicated in the project, will be awarded through a competition for outstanding scientific achievements of crucial importance. It is planned to be one prize a year, followed by astronomy, economics, medicine, philosophy or theology and law. The winners will become members of the academy on the day they receive the prize. It is planned that the first prize will be awarded in 2023. It is planned that other tasks under the Copernican National Programme will be: the appointment of ambassadors of the Copernican Academy, the organisation of the next global Copenhagen conventions, the preparation of conferences and symposiums and international cooperation. The Academy is a new scientific institution, it will have a relatively simple organizational structure and a relatively small organizational base. According to the draft law, the Academy will create six chambers in areas traditionally related to those in which the scientific activity was carried out by Nicolaus Copernicus. It is planned that there will be a general assembly, a secretary-general and a presidium of the academy. Each Chamber will consist of 10 to 20 members appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Assembly. The bill regulates the status and scope of the academy's competence, but what is worth emphasising, its details, the further basis of functioning will be in the statutes which will adopt the general assembly of the academy. As I mentioned earlier, the bill provides for the creation of a structurally related public university - the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School. The school will be a public university operating in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and Science. Although Warsaw will be the seat of the school, the President proposes that integrated units operate throughout the country, and accordingly: the College of Astronomy and Natural Sciences in Toruń, the College of Medical Sciences in Olsztyn, the College of Economic Sciences and Management in Warsaw, the College of Philosophy and Theology in Krakow and the College of Legal Sciences in Lublin. According to the proposed final provision, the Act is foreseen to enter into force on 1 September 2022 with the exception of the provisions concerning primary school, the entry into force of which is scheduled to enter into force on 1 March 2023. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the President, I hope that the proposed solutions will meet with the support of the High House and will be submitted for further work. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u343	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Witold Czarnecki to give his position to the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club on the proposal of the President for a law on the Copernican Academy, Parliamentary Printing No. 2070. According to the authors of the project in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the act is to increase the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science. This is a very worthy and glorious goal, especially given the fact that Polish science is not satisfactory today. For example, in the last ranking of 26 October 2021 covering 1750 United States News and World Best Global Universities, where 75% ranking scales are hard scientific data taken from the Web of Science base, only eight Polish universities were in the first thousand best universities and the remaining 33 were in the tail of the list. The number of 41 universities in 1750 may seem quite large, but still distant, 320. place of the leader, UJ-otu is certainly not satisfactory for a country such as Poland, almost 40 million years old. Returning to the draft law on the Copernicus Academy, it must be said that the establishment of the Academy will be a certain closure of the reform process, which in turn included the establishment of the NCBiR, i.e. The National Centre for Research and Development, even under the rule of Jarosław Kaczyński, then the establishment of the National Centre for Science by the government of PO-PSL. Then the establishment of the National Academic Exchange Support Agency and the Łukasiewicz Network. Then we're going to close this trial. Here comes the 550th anniversary of Nicolaus Copernicus. The creation of the Copernican Academy will be a beautiful celebration of the memory of this most outstanding Polish scholar. So far, no one has found a better idea to celebrate this anniversary. The mission of the National Copernican Programme carried out by the Academy is to increase the level of research conducted by Polish scientists or cooperating with other scientists. This programme includes funding research, supporting the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School, awarding Copernican prizes, appointing Copenhagen ambassadors, organizing congresses, symposiums, international cooperation - these are the main objectives. The Academy will be composed of six schools: the Chamber of Astronomy and Mathematical Sciences, the Chamber of Medical Sciences, the Chamber of Economic Sciences, the Chamber of Philosophy and Theology and the Chamber of Legal Sciences and the Chamber of laureates. Each chamber shall consist of between 10 and 20 members, but not more than 100. The first composition of the academy is envisaged, not more than 50 members appointed by the President at the request of the Minister for Science and Higher Education. The Academy Office and the Centre for Research of Nicolaus Copernicus will also operate in the structure of the academy outside the chambers. The bill provides for the establishment of the Nicolaus Copernicus Primary School, which is closely linked to the academy, with the powers corresponding to the scientific category B+. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in my opinion, there is insufficient estimates of the expenditure needed from the budget to achieve these objectives. It seems incredible to organize a world convention for a million zlotys. This amount seems quite poorly estimated. This project is an opportunity for me and we can win it and lead to a great work or we can screw it up if we want to save too much on this project (the bell), because otherwise with an empty one and Solomon doesn't pour it, it just needs bigger... Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law proposed by the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Barbara Nowack. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Polish science requires great expenditure, great heart, good ideas and good solutions. Promotion of Polish science, and giving it this world rank is a priority for all of us here in this room. Only when I'm reading a project about Copernican Academy, I wonder who planted this project for you. The project is written badly, a project that is incompatible with the Law on Higher Education and Science, a project that is poorly prepared financially, a project that contains strange solutions that will not help Polish science. Yes, the Copernican Academy is being established and will be awarded scholarships and grants. It will be very close to the existing, recognized in the world of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The difference is that in the Polish Academy of Sciences there are experts, specialists, people with scientific experience, and here the first appointment will be appointed by Minister Czarnek. In this connection, you create an academy for Minister Czarnek, duplicated the function of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Polish Academy of Skills, and you also say, otherwise rightly, that you are also doubling Nawa. The question is, who's gonna be behind this and who's gonna benefit from it. Copernican Scholarships, Copenhagen grants - very good ideas, only again, weird criteria, very high amounts, often inadequate for science, although the promotion of science requires good solutions and some of these solutions can be tried to implement, but should this be done by law? The bizarre creation is the Nicolaus Copernicus High School. The headquarters in Warsaw, five different colleges, nowhere in the law is described how you will create these colleges. We know, however, that they will be entitled to the first, second, uniform and doctoral schools, category B+, very high academic powers by 2027. Only, ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not describe who you will take from. Medical science in Olsztyn - the right idea of decentralisation, only there are already medical studies. Lublin - a coincidence that in Lublin actually legal science? I don't think so. And so on, and so on. It has not been consulted with any universities likely to be affected unless it is built again, but it is not in the bill. Copernican Prize - 500,000. Ladies and gentlemen, in Polish science it is really very highly appreciated, but 500 thousand. is a huge, gigantic prize, and looking at today's state of the budget of the Republic, it would seem that a great question mark should be placed as to whether it is moral. The Copernican World Congress - probably the best described part of this law, including information on who is laying down ambulances, and attention, attention, except for civil liberties at the time of the Copernican World Congress. I have seen, ladies and gentlemen, various congresses, scientific events of an international nature, and nowhere is there any need to create laws that prohibit gatherings during a scientific event. [[Spontaneous.]] Unless you have some other idea of what science is. I would like to draw your attention to this cherry on the cake. The Polish Space Agency is called the Polish Space Agency. Nicolaus Copernicus and goes to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, which means Mr Czarnek gets as a gift from President Duda of the Polish Space Agency. We're asking why? Whether it's any way to improve the operation of this agency or to be a bonus to Minister Czarnek for vetoing the law called lex czarnek. To be honest, I am outraged by the legislative level of this document, but not just me. The joint declaration was issued by the following institutions: the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Polish Academy of Sciences, the General Council of Science and Higher Education, the Polish National Section for Science and Solidarity. From all sides, they say it's not a good idea. If you want to finance the Polish Academy of Sciences, let us finance those fields where Polish science can develop. If there is a need to do the World Copernican Congress, there is no need for this legal bubble. If you want to give grants, find a transparent way. On the other hand, the part about building a school is simply outrageous and legally, and in terms of the regular creation and consultation of law. Those universities you're talking about, or they don't know anything about it, or some of them are afraid you're gonna take away their departments. What about the (Bingle) students? What about HR? The Civic Coalition Club calls for this project to be rejected at first reading and calls for the President to be reminded. Let's help Polish science, not hurt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kulasek, the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Copernican National Programme, Copernican Academy, Copernican Prize, Copenhagen Main School. It may be felt that Minister Czarnek's resort came up with a brilliant idea, in his own opinion, to add to each solution an adjective derived from the name of a great astronomer and then it will become more easy to digest for the opposition. It started last year when the Copenhagen offensive was to threaten the Nobel Prize-winning Polish Academy of Sciences. Neither did the opposition react quickly. Today we are dealing with a second installment of the Copenhagen expansion. This time the initiator of the bill is the Law Firm of the President of the Republic of Poland, perhaps at tears for the absolutely right veto against the Law of lex Czarnek. I have no doubt, however, who is the inventor and spiritual father of the Copenhagen bill. He is Minister Czarnek, who decided to attach a great astronomer to his plans like a flower to a goat. I have no doubt what Minister Czarnek's true intentions are, i.e. as always the ideology of science, speeding up the careers of dedicated conservatives, securing their warm son, and finally jumping on assets enjoying the autonomy of universities. The composition of the Copernican Academy is to be decided by the Minister himself. It will be Minister Czarnek who will appoint members of the new scientific corporation for the first seven-year term. Instead of allowing the scientific community to choose from among themselves the most worthy of this honor, the minister bets on manual control. As the Main Council of Science and Higher Education notes, the bill is inconsistent with the Polish system of science and higher education, and individual chambers of the Academy will duplicate the research areas of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Academy of Skills. I'm an envoy from Olsztyn. Nicolaus Copernicus spent the key years of his life in the capital of Warmia, which is why I appreciate that one of the colleges of the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School is to be in Olsztyn. On the other hand, there is nothing in the draft law about consulting the Olsztyn scientific community. I don't know if you're planning a hostile takeover of Olsztyn medicine, or do you want to act for the good and glory of Warmia and Mazury? The negative emotions in the scientific community are the advantages of the primary school and the granting of its B+ rating after the Minister's view. Even more emotional is the matter of Copernican Academy property. We are not fully aware of the sources of funding for the Copenhagen programme academy. Where are you gonna get the money for that? Who are you gonna take them from? The Polish Academy of Sciences? The Polish Academy of Skills? Or any of the universities? Instead of combining the scientific community, the Copernican Prize will divide them even more, and this is because politicians will be responsible for the nomination for the award first. This seems to be a particularly easy solution. Let the politicians take care of the rule of the state and leave science to the scientists. This sentence could serve as a summary of the whole project: politicians, hands away from Polish science. The task of politicians should be to create a financial and organisational framework enabling the development of scientific research, not to develop a staff carousel, not to create accelerated promotion paths for scientists with views of nice power, not to anoint their favorites as the most outstanding scientists in the country. Therefore, a proposal from the General Council of Science and Higher Education to withdraw the bill should be relied upon. Otherwise, the Left will vote against the project as unnecessary and harmful to Polish science. Every child knows that Copernicus stopped the sun and moved the Earth. The ruling Polish Law and Justice wants to use Copernicus' name to move carousels with careers of conservative scientists. There will be no (the bell) of our consent. Increase funding of Polish science, and leave Copernicus alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u349	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. I kindly ask you to present your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative level, the structure of the bill, the very concept of the scientific strategy is so bad, that I think that it is to attach the name of Nicolaus Copernicus to this project. [[Applause]] De facto, there is no justification for the substance. According to the authors of the explanatory memorandum, the solutions proposed in this draft constitute so-called solutions. the closure of the reform process which gave birth to the National Science Centre, the National Centre for Research and Development, the National Academic Exchange Agency and the Łukasiewicz network. Lockdown? This is surprising to me because no one has informed us that the previous initiatives are some sort of unfinished whole and that the Copernican Academy will be set up in the future, which will tighten all these previous initiatives. Then we can read in the explanatory memorandum that it seems that the existing system of higher education and science is already, taking into account the number of institutions that are part of it, expanded, but there are still no clear solutions that would stimulate a new opening for research activities. It is very interesting that Polish science was just looking for a stimulus such as the introduction of a new academy. Nicolaus Copernicus School is to be composed of five colleges of chambers located in Toruń, Olsztyn, Warsaw, Krakow and Lublin. For me, all these locations have a specific explanation, except for Lublin, but I understand that Minister Czarnek will accept such an amendment with no problem, that Lublin will switch to Łódź, because in the end the Minister lives in Lublin and comes from Łódź, so I don't think there will be any difference for him. When I look at the financials of this venture, I have to say that the authors have momentum. Interestingly, scholarships for young scientists - 6 thousand each. - will be lower than the estimated monthly salary of office staff - at 8 000. [[Why?]] According to scientists, whose opinion on this subject I have read, the construction of the school is experimental, and the fact that membership in the academy will not be associated with having a habilitation or profession deserves attention. [[Maybe some kind of party ID?]] I've been observing PiS activities in the field of science for a long time, and I know that if the PiS hadn't done anything, we would have raised the level of science more than how it did something. An example is the voivodship from which I come, and Łódź. The Caracala construction programme was deleted in 2015. This isn't just about the type of multitasking helicopters. There students were already in practice in France, there was supposed to be a special department at the Łódź University of Technology, there was supposed to be an aviation direction, Łódź was supposed to benefit to a large extent from a 13.5-billion-dollar offset. Today in Łódź they are furious at the PiS because it stopped the development. According to public declarations the Copernican Academy will not replace the Polish Academy of Sciences, but it reminds me of history and a great congress in 1951, and then the liquidation of the Polish Academy of Skills and the creation of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which of course after 1989 changed, but we all remember how it was then with this replacement. Most of the scientific community doesn't approve of this initiative, neither do I. I believe that in many cases money can be used to develop true science. I'm going to give you this example of life for the last minute. A strong trend in the world's fruit industry, which must be followed, is the production of club varieties of apples. The introduction of club varieties has contributed to an increase in the income of American and Western European sadists. This allowed them to survive a difficult time and to be optimistic about new activities. But that's what science and the economy need to work together for. What actions of the Polish Institute of Sadition - the state research institute introduced to help this industry, this part of the economy, the Polish Sadists? Did the Ministry of Agriculture order or transfer money for such a change? Such examples could be multiplied. Polish science (The Bell) is underinvested, and I find spending money on new creations pointless. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u352	God's happiness in Polish science, which may still rise, can become a lever, as the people's power stops taking care of it. [[Applause]] The fact that scientists, the fact that the post-Peerel world of science is protesting, is not an argument. You know, they don't want any competition in their own business. Of course, we could also go to the head, for whom it is actually a soft landing, whether it is for Zybertowicz. This is a Toruń professor, and I've even heard them talk about him as Copernicus, so it'll work. You know, another freak-puff has been designed for unorthodox amounts, which, of course, the first speaker is right - certainly will not satisfy the appetites. The appetite will grow as we eat. Everything in this project is bizarre and funny on every level, e.g. The fact that you've designed in advance what departments of this university will be in various centres. If anything, why won't there be a college of this Copernican Academy with the status of the Academy of War Arts faculty? After all, Copernicus fortified Olsztyn, and he did great. [[Applause]] If anything, go to the academy where the state's finances are mentioned. Kopernik-Gresham's law. Why isn't there any sign of this on the project? Because it's not that it's smart, it's not that it's interesting, it's that, well, those who are going to get scholarships get them, and those who are going to get grants can consume them. Oh, there's an ex-premier here, Minister Gowin, who's been patronizing for a couple of years these integrated sneakers. Nawa NCBiR, Institute of Łukasiewicz, is furious. It's like an animated movie when drones consume Huckleberry's doghouse. It's buzzing - you can't see who's eating, but consumption's going on. So, of course, the Confederation will not support the creation of another trough, with all due respect to science. Before the war, my mother's uncle, Uncle Wasiutyński, was even awarded the Prize of Literary News for Copernicus' biography, but these things are created without central financing, not in the preparation of a soft landing by some ministers from the presidential office. Well, if not Zybertowicz, then Szczerski will feed there (the bell) when he returns to his homeland and somewhere he will have to lecture and set an example.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u353	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u354	It's funny, and it's scary. Get out of here. Long live the memory of the great Copernicus...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u355	Long live it. Thank you very much. Mr Maximovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u356	...but not in such a monstrous incarnation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u357	Mr President, don't really waste your time. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome. [[Excuse me? I didn't catch that.]] But, sir, I'm not talking to you. [[You're talking to me, but you're not listening to me. I can recommend...]] I could recommend you consult, too. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u358	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! What urgent needs do the Minister of Education and Science see in his office? What did they address to the commander of the Armed Forces, the President of the Republic of Poland, in the event of the need to increase expenditure on defence and help society to overcome the effects of inflation? It is necessary to create another academy of science. The Minister will select candidates for academy members and candidate for the rector of this university. One former member of the minister's office, metaphysicist Skrzedlewski, was appointed as the new rector of the new Zamoj Academy without election. And the other counselors and their friends, their friends, what? They need to be paid the State's salary as a member of the academy until they're 80 years old. After all, getting to the Polish Academy of Sciences or the Polish Academy of Skills is not easy. We urgently need to create a new institution. A year ago, this idea was met with enormous criticism of the scientific community. The project was hidden in the drawer, but there was an opportunity and this legislative bubble was slipped to the president, ensuring that everything was okay and it wasn't. Not only because it's another unnecessary spending of our budget money now, it's not just because you can see a clientele at a distance of advisors poking around Minister Black. Here, in concrete solutions, there is absolutely no basic discernment, and I firmly believe that the President was deliberately misled about the fact that, for example. within the new university, the main school, will be established in Olsztyn a college of doctors. 14 years ago, I formed a medical science faculty at the University of Olsztyn, and I guarantee you, that includes 170 thousand. The city has absolutely no place to set up a second medical training centre. [[That's what they're gonna take away from you.]] Even a functioning department finds it difficult to find a place to practice in hospitals. The only way to achieve the goals is to deprive the University of Olsztyn of tasks and assets worth about PLN 0.25 billion. It is a way of strong conflict and causing unnecessary sense of harm to the Olsztyn university, whose assets would be significantly reduced, and even worse, its prestige would be weakened. The fatal lack of real simulation of the cost of creating the academy and its main school is a complete disgrace to the creators of this project, who led him to the President, insulted his majesty. Mr. President! As former dean of the medical department and principal of the Collegium Medicum in Olsztyn, I ask you to entrust me with my words. In the shape submitted to you by the President, this bill is in no way suitable for proceding. I can't imagine sacrificing Olsztyn academic medicine. Or Toruń astronomy in the name of the interests of one political group. Science needs peace and independence. The desire to embezzle its attributes to the needs of power always ends badly, giving the opposite effect to the intended: lack of results, low level and drain of talent. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Circle Poland 2050 I also submit a request for rejection (The Bell) of the project presented at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u359	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gowin, near the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The main problem of Polish science and higher education is very thin measures to support this key pillar from the point of view of modern state, such as science and higher education. Now these low expenditures, which have managed to increase slightly as part of the work on Law 2.0, are to be even more dispersed. If the Copernicus Academy project provided for an increase in expenditure on science and higher education - here I strongly urge the Minister - one might wonder if he would not contribute to the development of Polish research, at least point-blank, in these several selected fields of science. In fact, the Copernican Academy leads to a dispersion of resources. But this is the least of the weaknesses of this project. When you read this project, you have the impression that the academy is supposed to duplicate the functioning of many existing and, generally speaking, already well-rooted, embedded institutions of Polish science, from classical universities by the Polish Academy of Sciences, i.e. an institution that has existed for decades and enjoys great authority in the scientific community, to such newly created institutions as the National Science Centre, the National Academic Exchange Agency and the Research Network Łukasiewicz. What is worse, and this is probably the biggest problem of this law, Mr. Maksymowicz just pointed out, this project grossly violates the principle of university autonomy, the constitutional principle. The President of the Republic of Poland should uphold this principle and I believe that the President will make the right judgment of this project. The extraction from existing universities, as probably will take place in the case of the University of Warmia and Mazury, individual departments or organisational units without consultation, without the agreement of the academic community, is simply a kind of scientific barbarism. Finally, the last thing, maybe the saddest thing. For 30 years the free Republic managed to protect the academy world from political interference. In the case of this project, I have no doubt that the idea is to create for some of the academic community their own institution (The Bell), which will be on the margins of the world of Polish science. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u361	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law calls for the existence of the Copernican Academy, which is intended to increase the development, competitiveness and recognition of Polish science on the international stage. In our country there are very many representatives of academic staff who are characterised by extensive knowledge and commitment. I have a question: How will young researchers from abroad be invited to the Copernican Academy, and in what areas will this cooperation take place? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u363	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! A year ago in April 2021, a mysterious group of trusted collaborators of the Minister of Education and Science worked on the establishment of a new academy - Copernican Academy. Already then the community of academics and scientists alarmed that it would be an extremely politicized institution, based on ideas from the times of the Polish People's Republic, replicating the activities of the Polish Academy of Sciences, financed at the expense of existing universities. A year ago, Minister Bernacki assured us, and not just us, but the whole academic and scientific community, that it was rumors. Today we know what his words are worth. It's just a shame that Mr. President got caught in the trap of Minister Czarnek. Our concerns from a year ago confirm today's illusion project similar to that supposedly nonexistent one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Under the coat of noble name, Mr. President and Minister Czarnek...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u365	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u366	...they want to set up a university that will serve power, not science, and, by the way, will create jobs for theirs and reward for theirs. Why don't you have the guts to say it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on the Copernicus Academy concerns the creation of an innovative scientific institution to increase the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science in the world. I would very much ask, even in a few sentences, that you describe what the innovativeness of this institution is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u369	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to ask those who are talking about science. How much money it cost to create a work by Nicholas Copernicus ¿De revolutionibus orbium coelstium ¿? But somebody's gonna say it was a long time ago and it wasn't. So how much did the German state cost Albert Einstein to write his theory of relativity? And in conclusion, I'll read Norwid's freak: "From the huge room the trash was removed and the dust was wiped out of the chairs - the men came in and sat down with a murmur, as from the vagina the weapons, and announced... well? And they're sitting... sitting... until somewhere in the world, a madman comes up with a pair, and an artist/subliminal - a solar beam they've fixed, and an uneducated dentist from all the pains of a man will save... and the academy will be silent... but complete. We'll have three dorms, omne trinum perfectum, I understand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll be able to argue with each other. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u371	Thank you very much, sir. You've got the wrong pitch. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u372	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Hundreds of congresses are held in Poland every year, including certainly dozens of excellent people from all over the world. No congress involves adopting paranoid safety regulations by law. I wonder, Minister, who's gonna be there, and I'm looking for your Deputy Prime Minister from security, because these surveillance regulations are unheard of. I wanted to ask: Will international scientific fame be informed that on the basis of the article. 72-76 the entire state apparatus will monitor them during their stay in Poland, and every step of these celebrities and their associates will be processed by each service? And why would the President want to restrict the civil rights of assembly at a scientific congress? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unheard of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u373	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! When you read this project, it comes to mind only one question: cui bono?, which is: who does it serve? And at this point, the answer is very clear: Minister Czarnek. I have the impression that this is a cuckoo egg that was planted on the president because the academy isn't Copenhagen, it's Minister Czarnek. It is Minister Czarnek who will appoint the first candidates to be members of the Copernicus Academy - the President must of course agree, but he will appoint them. I will tell you more: these members will appoint more members. Therefore, generally speaking, it will be a closed circle only of relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit. This means that we will be dealing with a closed environment that will simply appoint one another. And I have a very specific question. Why suddenly it turns out that we have a law about one that stole the Polish Space Agency, because it is suddenly to be ruled by Minister Czarnek (The Bell), but first of all from which individual colleges will be created, which are within the framework of the Copenhagen school, who will be taken away or what money will be created for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u375	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm proud to be a Pole. I am proud that as a Member, I was able to look forward to the moment when I could vote on the establishment of the Copernican Academy in Poland. After all, it is an initiative that is very needed in Poland - an initiative that scientists have been seeking for many months at the General Council of Science and Higher Education, who, by mistake, wrote that this idea is inconsistent with the system of higher education and science, but scientists in scientific research may be wrong. I am proud that this is the second day of an excellent idea for Polish science. Yesterday, in this High House, we established an unnecessary medal: well deserved for Polish science. Soon we will establish an unnecessary Copernican Academy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The irony of history. Only once in history did politicians form scientific institutions. It was the turn of the '40s and '50s. As part of the Sovietization of Polish science, the Warsaw Scientific Society, the Polish Academy of Skills, were starved, starved, not starved, Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences, and in this place the Institute of Literary Research was established because, as Żółkiewski said, literature helped build socialism in Poland. Kisiel then called Żółkiewski an unparalleled demagogue. Then the Polish Academy of Sciences was established, today an institution deserved, similarly the Institute of Literary Research, but then they were established to counteract independent corporations of scientists, to simply crush them, destroy them, destroy the independence of Polish science. It's the same thing today. The state is suddenly creating some big, extensive Copernican Academy. And yet (the bell) science has always been organized from the bottom up. Scientists organize in society, in the academy, universities, just as they were created at their beginnings in the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u379	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u380	Stay away from science, just fund it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u381	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed project assumes the creation of a parallel institution to the Polish Academy of Sciences, which is incomprehensible and incompatible with world trends. The objectives of this institution are unclear and it is difficult not to notice that they duplicate existing structures. There is no denying that the calling of the so-called. The Copernican Academy is only used to build a paranoid institution using state resources for this purpose. In addition to many specific questions, which make up the conclusion that the project should be rejected in its entirety, general questions arise. What will be the cost of setting up this new institution? What is the convergence of the project with the state's scientific policy? What criteria will academy members meet, given that this is an autonomous policy decision? There is a danger that people will be members without proper substantive preparation as regards the objectives of functioning of the academy in the science system in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u383	Thank you. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the Copernican Academy, which the government so eagerly supported, is another legal puriazum. This is a project that is inconsistent with the foggy funding described, which is incompatible with the Law on Higher Education and Science. It is a project that will weaken the Polish Academy of Sciences, creating a parallel institution appointed by politicians. It is a project that has caused resistance to academic and scientific circles... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Competition is good.]] ...which is an obvious attempt to disrupt these environments, and that is when they need help and support. It is a project that creates a new higher education school, which will itself receive a B+ science category, which is a denial of the discussed and established structure of higher education institutions, where the category received depends on the academic achievements of the higher education institution. After all, it is a project that was not to be put under the Sejm's agenda, and today after cosmetic changes (the bell) is considered as a presidential initiative. Does the price for a veto for lex Czarnek have to be this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u386	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish science is in terrible condition. Polish universities according to the so-called. Shanghai lists are only found in the fifth hundred best universities in the world. Polish science remains deeply underfunded, often uncompetitive. Young, talented scientists prefer to work for foreign corporations rather than stay and work at Polish universities for starving salaries. Lack of competitiveness and innovation also leads to dramatic choices for scientists to start working at Western universities, which also increases disparities between Polish universities and those in the West. Pandemic, inflation and rising prices have increased financial pressure on Polish universities. Only increases in electricity prices mean an additional expenditure of 453 million for public universities and an increase in heating prices of 335 million per year. Meanwhile, we are creating the Copernican Academy. Who's it supposed to be for? Why are you making this? Why do you destroy Polish science in this way? Polish universities need money (the bell), we need more wages and, above all, trust in scientists. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Giving money to universities is absurd.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u388	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You've done something extraordinary. You have united the scientific community that opposes your project. Congratulations. Polish scientists and scientists from all disciplines, disciplines and institutions protest against the creation of the Copernican Academy. What is the purpose of this institution? And this is also at a time when Polish science is faced with problems that are multiplied by Minister Czarnek, COVID and inflation. Why do you not want to support the development of scientific institutions such as the Polish Academy of Sciences or prestigious universities? As usual - as with the Museum of World War II, the Centre for Contemporary Art or the Constitutional Tribunal - you prefer to destroy independent institutions to build fakes in their place, which are to be based on political nominations. The pillar of science and a strong state is competence, not nepotism and political propaganda. Stop building the country out of a cardboard box. Just as Copernicus' teachings won with superstitions, so will Polish science survive you (the bell) and other flatteners. Thank you kindly. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I am not sure that she has survived.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u389	A scientist, you say? Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Copernican Academy - a beautiful name and only name. In fact, this institution aims to train the Polish Academy of Sciences from finance, competence and scientific achievements, as well as raiding departments and directions from other universities - from Lublin the Faculty of Legal Sciences - and submission to politicians who will rule and share and allocate prizes on an unprecedented scale. Copernican Prize - 500,000. zł. On all sides of science there are oppositions and outrage due to the embezzlement and politicization of Polish science. I am a Member of Lublin, and on behalf of myself and the environment I say: stop, we do not agree to the liquidation, to the ownership of the directions of law and administration. Hands off the UMCS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u391	Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There isn't? Oh, no, it is. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u392	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Copernican Academy is a scientific project that initiates innovative activities that generate a strong boost for the development of existing institutions. The mission of the program is to increase the level of research conducted by Polish scientists. To what extent will the establishment of the academy improve objective meters, such as the position in international rankings, national rankings and scientific activity? Will the academy co-create a system of institutions supporting Polish science? If so, what institutions will they be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Copernican Academy aims to increase the competitiveness and recognition of Polish science in the world. The Copernican National Programme, which is the main task of the Academy, will strengthen and strengthen national scientific life and expand research fields with foreign centres. I have a question: To what extent will the proposed solutions increase the level of research conducted in Poland, and how will they contribute to the growth of Polish science in Europe and the world? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[None.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u395	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u396	Ladies and gentlemen! Both the design of this project and the name itself is an insult to Nicholas Copernicus, but I think it's an insult. Also for President Andrzej Duda. It is really incomprehensible why the President wants to legitimize this project, which will politicize Polish science. After all, the President has recently been trying to de-enchant his image, vetoing several important projects, among others. lex Czarnek. Is it worth engaging in such a project, which is widely criticised by Polish scientists? As regards the questions to the authors of the project, please tell us what the purpose and intended effect of the Copernican World Congress is. Please tell us who you're going to invite, at least one name, so we can at least know what the announcement is. Maybe we're wrong. Get us out of the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u397	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Tomasz Romekowski to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u398	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Allow me to present the position of the Government of the Republic of Poland regarding the draft law on Copernican Academy. The aim of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland is the creation of the Copernican Academy, whose main task will be the implementation of the National Copernican Programme. This program will allow, among others. to build or intensify the links of representatives of national scientific life and to involve foreign researchers in cooperation with Polish centres and scientific teams. The planned structure of the Copernican Academy includes a large representation of scholars from abroad in the individual chambers of the Academy. And here I will refer in part to this issue, which was raised: 50% the personal status of the academy is to be represented by scientists representing foreign scientific centres. We do not have such a centre in Poland. Such a structure will therefore allow for the inclusion of a significant number of them in the circulation of Polish science. Annual meetings of Chambers with foreign participation will be a form of realization of the presence of these people in Polish science. The created Nicolaus Copernicus School, apart from other tasks, is to be a place dedicated to the involvement of foreign scientists in the training of Polish students and PhD students. The promotion of Polish science in the world will serve both the program of calling ambassadors and the program of grants. Both of these tools will motivate and give Polish and foreign scholars an instrument for carrying out scientific projects and projects of importance for Poland. The government of the Republic of Poland welcomes the presidential legislative initiative creating the Copernican Academy and shares the position of the President of the Republic that the initiative taken will be a form of honoring the most outstanding Polish scholar Nicolaus Copernicus during - it is a pity that it did not sound like during the discussion - which is next year's 550th birthday anniversary. The proposed institution also fits into the most important needs of Polish science, in particular to increase its international prestige and level. The Copernican Academy, through its organisational form and its specific scope of action, offers opportunities for positive changes in this area. The proposed forms of activities of the Copernican Academy, as well as the way in which it is created, deserve approval. Particular attention should be paid to the flexibility of the solutions designed to make the launch of the Copernicus Academy and its programmes independent of subsequent legislative actions. Thanks to this, the Copernican Academy will gain real autonomy as part of legal solutions. This gives an opportunity to achieve its objectives effectively in the future. It is also important that the design structure of the Copernican Academy is not too extensive, which allows us to assume that it will not be a burden due to the excessive administrative layer. This should affect the effectiveness and efficiency of its work and will not generate unjustified costs. As a result, the newly created institution should actually focus on the basic objectives set out in the draft law, and the intended ways of international cooperation and the constant presence of researchers from other countries should contribute to strengthening the position of Polish science in the international environment. Given the above, the Council of Ministers welcomes the presidential draft law on the Copernican Academy. On behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science, we thank the President very much for his initiative and we will support him in further work. Thank you very much, Minister and Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u399	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I will ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Małgorzata Paprocka, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for the vote. When the President presented the bill, which took place in the palace in the presence of Minister Czarnek, it was clear that this project was created in cooperation with the President, of course, with the Minister and experts. This cooperation is very efficient, for which I thank you kindly. I hope we can continue this work. High Izbo! A number of allegations against the President's proposal find no justification in the proposed legislation. Charges of taking over property, taking over the university... We're talking about creating a whole new unit. Sources of funding are indicated... [[Of what?]] The budget of the State is indicated, Madam President. [[The state budget isn't... the prime minister's gonna hand over the estate?]] Thus, the sources of funding are indicated, the forms of funding are indicated. It would be very difficult to put a sign of equality between this and the expropriation of any university. I will now address the issue of the rules on the organisation of the first congress. The procedure was absolutely conscious and dictated in three respects. Firstly, we have a number of legal acts that have already contained such regulations. These are the laws on the organisation of the United Nations Framework Convention Conferences, the organisation of the World Urban Forum in Katowice, and these are among others. regulations on the basis of which World Youth Days were organised in Krakow in 2016. Dear Members, There's no need for the High House to speak at this point. about the conditions under which we are and why there are special security procedures. And it doesn't matter that the academy is going to be created, so it's better to plan a way of organizing... [[Then you have to turn off your civil liberties. Brilliant.]] ...to keep this organization running smoothly and smoothly. And just as you pointed out perfectly... [[No assembly, brilliant.]] ...also I think it is obvious to your Members to invite recognised authorities. Such invitations must be issued in good time. To the question of who will be invited, I will answer that this is also regulated in the project and, of course, the members of the academy will be responsible for these invitations. The last point that I wanted to address is the allegations that there were no reasons for the academy members to meet in the project. This thread has been repeated several times as an accusation against the project. It seems that these conditions are very high for them: from good opinion, outstanding scientific achievements... [[Minister Czarnek's designation.]] ...an authority in the environment, a degree in professorship or a degree in science. Of course, there are also special regulations for foreigners, and therefore it seems that these regulations are very high requirements. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u401	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A proposal or even two to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, print No 2166. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. I propose that in the debate on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection!]] In view of time? [[In time.]] Could it be four minutes? [[Bravo!]] Very good, sir. So five-minute clubs, four-minute wheels. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws (Prints No 2147 and 2166). I kindly ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the Government bill amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, print No 2147. The Parliament held its 52nd meeting on 6 April. pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. At the same time, the Sejm pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs after considering this project today, i.e. On April 7th, he asks the Sejm to approve the attached bill. A few information about today's work, about what the situation is now in the drafting of an already revised law, which was not so long ago accepted. First of all, we are all aware that we are acting under the influence of a situation that is taking place beyond our eastern border, so that in the present reality, certain things are just being created at a given moment. It is not that you can plan calmly, you have to react to certain situations that happen. The committee's work was a few hours, over four hours. Many proposals have been submitted to the government project, which has been presented for the procession. But it must be pointed out - and as rapporteur, I will admit this - that the work was very substantive, there were very concrete proposals, many proposals for facilitation. Some of these are even far-reaching conclusions, and I will remind you that our intention is that we absolutely help, but we do not replace, we also need some rations to weigh and they are weighed. One thing must also be pointed out: a very important element of cooperation, which is being created today, between the substantive ministry, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and the local authorities. This is very important. Here this cooperation is absolutely fundamental. The point is that we can work together and help our fellow countrymen to help the Ukrainians to do their business so that they can get along as well as possible in our country. The second or third very important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the rapid procession. Therefore, there are some errors, but we acknowledge that they are eliminated in consensus. We are trying to make sure that there are as few of them as possible, and today we know that in a moment, when the second reading is over, there will also be a committee meeting and we will continue to work on this. I hope that we will end this bill in a good way, as I say, and we will be able to vote on it today. Finally, I will add that the committee, in accordance with the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it presents at the request of the applicants three minority proposals by Mrs Hennig-Kloski, which are contained in the minutes. Thank you, Marshal, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u403	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and four minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u404	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine took place on 24 February this year, resulting in more than 2.5 million Ukrainian citizens seeking safe shelter. They found this refuge in our country. In order for the government, local governments, NGOs and simply Poles to be able to provide assistance to war refugees, it is necessary to amend the rules of law so that this assistance can be provided in a manner that does not affect the existing regulations or the existing legal order. It was therefore necessary to make rapid legislative changes, which take into account this multifaceted, multi-sectoral support for war refugees. It was known that refugees would need social, financial, health and labour market support, while special care would be required for children. These processes have been and are all the more difficult because we share linguistic and cultural differences. The law, which was adopted on 12 March, provided legal grounds for providing support, but during its application both local governments and government institutions, as well as certain ministries, NGOs reported the need to clarify certain provisions or to introduce completely new rules in areas that were not included in the project. Therefore, the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs, listening to the voices of local governments, the voices of Poles, prepared another amendment of this law, which responds to the needs signaled here and now. All this has been included in the draft of this amendment. However, the situation is dynamic and, of course, we are all aware that further amendments will probably be needed, as new problems will arise that need to be resolved under the law. The provisions of this amendment also cover a number of technical changes which relate to the way in which war refugees from Ukraine are financed, but there are also provisions that allow the potential of Ukrainian citizens to be exploited. We know that there are also professionals among refugees, very well prepared e.g. to provide health services. We also know that people who have fled war drama often need psychological support. This is why the law introduces a change aimed at enabling Ukrainian citizens who do not have Polish language qualifications and have health qualifications, as well as psychologists - I mean doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, medical rescuers and psychologists - to provide health services to their countrymen and support their brothers. Provisions concerning foster care, temporary care providers have also been clarified. There are very many children among refugees, they represent more than 50%, and therefore children's safety problems are extremely important and need to be clarified. The amendment also includes provisions resulting from the Labour Code. The rules governing the situation of Ukrainian citizens on the labour market have been clarified in order to protect them on our labour market so that they are not exploited. This amendment regulates humanitarian aid, as well as support for medical products and medicines as part of humanitarian support. The amendment also includes provisions on financial matters which are relevant for the provision of financial support both by local governments and by individual state institutions. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to thank the government, the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs very warmly for preparing this amendment. It will certainly facilitate (the bell) the wider provision of assistance to refugees from Ukraine. However, as I said, the situation is dynamic, and even after the second reading it turned out that further changes were needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u405	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u406	Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to place four amendments on your hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are working at a rather rapid pace on the next amendment of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country. Nobody makes a fuss, because we all knew that this law would be updated at practically every meeting of the Sejm, in a continuous manner, because the situation is very dynamic, the problems are very much and the scope of this assistance is extremely wide. I want to say, and I talked about this in my speech at the first reading, that there are a number of good solutions in this law, which is worth highlighting, for example. such as a solution to help doctors, nurses, health professionals enter the Polish labour market. As we know, we have huge deficits in health care, in health care. And any such movement, which will allow the Ukrainians, but also the Belarusians and other nations to start working in our hospitals and clinics, is very useful and recommended. Of course, there are a number of provisions that improve the functioning of the administration, mostly government administration, but some of the provisions also apply to local government. The Civic Coalition Club - we declared that we would want to work on this law in substance and that is what we do. The Minister here yesterday also declared his openness to our amendments. But, Minister, as Fredro used to say, it is not wise to speak wisely, but the greatest to do wisely. However, today at the committee meeting, as the amendments appeared, not only the Civic Coalition, but also other opposition representatives, we have always heard: the government's position - negative. It is a pity, Minister, because experience shows that you are not always right, and probably with the next amendments, our amendments will come back here. And meanwhile, we're wasting time that we don't have, and we could really do things in a more efficient way. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll make a few more adjustments, exactly five. However, we hope that during the committee's deliberations you will lean on these amendments and, however, accept them, you will support them. For example, this amendment, which also allows local governments to direct people requiring 24-hour care to social services homes, is logical so that not only the voivodships can do this, but also the local authorities, because it is not the voivodships that get these people or not that the voivods have a problem directly, only the local authorities, so I do not know why you insist here. We will also make an amendment to help non-governmental organisations or to give the opportunity to support non-governmental organisations from the funds allocated to help the Ukrainians, especially the Solidarity Fund. We will also consistently, of course, make amendments on the protection of public finances. We do not agree to exclude further expenditure from the control of the Committee on Public Finance. This is not justified in this case, because the Public Finance Commission acts virtually non-stop and the argument that the control of the Public Finance Commission would delay any action is really unreasonable. Therefore, Minister, I ask you again, not only verbally, but also actually to cooperate with the opposition which works in a substantive way - we do not throw (Ring) 25, 30, 40 amendments, and a few substantive amendments that we want, so that the government also supports. I'm putting these corrections in your hands, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Members' Club of the Left, I have the honour to present our position on the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws contained in print Nos 2147 and 2166. As I said in my first reading, this is the fourth amendment of the law, which is quite broad, because originally, when we spoke, it was thirty-two pages, today it is 57, and the report that we have is 60 pages. It is a law that really regulates the issues of staying in the territory of the Polish Ukrainians. Ukrainians who entered our territory in the number of more than 2.5 million. We realize that several hundred thousand have left, but the rest of us today need help and support from our side, aid which is being organised by humanitarian organisations, local governments, but also by the government, which has received an instrument in the form of this law. As far as the bill we are discussing today is concerned, this amendment is primarily due to what has been going on over the past few weeks, i.e. from experience, and in some way responds to expectations. We realize that not all things will yet be realized. We said today at the committee meeting that a few things need to be regulated, those who require it. It goes on, among other things. about what I pointed out at today's meeting, about the issue of access to the accounts of the Ukrainian people, those who have arrived and whose husbands have gone to war in Ukraine, and their wives have no access to the bank account. And here I expect, Minister, that somehow you will come to an agreement with financial supervision to settle this issue, because many of these people are not able to make use of the funds that they and their spouses or family have worked out properly or legally. With regard to today's committee meeting, we thank you very much for this amendment, which is quite important, because today we see everywhere that we are unable to implement the issues related to obtaining the PESEL number within 60 days, which is why these queues are extending. And here came the Minister's consent at the request of our colleague to extend this period to 90 days. I am aware that this can somehow calm the situation and at the same time simply enable all those who wish to appear at the city office or at the municipal office to get such a PESEL. We as a club want to make six amendments. The first amendment we would like to make is the one that the Minister has accepted, so-called. Corky. However, it turns out that the amendment that was accepted and accepted should not be in this place, we need to move it to another article. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. The amendment that we would also like to make again concerns psychological assistance that you should provide, providing it to people who have suffered trauma, to women who have been raped, to children. I think the Minister will think about it and agree to it. We shall also return to the amendment concerning the consent of the prosecutor no later than 7 days from the date of the notification of the offence. The aim is to ensure that rape issues are also implemented and that consent is given to women who have been traumatized by abortion. We are also talking about the amendments concerning, above all, the foster care that we discussed at the meeting with Minister Maląg, which were not implemented at the time. They are not controversial, but I hope that the Minister and Minister of Sweden will bow down and decide to accept them. There are also issues related to the registration and arrival of refugees themselves. We are aware that this law will need to be amended, we realise that it is not perfect and is being done in a great hurry today, which was noticeable during parliamentary work, and the number of amendments tabled by the government party also indicates this. Although the government had a report prepared, it also tabled a number of amendments today. Each day brings further solutions and as I said, as a club we are ready to work on this law to solve the problems of people who had to come to Poland as a result of the war, and we hope that many of them will decide to settle in Poland. Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Left Messenger Club, I would like to declare the vote on this bill, as I have already said, to make these six amendments on behalf of the club. Most of them have already been discussed at the committee meeting, but I hope that the Minister will bend over them again and perhaps a significant part will be commended at this committee meeting when we consider these (the bell) amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u412	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Polish Dinner Club, the club which I represent, to begin this speech not from a substantive point to which I am about to go, but from expressing deep regret, compassion and co-solidarity with the victims of these beastly activities - I think that's what it should be called - Russian soldiers in Ukraine, all those civilian victims who suffered, if not death, the highest price, are victims of violence, humiliation, which should not happen in the 21st century. Indeed, the 21st century began with the biggest migratory crisis. There is no doubt that what we are witnessing today as a result of the illegal, unjustified, unfair war that the Russian Federation has declared in Ukraine has resulted in the greatest process in Europe since 1945 in terms of migration or escape from the threats of a war-war country, which has already had more than 2.5 million people in our country. Let me remind you that what we were dealing with in 2015, which is also a very serious crisis, was about 1.5 million people. We must pay tribute and honor to Polish citizens and commend them for the extraordinary kindness, warmth and sacrifice they offer unselfishly in order to welcome refugees, guarantee them some basic conditions of living and basic mental comfort, which is some small though, but compensation for what they have encountered. Especially mothers and children in their own country as a result of Russian aggression. However, we expect from the government - we do not propose this in the form of amendments, but as if we are asking for a serious conversation - but to take into account also some of the previously neglected entities, people, citizens, businesses - I think here mainly of the owners or operators of hotels, guesthouses, holiday centres - those who offered unselfishly, without cost calculations, just because this was the need, a place with food for broken refugee families. As we know, they are usually women with children without husbands, without fathers. The point is that in many places in Poland helping no compensation for their actions they did not receive. They didn't do it for compensation, but it has to be taken into account that it means extra costs, which especially after a pandemic period are not easy to bear. Therefore, it would be worthwhile for the government in the law, in the next amendment, which will probably be prepared soon, not only to provide for some financial compensation for natural persons hosting refugees in their homes, but also for those who, taking into account the number, offer hospitality and care. If they do not have any compensation, then, Minister, they should also be understood that when the summer season comes, and he begins with a long weekend, it will unfortunately be difficult to count on their selflessness, because they are ultimately entrepreneurs, people who also have their own families, which they also have to maintain. Now I am thinking especially about entrepreneurs, just hotelers, the owners of guesthouses in the border area, Polish-Belarusian. There's about 15 grand in there. places which, as a result of the introduction and maintenance of a state of emergency, otherwise justified, are in fact unable to earn. It would also be possible to relocate those who are still in such camps, not in refugee camps, but something that sometimes these camps resemble, like a hall in Nadarzyn, to place Ukrainian refugees there and at least in a minimal way compensate for their maintenance to entrepreneurs. The case we want to draw attention to is a request from the Belarusian independent organizations, among others. functioning in Poland, so that Belarusians, who escaped from Belarus before the war, from Russia (the bell) after 24 February, offer similar conditions to Ukrainians. And the last thing to do is to use European funds, and today the European Parliament has decided...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u413	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u414	...that EUR 3.5 billion will be allocated to countries receiving refugees, compensate for the costs of studying at Polish universities, especially those who do not speak Polish and wish to take English courses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u415	Thank you, sir, because you can talk about this for hours. Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u416	God's greetings to the victims of war! Shine, O Lord, over the souls of those who have gone to that world prematurely. But we are here in the authority of the legislative authority of the Republic of Poland and it is therefore necessary to strongly oppose the conduct of the policy of philanthropy at the expense of the Polish citizen. With due respect for this situation, it is necessary to reject the institutional policy of wiping Polish citizens into them, praise to God - still formally - war, despite all the war rhetoric, which has also been picked up and flourished here. We must strongly oppose the demand for war migration, and that is what we are dealing with right now. Where there is a system of incentives, preferences, it is necessary to ask at whose expense, and it is necessary to oppose discrimination against Polish citizens, who in recent years have fallen in the category of paupers by hundreds of thousands. Yes, this is the data of the Central Statistical Office: last year we had a whole city of paupers, 300-400 thousand. people who are not given to satisfy basic, elementary living needs, not any cultural, spiritual - living needs, i.e. Eat, get dressed, sleep under the roof. 300-400 thousand. people fell into this category, but Rzeczpospolita Polska, the Morawiecki government, Kaczyński is in a hurry to help, opening Poland for shots at the cost of Polish citizens. I strongly oppose this one. In this law on amending the law, you're moving, I'll admit, more honestly, faster than I could have assumed by step. And here are already to be employed in government administration, self-government people who do not control Polish language enough to obtain any certificate. And that means I wasn't wrong, because you didn't have to be some specially perceptive prophet to predict that this mass resettlement, because it's no longer helping war refugees, that's mass resettlement of the population, 2.5 millions since the start of this war by Moskali, and let's add millions of visitors from Ukraine to it also in earlier years, so I was not wrong to say that this demographic change would result in economic change and political change. In the next election, if you continue this way, there will be municipalities, there will be districts in which the Ukrainian party will win, maybe under another banner. And I see that there are already eager for this electorate, and you are counting on this undying gratitude. But I want it to be Poland. I want the white and red flag to be in the host's seat. I do not want you to change Poland's landscape to such an extent that we will not be able to get to know it in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u417	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u418	So I will not support under any circumstances any of these laws that you bring here, leading the mass resettlement of Ukrainians to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u419	Okay, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch. I invite you, sir, to the position of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u420	Mr President, here is Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! [[Really? Look at the flags adorning the front of this building.]] [[To Russia, please.]] [[Voice from the hall: Poland is hospitable.]] [[Don't judge yourself.]] The express pace of the bill. We understand the situation, the needs, but we forget the moments of normal seismicism, debate. We are not even able to read some of the amendments, because, Minister, this amendment of the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens has entered the Sejm on Tuesday late in the evening, and today, just before the committee meeting, Mr Kaleta's government is making amendments. Hurry up, pressure, no time, quick, quick, quick. Still, there is a need for quick help for refugees, but let us keep the rules of procedure. Let us also maintain the principles of cooperation. A few weeks ago, you rejected the opposition's amendments, and then you had to fix the mistakes. We see good solutions in this amendment, but again we make 17 amendments, which were rejected a few hours earlier: let's extend, among others. the period of payment of the grant to Polish residents hosting refugees, let us correct the wrong decision of Parliament, which was to enable local authorities not to carry out a public consultation in the form of a civil budget this year, and let us not deprive Parliament of control of public finances. I repeat and please: whenever the law refers to a citizen of Ukraine, it is also understood as a non-national Ukrainian spouse or parent of a citizen of Ukraine, provided that he has arrived in Poland directly from the territory of Ukraine in connection with military activities carried out in the territory of that State and is not a Polish citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. [[More, more.]] You're welcome. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the fourth amendment of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict. Many thanks, of course, to the Legislative Office of the Sejm for coordinating all the amendments that were tabled at today's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. But I wanted to ask: When will family members - wives, mothers, children - be able to use bank accounts established in Poland by Ukrainians who have left to fight in Ukraine, defending their homeland? By what date is the possibility for their families to access these accounts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u423	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is obliged to create a crisis guarantee fund. I would like to ask you about the amount of funds to be allocated to this fund. The project lists the sources of funding for the fund. We see that the only reliable and well-known source is the state budget, and therefore I have a question: Will the funds of this fund come from other tasks previously set out in the budget? If so, what tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u425	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. I can't see. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the procedure for transmitting the PESEL number. In smaller centres this is progressing relatively smoothly, while the problem is in larger centers where it arrived, to put it simply, more refugees from Ukraine. Is the Ministry planning to make it easier and more flexible to give this number? Whether you plan to create, support or funds to open additional points or to receive applications for the PESEL number earlier, e.g. On the border? Such facilitation would certainly be in the interests of the citizens of Ukraine and I think they would speed up this difficult procedure for them during the first days of their stay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u427	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. Is it? There isn't. Why sign up, then not wait. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u428	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about taking the eighth grade exam of Ukrainian students. Yesterday I learned from representatives of the Ministry of Education that this is not a compulsion, it is a proposal, but in fact the choice is apparent, because if they do not take this exam, they will have to repeat a year and will not be able to continue their studies in Polish secondary schools. In turn, the Ministry argues that this exam cannot be failed, but if it goes wrong - and I remind you that their Polish programming base is in force, the Polish list of readings - they also have no chance of getting into high school. This makes a frightened student from Ukraine resign from Polish schools. Shouldn't we, then, be young people with war experiences to save extra stress, ensure stressless integration, learn in Ukrainian about their country, and not really rack them up? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u429	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u430	My dear friend doesn't know what she's talking about. It is the students of the Polish technical school in north-western Poland who have recently left their boarding house and will travel dozens of kilometers, because there must be reception of refugees. My question: How much will it cost? Some time ago, Minister Maląg bid for twenty-six billion pre-estimated costs. Zoom in on that. At what time will we spend this money and how you estimate the cost of 2.5 million people displaced in this war operation in the coming years, given that employment figures in recent weeks have not been impressive. Twenty-six thousand, apparently, employed persons. Cost, cost. Ambassador Deszyca said he's talking to you about housing for displaced persons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to know how these conversations go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u431	Mr Maciej Gdula, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u432	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Twice during this meeting, I heard ministers saying that no money from the European Union was sent to Poland to help refugees. I will admit that such an atmosphere arises - and the government turns it up - that it is the evil Union that does not give us money. Well, that's not what I'm looking at. The European Commission has promised money, the European public wants to give money to help refugees, there are many countries that have adopted millions of refugees from Ukraine. I see it differently - the government is unable to organise pressure on the European Commission to give this money. I have, I admit, enough that I listen to the Prime Minister, the ministers who say the right things, but then they shake their arms and say: unfortunately, we cannot do more because the evil Union does not give us. Well, I want such a government and ministers who can (The Bell) cooperate in the European Union and effectively defend Polish interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u433	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u434	And my question is, when is this going to happen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u435	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The last few weeks have shown how great our countrymen have hearts. The words of recognition and thanks are due to local governments, associations, but especially to ordinary citizens for their selfless help and empathy. Let us not forget, however, that noble aid in this case also entails high costs, which should compensate our country. It's duty and responsibility. Unfortunately, it doesn't always look good. Since mid-March, people providing accommodation and catering to Ukrainian citizens should receive benefits of PLN 40 per day of assistance. However, I am aware that in many municipalities these benefits have not yet been implemented. In view of the above, I would like to ask what is the reason for such delays and when the State aid scheme (the Bell) will finally start to work properly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u437	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u438	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Rape is a hideous war crime. Rape affects hundreds of women and children in Ukraine. These women go to Poland and these women, after this dramatic trauma, expect help from the state, expect that if they are pregnant with rape, they will be able to perform abortion in accordance with Polish law. But they don't want to wait for months, they want it to happen quickly and smoothly. I therefore ask: Will you support the Left amendment, which is about a 7-day deadline for the prosecutor to decide on the right to abortion in the event of rape? Therefore, I ask: Will the money from the Justice Fund be directed to psychological, therapeutic, medical support for women and children - victims of this war? When's the money gonna run? 'Cause they could be running. Will you help women and children - victims of this war? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u439	Women and children - murder, right? That's a great idea. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u440	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The war in Ukraine has been going on for 6 weeks, and tens of thousands of refugees and refugees come to Poland every day. I understand that the scale of this situation may have surprised everyone, but it's been enough time to sort out some basic issues. I am in constant contact with volunteers, volunteers from stations in Warsaw, Poznań Main Station and other reception points. Volunteers report to me that a lot of things aren't working, and I'm trying to intervene on an ongoing basis. There is still a lack of coordination, cooperation with local governments, with NGOs, which in many cases must act on their own. Meanwhile, where's the government? Minister, why can't you trust organizations that have been involved in humanitarian aid for many years? When are you going to run NGOs grants so that the aid doesn't have to be based on collections, as before? Many apartments are empty because there is no nationwide base, which can be used by all entities. When are you gonna get your head out of the dirt and solve these issues? Polish people and Poles signed up for a medal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now it's your turn. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u441	What's the point of telling such nonsense? Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every day we receive more traumatic information, pictures - we observe the dying helpless people, children who stand over the graves of their mothers, we see unimaginable suffering and pain of people who are absolutely helpless in all of this. Today, as Poland, as Poles, we bring great support and help to all those in need and, of course, every day we owe great words of appreciation and gratitude. But today we need, above all, systemic action - these predictable actions and these targets. This support is expected mainly by those who are on the front line, local governments, NGOs. They should first be listened to as practitioners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there must be absolutely a clear strategy in terms of education, housing, relocation - voluntary, of course - or health protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u443	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My speech today would be called semicolon or comma or dash or dot, and you probably know why. You brought today to the Sejm a draft which was not legislatively prepared at all. Isn't it time to change habits? Isn't it time for us to start, for you to start taking care of the people who work on these committees, not Members, just normal, taking care of their time and their work? [[Voice from the Chamber: What does it mean?]] After all, it's all done so that he calls for vengeance into heaven. Minister, we must finally make a change and we must finally prepare a project so that a project already consulted with the Legislative Office will enter the Council of Ministers, otherwise it will not be possible to do so. This project was not consulted at all with the Legislative Office. This project was brought today (the bell), or actually the Legislative Bureau rewritten it at the committee meeting. That's what it looks like. Besides, take care of the little guesthouses and hotels, because they can't keep the Ukrainians through Christmas, because they can't make a living. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u445	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u446	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Continuing with my club speech, I would like to ask four very specific questions. Whether the government is considering typing directly into the content of the law, not in the regulation or any agreement between voivodships and local governments, some specific amount of compensation for hotel owners, guesthouses, holiday centres or operators of such facilities, compensating in a minimal way the cost of maintenance sometimes several dozens - and even a few hundred refugee groups? Secondly, whether the government is considering - I know that this is not an easy decision - placing in such objects in the Polish-Belarusian border strip, where there are about 15 thousand. free seats, refugees from Ukraine with similar compensation that I mentioned earlier? Thirdly, does the government provide for the possibility of extending the aid package, which is for Ukrainian refugees, including citizens of Belarus, who have escaped Russian aggression from this country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, fourthly, does the government provide for the possibility, using European funds, to compensate universities for offering English-speaking courses to Ukrainian students who do not speak Polish, as for students from European Union countries whose studies in Poland are refinanced by the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u447	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u448	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What happens beyond our eastern border should never happen, especially in the 21st century. We all see tragedies of people who live in Ukraine today or come to Poland. That is why it is our duty to support these people. Minister, I have a favor to ask of you. This government has the principle of centralizing all decisions. I would like to ask you not to go in this direction, to go towards decentralisation, to use individuals, NGOs, various associations, especially local governments. They'll do it cheaper and better. This problem we're talking about today is not just a PiS problem. This is the problem of all political parties that are in the Seym, and of all Poles. Therefore, I ask you to consider (the bell) also what the opposition proposes. Many of these solutions, really, are solutions that Poles are waiting for and our visitors from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u449	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, this situation has shown how important the European community is, how important the European Union is. Today, what the European Commission is doing also sends a clear signal that those costs that countries bear to receive refugees will be reimbursed. We already know that a fund of EUR 10 billion was launched yesterday and there is already a possibility of EUR 3.4 billion in financial resources. My question is this: Does the government have estimates of the costs that Poland will bear after the first month of adoption of this number of refugees? I am thinking here of issues related to education subsidies, NFZ issues, food costs, accommodation costs, all training and additional workers who are needed. The question is, when will the government ask for this first tranche as regards the refinancing of the costs already incurred. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the sake of clarity, the signal from the European Commission is clear: the Commission will act very quickly on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u451	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u452	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! In view of the drama of war, in view of the drama of individuals, death and murder of innocent citizens, including women and children, Poles and Poland as a community, as a nation, as a country we pass the exam of humanity. For the fourth time, we are updating the law on assistance to Ukraine and there will probably be more of these amendments, because life writes new scenarios, there are further dilemmas. We listen to the voices of local governments, labour offices, social assistance centres, representatives of education. I have an appeal to you, to the representatives of the government: treat these amendments that the opposition is making as an expression of kindness, not as an attack, as an indication of errors. I think that the adoption of these amendments today will avoid dilemmas for the future. By the way, Minister, I'd like to ask you about the functioning of the voivodship offices. Do you plan to support the voivodship offices as a government? There are very large queues at the moment when it comes to passport issues (the bell) when it comes to registration issues. I would very much ask you to answer this question in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u453	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Bosternaker to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning at an hour. 9 was a special point where we discussed the topics right here in the passport room, passport queues. You could learn a lot, hear interesting information. On the subject of the bill, I wanted first of all to thank all the parliamentary clubs, including all those who took part in today's committee meeting. First of all, I would also like to join thanks to the employees of the Legal Office of the Sejm. If these amendments for the future, which we will certainly be discussing at the next session of the Sejm, there will be amendments that we will work out together... I think that, in cooperation with local governments, we have already shown that we support such amendments. And very cordially for this cooperation will continue no matter whether I am offended from this platform or not, I will encourage. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the details of the questions that have been raised here, it is possible to compensate any entrepreneur who has not so far thought about receiving such funds for helping refugees. It is a question of signing the relevant agreements with the voivodship. Anyone who has granted this aid - and if verified - has the possibility to receive funds under the rules already in force. As far as grants for NGOs are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have been implementing the procedure for several days. There were meetings with NGOs in the field, in the voivodships. Any non-governmental organisation which has provided such assistance will be able to receive funds. I will say more: right now, at these points where there are refugees - reception points, information points, collective accommodation points - systemic agreements with NGOs will be signed. Each point will have its operator who will cooperate with other organisations. We want all of this to be structured and not because of the willingness to help or the goodwill, but because of a specific agreement between the government and the relief organization. As regards points issuing PESEL numbers, ladies and gentlemen, this law gives the possibility to increase the working opportunities of government officials in these points. That should really help. At the moment, the queues are only in big cities. In small towns there are not as large queues for PESEL number points as in big cities. I don't think it's a good idea to create such points at the border. We are mobilizing to ensure that it is organised as best as possible in large cities, in cooperation with large cities, we have prepared legal solutions that are included here, in this project. As far as hotels at the border with Belarus are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to one thing: these are the people who are fleeing the bombs and fleeing the war. In the first days as a Polish government we received a proposal from Lithuania, Lithuania was able to accept 1 000 in the first week. persons. But none of those people who run from the war wanted to go to Lithuania because these people are running as far away from the Polish eastern border as possible. I think that those people who are traumatized by war will not be interested in staying in the border belt with Belarus for longer. As a matter of principle, I am convinced that the very intention of the Member, the idea of giving money to those who have free rooms there at the moment, is right, although I think it is very often not the form of help that these refugees expect, which we also need to understand. Ladies and gentlemen! I will now answer Mr Evening's question. I am supported by Minister Konrad Szymanski. The fund has not been activated. There are announcements, but he didn't stay, and... [[... Parliament's decision.]] There is a need for a decision by the European Commission and the European Council on the European Parliament's directional ideas. That doesn't mean this fund is here. It means there's a desire, an idea for an uprising. The fund wasn't built. We'll file a motion the day after we get word that it was made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u455	You're welcome, but the committee is still... We don't have much time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Yes, sir. We will apply to receive 1 000 jointly and severally. Euros on refugee for the first six months. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this discussion. I will not answer the questions that were here, let's say, in the language of Vladimir Putin's propaganda. As you all know, they were here, too. Today's our duty... [[Answer me how much it's gonna cost. Don't be rude, Minister, just tell me how much it's gonna cost...]] Mr Braun, please behave decently in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: But I can see it hurts. Ladies and gentlemen! No matter what you scream... [[Call the Minister to answer the question asked.]] Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Today it is the responsibility of Poland and Poles to ensure the safety of Poland. [[How many refugees have you taken? How much will it cost the Poles?]] Mr Braun, please behave decently in the Parliament's Chamber and do not yell at Members or the Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: The best investment in the safety of Poland and Poles is to organize safe stays for women with children who are war refugees from Ukraine and flee from bombs. No matter what you say here, what you call them, it is our duty and this is an investment in the security of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How much is this gonna cost?]] Thank you, Minister. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Sipera, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment is a little bit, as it was said at the first reading and at the committee meeting, but, ladies and gentlemen, what I said as rapporteur is confirmed. Yes, we can mobilize, we can show that this is an important issue for Poland. Of course, apart from some, I would say extremes, but I will also skip the silence, because it is not worth doing, Poland sends one signal. Over the years, an image has been presented, often created, that we are not people who are able to organize, help, act quickly, while now we are putting on a concrete table and showing that we can. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a future pass to a lot of things, and that's why let's keep it going as long as possible. Let's work. Today, the Sejm has mobilized us to do this, and in a moment the committee will be gathering, which will continue to proceed. I think that in this spirit we will be able to finish work on this amendment. On the other hand, I think that the Minister, and not only the Minister, also other representatives of the Polish government, will be preparing further changes, but on the basis of this - once again I stress - that we are giving an opportunity and helping. We cannot replace certain things, and often there are also such statements that we would like to do a little too much. This, on the other hand, is a matter of heart and maybe a little bit of politics, but that's what work is for, as well as the ability to compromise. The process of cases and decisions taken and submitted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on behalf of the Polish government, as well as what we are working on in committee, is really valuable and I am calm that we will be responding to demand in the near future. Some of the guys who are here looking for their chance to have a normal life will definitely return to their own... [[They're coming back.]] ...if they can return, while some will stay, because they feel and believe that they are accepted in Poland and that we give them a chance. Let us maintain this opportunity for Poland, so that this agreement, which in some sense we have worked out at the moment, lasts as long as possible so that as Poland we can look with our heads up at what will be happening in Europe as well as in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u457	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2021 (Slovenia Presidency of the Council of the European Union) together with a draft resolution (prints No 2001 and 2039). I ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to provide information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present another information on half a year of work in the Council of the European Union, this time the Slovenian half-year, between July and December 2021. When you read this document, at first glance you can see that this is probably the last Presidency implemented under the powerful influence of pandemic issues. During these six months, in terms of pandemic issues, we could rather focus on drawing the right lessons from the pandemic experience, preparing institutionally for future crises, which cannot be ruled out. To this end, new rules for future coordination in crisis situations, in particular epidemic crises, have been adopted. The mandate of the European Medicines Agency and the European Medicines Centre has been strengthened. disease, the emergency preparedness and response office has been set up, HERA. It is a decentralised agency, which is normally intended to encourage the availability of medicines, anticipate potential risks related to epidemic issues, promote research and capacity development for medicines. We remember very well, I think, the very serious problems that Europe as a whole experienced because of the too far-reaching dependence in this area in the context of the massive health crisis that we have faced in those years and months. It was a matter to be fixed. It is for this purpose that the office is to work and, of course, that the Member States are to work. In crisis mode, HERA is primarily intended to improve the rules on joint purchases of all medical materials, medicines and medicines needed in a specific case. In this respect, we have used instruments known for a long time, but planned for situations where there is no crisis. They were not adapted, in particular as regards efficiency, the speed of these procedures, to the needs with which all European countries suddenly met. We remember this in particular from the beginning of the pandemic. The second problem concerns the protection of the Community market not only insofar as chaoticly introduced, often disproportionate restrictions on the Community market do not bring too much disproportionate costs to the European economy, which is important at such a time. The most important issue here is the adoption of a regulation on foreign subsidies. It is about protecting the European market and the European economy, the economies of the Member States, against acquisitions, concentration, which is implemented using subsidies from third countries. We see clearly, we have certain experience in this respect, that the Community market will be better protected against this. The aim is also to further seal the public procurement market, in particular in the context of a situation where we do not have any level of reciprocity as regards the availability of the public procurement market in third countries. Another important issue, worth noting, concerns the initial stage of negotiations on the European Union's climate policy. From the very beginning, Poland draws attention to the need to adapt this policy to, firstly, the energy price crisis that we had before the war, as well as to the requirements of energy security, which became the centre of political attention in connection with the war. I think that this whole situation has made it very clear how carefully these huge reforms need to be planned, huge transformational tasks so as not to create a situation that is dangerous for Europe, also in a purely strategic way, not only from the point of view of the security of the European economy, which has always been important. Transformation is needed, but it must be fair in terms of sharing the cost of the plan between states, economic sectors and finally social groups. Poland points out that if climate policy is not reformed, it will be the source of energy poverty for the most vulnerable social groups not only in Poland, not only in Central Europe, but also in other parts of Europe, in particular in the south. We note that the mechanisms for controlling the price of allowances in the ETS, which were planned in previous years, have not worked at this hottest, most critical moment of the energy price crisis. They must be corrected because they have proved to be completely ineffective when it comes to responding to this crisis situation that has affected many Member States, including Poland. The proposals that are currently on the table do not solve these problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We must remember this in these difficult negotiations. At the same time, the war brought the right decision to withdraw Russian fossil fuels from the European Union as soon as possible. This will also set out a revision of climate policy, in particular as regards the creation of friendly rules for investing in gas, in nuclear energy. This will raise a question about the role of gases in energy transformation. This will also raise a question about the role of renewable energy sources...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u459	Come to the end, Minister. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...in energy security. I'm sorry, I've been prepared for a little more than five minutes. But that's the rules of the Sejm. So maybe one more sentence or two, and go ahead. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: It's password-only. This Presidency is also a significant step forward in the work on the Digital Markets Act, on digital services. This is a European response to the crisis on the Polish eastern border, the European eastern border. The instrumental and, add, shameful use of migrants by Belarus has been explicitly condemned by the European Council. We have introduced this topic in the European Council. It is also a summit with the Western Balkans, it is an Eastern Partnership summit. So that, in conclusion, it can be said that the Slovenian Presidency has not only succeeded in continuing these long-term, long-term processes - some of these things I am mentioning once again before the High Chamber - but also in those matters which have become suddenly crisis-like. I am thinking in particular of the crisis on the eastern border of Poland caused by Belarus, when the Presidency as such was a good and effective partner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April to present the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u460	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the European Union Commission, to present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2021 (Slovenia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Slovenian Presidency was adopted by the Committee on European Affairs on 24 January and 26 January this year. Handed over to the High House. The government's information, as in previous years, has been prepared in cooperation with all ministries and central offices, and the President of the Council of Ministers is responsible for its presentation. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print 2001 at its 111st meeting on 17 February. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Minister Konrad Szymański. The Minister presented the progress and achievements of the Slovenian Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Slovenian Presidency has focused its efforts on the four main pillars. The first is the resilience, reconstruction and strategic autonomy of the European Union. The second is the Conference on the Future of Europe. The third is the European way of life, strengthening the European Union in the context of the rule of law, equal criteria for all. The fourth pillar is a credible and secure European Union capable of ensuring security and stability in its neighbourhood. The first priority of the Presidency - resilience, reconstruction and strategic autonomy of the EU - is a priority that fits into the current challenges facing the Union, particularly in the context of post-pandemic reconstruction. We have all seen that the Union cannot act alone, apart from the Member States. It was very important for Poland to start a discussion on the reform of climate policy. The second priority of the Presidency is the Conference on the future of Europe. The Slovenian Presidency continued its work in this conference. The European way of life, strengthening the Union in the context of the rule of law, equal criteria for all, is another priority for the Presidency. As part of the annual review of the rule of law, the European Commission published a second report on the rule of law in 2021. Poland stresses that in the preparation of such reports, the European Commission should respect principles such as transparency, objectivity and equality between Member States vis-à-vis the Treaties. Within the Presidency's last priority - a credible and secure Union capable of ensuring security and stability in its neighbourhood - continued work on the future of the Schengen area. Further actions related to the new Pact on Migration and Asylum have been discussed. In the area of other external activities of the Presidency, the Union-Western Balkans Summit is to be appreciated. The next event under the Slovenian Presidency is the Eastern Partnership Summit. Poland took an active part in the discussion at the EU forum on the future of enlargement policy and was active in the EU institutions in connection with the hybrid attack by Belarus on the eastern border. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that the Slovenian Presidency is also a time of active work for the European Union Commission. During the Slovenian presidency of the Council of the European Union, the committee held 28 meetings at which it discussed 42 EU documents and 19 information on the meetings of the Council of the European Union. The Commission has adopted two dispersals. The first concerned the need to analyse the reasons for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland's departure from the European Union. The second was the integration of nuclear energy into the European Union's green taxonomy. The Commission has given an opinion on two nominations to the EU institutions: a member of the European Court of Auditors for the term of office of 2022-2028 and a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I still have a lot to say, let me say the last two sentences. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the well prepared written information provided by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and thanking the Minister for a substantive dialogue with the members of the Commission, the European Union Commission decided to recommend the adoption of a resolution of the Polish Parliament in which the Polish Parliament adopts information on the participation of the Council of Ministers in the work of the European Union between July and December 2021 during the Slovenian presidency of the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u461	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak with Jerzy Materna, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u462	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2021 during the presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union and the committee draft resolution, print Nos 2001 and 2039. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for European Union Affairs held its meeting on 17 February. information. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union has already been the fourth one under the influence and in the context of the pandemic. Thus, the pandemic was clearly the most important topic, the problem addressed by the Slovenian Presidency. The whole of Europe, the world has been struggling with the epidemic for nearly two years. This is a matter of public health, public security. The result is the creation of a European Office for Foreign Affairs. Preparedness and response in the event of a medical emergency. This institution - HERA has two modes of action. The first mode is the usual mode, apart from the crisis situation, in which the institution focuses on funding research, exchange of information in anticipation of future crises, in view of the possibility of rapid preventive preparation for situations that may occur in a crisis form. In crisis mode, HERA is to be largely responsible for joint shopping, joint procurement, resource management, in particular, medical measures. In the same sector of action, the mandate of the European Medicines Agency and the European Centre for Medicines was strengthened. Disease prevention and control. Here too, mainly for the purchase of medicines and medical devices, the important experience of pandemics is, of course, the resilience of the common market to sudden disturbances of freedom of travel, freedom of movement across internal borders. Another important issue of the Slovenian Presidency is the opening of discussions on climate policy reform, the equality of transition, which must be fair in nature, concerns social groups, countries and economic sectors. Poland pointed out, in particular, the growing imbalance in the ETS, the lack of effective control mechanisms throughout the ETS, which has strong links with how this market is built, the problem of dependence on Gazprom, dependence on Russia, which resulted in gas prices rising in October, November and December to unprecedented levels. Poland is very active in integrating energy production from gas and atom. These actions have been successful. Another important topic is the strengthening of transatlantic ties in cooperation with NATO, the issue of cybercrime, the issue of the migration crisis in the European Union in the context of the Polish-Belarusian border. Poland, as a member of the European Union, treated this problem decisively and responsibly, often against opposition, which at every possible stage questioned all actions, such as the construction of a wall, a barrier, a fence on the Polish-Belarusian border. Today everyone can see how decisive, wise, necessary actions taken by the Polish government have a positive effect. These were long planned actions of Putin and consistently performed by Lukashenka. This was an introduction to what we could all see, the whole world, on February 24, 2022 - Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Another important topic for the European Summit: the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership Summit. The negotiations are conducted by Serbia and Montenegro, the candidate countries are Northern Macedonia and Albania, which have not yet started accession negotiations. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo shall be the most distant from the adoption into the European Union. An important element of the Eastern Partnership is also the recognition of the European aspirations of these countries, in particular the associated three: Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, summing up the above. summits, he said that if Europe does not take these countries into the European Union (the bell) then countries such as Russia, China or Arab countries will be interested in this area. Finally, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u463	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u464	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The government report on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the Slovenian Presidency is very thorough, I would say even - technical. It lists almost all the more important issues that the European Union was dealing with at the time. This is quite a document for someone who would like to study in detail the issue that was at the heart of the Slovenian Presidency during this period. But as I said, our task is rather to assess the participation of Poland and, above all, the Polish government in these works, and to assess how much this participation met expectations, to meet the needs of Poland and to deal with important Polish matters. And from this point of view I must say that the activity, as far as the Polish authorities are concerned, was not too active. It can actually be summed up in such a way that on more than 100 pages of this report about Poland it is most often written in such a way that Poland either supported something or opposed something. What did I miss out there? First of all, referring to the most important issues from the point of view of Poland, which also the Minister here did not mention during his speech. First of all, we've been waiting almost 12 months for KPO money. [[Applause]] During the six months of the Slovenian Presidency, this impasse was not broken and Poland was not able to receive advances from this programme. I don't have to add that to this day it just didn't work out. This is almost PLN 250 billion and, frankly, it is astonishing that the Minister, speaking of various other important EU initiatives, has not even come to mind. Secondly, in very important matters such as climate policy or energy transformation, the Minister, if I may recall, said that discussions are ongoing or that discussion on this subject continues. We'd like more than that, Minister. We would like to hear how Poland has achieved its legitimate goals, which we have talked about many times, that is to say, so that the transformation is fair, so that it does not lead to the depletion of the most vulnerable or most vulnerable sectors of society, and what Poland has achieved in this matter. For all we know, she didn't get anything. I mean, we couldn't convince our partners that this whole transformation program would be transformed in a way that would suit Polish interests more. All the more so now that, in the context of the war, really out of these three objectives which are to be used to supply Europe's energy - that is to say, at low cost, it must be safe to supply and must meet the conditions for the energy transition towards the green economy - of course, security of supply is the first place, and that is what we should do first. There are a number of other matters important for Poland, which have not been settled, as well as in previous half-yearly periods. Once again, I am talking about access to services in the European single market, about the mobility package, about issues related to the possibility of using EU funds for a whole range of investments such as energy transformation in Poland. We also have a whole series of open cases with the European Commission that have not only failed to deal with, but have come to a new one. There are five proceedings that have been taken against Poland in a few years and have ended at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Three of them Poland lost, the fourth one is in progress. This is a muzzle bill case. And the fifth case during the Slovenian Presidency, the committee brought to... I mean, the counter-infringement case concerning decisions of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal, grotesque judgments which call into question the fact that the European Union has certain competences in relation to issues relating to the legal system in Poland. So I must say that I am surprised at the fact that firstly (the bell), the Minister did not refer to this at all, and we pay daily almost PLN 7 million punishments at this moment that we have failed to get money from KPO, that no important initiatives such as, I don't know, asylum or migration policy have been taken. The Minister here presented...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u465	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u466	...a very active attitude of the Polish authorities - also my previous speaker - when it comes to the crisis at the Belarusian border, but I would like to say that three months nothing happened. From August to November, we had the pressure of so-called migrants, and only in November did Prime Minister Morawiecki decide to start some contacts in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u467	Get close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u468	He did not start Frontex, there were no other attempts to cooperate with the European Union. I would therefore like to say that we are not particularly delighted here - I am already going from the end, your marshal - this type of activity, participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union and the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition will vote against this information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Czerniak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Left Club on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2021 during the Slovenian presidency of the Council of the European Union. This document, which we discussed at the committee meeting, is indeed prepared or prepared in a professional manner. This information was both presented by the Minister and discussed by the committee in detail. It must be said that, during this Presidency, the main task in the European Union was to fight the pandemic in the Member States. This pandemic surprised us all, and it was the main driver of action at that time. Another problem that Europe had to deal with at that time was the implementation of the Reconstruction Fund following the sharpening of the pandemic. Political problems in many countries, including ours, in Poland, have unfortunately extended this process and the Union was therefore unable to launch the first financial tranches. It can be said that, to a large extent, the policy of our government at this very time and still unresolved problems connected with, for example, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, with the failure to allow certain judges to work or with decisions relating to the decision of the TSUE, have caused that we are unfortunately at the wrong time and in a bad situation as Poland, because no advances have been paid and they will not be paid now and our National Reconstruction Plan has not yet been approved. It should be said that a number of aspects have been positive during this Presidency. For example, the establishment of the HERA Agency or the Eastern Partnership Summit, as well as cybersecurity activities. These positives can be concluded as follows. This is the fight against the coronavirus, the establishment of the said HERA agency, the Eastern Partnership Summit, where we support the European aspirations of Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, and energy security in the framework of the Eastern Partnership's cooperation, but also migration issues. They're positive. What are the negatives? The Minister was not polite to say, perhaps he did not have enough time to do so, on the decision of the TSUE of 14 July 2021. [[Applause]] by which Poland was called upon to immediately suspend the application of national rules relating in particular to the powers of the Supreme Court's Disciplinary Board. Following this On 27 October 2021, the TSUE imposed a provision, and this provision has been in force since it was delivered to the Polish government, i.e. from 3 November, a certain amount of EUR 1 million per day, I think it is worth recalling here. This meter is beating today, i.e. approx. 700 million PLN to this day. What is important, later the TSEU, it no longer concerns that time, 16 February 2022, dismissed the complaint by Hungary and Poland on this matter related precisely to the financing from the EU budget and the application of the so-called. Conditionality mechanism. So these negative aspects, and above all the issue of the fact that our KPOs, that is, the money that we need today, which everyone is talking about, have not been approved, although I have heard somewhere about the Prime Minister's statement that this money will probably be granted to us in April. This is, of course, related to those issues I mentioned to the Disciplinar Chamber. Today we have three proposals for the Disciplinary Chamber in legislation. We do not know how this process is going to work yet, but it is certainly a condition that has been presented to us - so that this House simply does not work. If we don't do this, then the money we're owed is not going to be granted. In connection with these negative aspects related to KPO, the parliamentary club of the Left will vote against this information submitted by the Government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that this information, which is always presented here by you, and in particular the materials, demonstrates a high level of professionalism, which should be stressed regardless of the conclusions that are being drawn here. On the other hand, I think it is worth stressing that actually the Slovenian Presidency is the finale of the Troika programme, Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, which was adopted in 2020 and which is a continuation of the strategic agenda for 2019-2024. Indeed, COVID was dominant as in the previous two Presidency and its effects. But there's something in particular that's coming to plan one. Namely, the issue of building the resilience of the European Union. It is not only a question of rebuilding, but also building this resilience for the future. Immunity, which is connected, among others. with the European Union's strategic autonomy, in particular as regards change, which is an important conclusion and conclusion of experience in industrial policy, because we have brought a large part of industrial production outside Europe. It turned out that in strategic areas, even those that are related to health protection, we could not cope within the EU, for example with the production of medicines, the production of active substances for these medicines, even dressing agents or medical agents that were needed during the COVID period. Turns out you had to bring them in. How? It's from the Chinese market, where the epidemic came from. Thus, this resilient infrastructure, particularly in the area of health and the production of critical goods in Europe, has made this subject bearable. I don't think anybody's questioning that this is how it's supposed to be. At the same time, it is about reducing dependence on third countries so that these basic elements of response to emergency situations can function well. The Presidency spoke together about a resilient Europe and, above all, drew attention to issues from the area of the digital economy and the green transition, because this was linked to the launch of this European debate of 15 July 2021 on the package, which is referred to as Fit for 55, i.e. climate and energy policy. This has a huge impact on the competitiveness of the economy, but also, as has been pointed out many times, on the process of fair transformation, to which we as Poland are already particularly sensitive, and on issues relating to energy exclusion, because we see how rising energy prices affect energy exclusion and, at the same time, how expensive they are from the point of view of government reactions, in government programmes, if we want to absorb this process. It turns out that even adopted quite sensible solutions related to VAT reductions in conditions where prices of energy carriers are rising when a crisis arises are not effective. One example is fuel prices, which fell very badly at a time when we had a reduction or a waiver of VAT and, on the other hand, when energy prices and demand increased, this changed this situation very much. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the positive element in the question of taxonomy, the introduction of atom and gas for at least a limited period of time in relation to these clean energy technologies, or the adopted mechanism for so-called. carbon border tax, so-called CBAM. It seems to me that there will probably be a double-edged impact on the introduction of this carbon border tax, although it is difficult to overestimated at the moment, when we are dealing with embargoes, for example, on supplies from Belarus or Russia. On the issue of the ETS, it has been repeated on several occasions in this Chamber, the issue of a resolution in which the Sejm called for the suspension of the ETS, but on the other hand, in the position presented by the Polish Government at the meeting of the Union Council on. there has been no finding of suspension of the operation of the ETS. There were various other, and very sensible proposals related to the ETS, among others. excluding financial institutions from trading these allowances or certain changes that I will not talk about. But it has never been said to suspend, although legislation, if it is to be suspended, requires a long (Bell) procedure. Finally, I'd like to refer to one thing that I think is... In terms of financial flows there is a positive balance sheet, at least in 5 months it is more than 3 billion. On the other hand, the issue of the CPOs is shadowed by this Presidency. This is an unsolved problem, and we know what the expectations were. It seems to me that the High House really depends on whether this problem can be solved in Poland. I am not even talking about those more than 20 billion advances that we do not have at our disposal and which would be very useful to us, but I am talking about making sure that this money comes to us at all and improves the state of our economy during the period of reconstruction and the crisis caused by the war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u473	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The printing relates to the Slovenian Presidency from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021. What were the objectives of this Slovenian Presidency? European Health Union, implementation of instruments for reconstruction and strengthening resilience, green transformation, cybersecurity and digital transformation, conference on the future of Europe, rule of law and migration. And what happened during this period? First of all, adoption of the Fit for package 55, attack from Belarus on the Polish border, unsuccessful attempts to find answers to the situation in Afghanistan, draft regulation on green bonds, general implementation of the objectives of the European Green Deal, Mobility Package and Polish intervention in the TSUE on this issue, Turov issue and non-payment of Polish money from the debt fund, and until today not paid. Not much, even the European Union today has deducted more than 30 million from our funds. From a Polish perspective, two of these things are particularly interesting and show how the European Union works. The first was an attack from Belarus on the Polish border. The European Union, the Community states, should support Poland because it protects one of the borders they consider to be EU borders, and we say that these are just Polish borders. But what did the European Union do? She's got water in her mouth. She didn't actually do anything in the first few weeks. And then? Later, she expected Poland to ask for money and support. Is this the way countries should be encouraged? Oh, no. So that by our own forces, by our own army, by our own police, by our own Border Guard, we had to protect the border and build our own walls, fences, dams. Unfortunately, she's not here yet, but I hope she will. The European Union has not helped us, even though this was a crisis. But the European Union has gone further, I am talking about the Turov issue here. She decided that we should stop with coal in Turów, which is 6%. our energy mix. And in return? In return, switch to RES. And what do we do in the meantime? Use the gas. From today's perspective and war in Ukraine, we can see what terrible decisions it would be. But that is how the European Union works. And at that time, what did she allow? For Nord Stream 1 to work and Nord Stream 2 to run. And final question: How would we manage without such (the bell) of the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u475	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u476	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is an important debate. Every time we talk about the European Union, we talk about an institution that is extremely important to us, which is a great opportunity to solve problems not only European but also Polish. And every time we should wonder what Poland has done to strengthen its chances of pursuing national interests in the European Union, but also what to do to strengthen the European Union, European unity, the ability to act together, also the ability to resist Russian aggression together, because it takes place in the form of a war in Ukraine, but Russia has repeatedly attacked us in a different way. These are the questions that we should answer today. I must say that listening to the Minister, I had one positive reflection, namely that the Minister is the government representative who sees a solution to all kinds of problems in the European Union. You have talked about, for example, pandemic issues, the creation of a new agency, HERA, how we will strengthen Europe's chances of buying medicines. But on the other hand, I also have a negative reflection, because I listened to many other government representatives, for example. Prime Minister Sasin, who said that instead of fighting for the good shape of climate solutions, he would block them. I remember when he declared several times in this House an unrealistic thing that he would veto, that Poland would veto the solutions of Fit for 55, which the Prime Minister himself agreed to a year earlier. On the other hand, as we look at what is happening with KPO, what is happening with the key issue for the ability of the European Union to function, which is the common denominator that we all have, and therefore the rule of law, unfortunately we can see how the Polish government and the majority ruling in Poland do not take advantage of this opportunity, but, on the contrary, they are losing it, as they do not see in the European Union what it really is, i.e. solutions to Polish problems, and they see only and only a threat to their sovereignty. Indeed, the European Union is a threat to the power of PiS in Poland (The Bell), but it is a chance for Poles to live safely and legally in this country. Unfortunately, Minister, we will not be able to support a resolution that is positive for the activities of your government in the European Union during the Slovenian Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u477	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to address the question? I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u478	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We had the opportunity to read the information concerning the period July to December 2021. This information contains a section on energy policy. Unfortunately, it has been described very poorly. Was there any spectacular government action during this period? I'm afraid I haven't found anything like that in this area. The inhabitants of Sosnowiec, Jaworzna, Będzina, Dąbrowa Górnicza ask when the electricity prices will eventually be lower and when the prices of fuel, petrol, oil, gas for the cars they drive will be normal prices again. I would very much ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u479	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2021 is best illustrated by the current decision of the European Commission accepting EUR 15 million to the entire Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Bydgoszcz voivodship. It was thanks to the work of Minister Ziobra and Prime Minister Morawiecki that young mothers from all over the region lost EU funds to organize their return to work, and other residents lost funds to build roads. The funds were taken from the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship towards Polish debt due to government errors in dealing with Turów's problems and slowness in solving problems with the Disciplinary Chamber. And these are not media speculations. Prime Minister, the people of Kujaw and Pomerania ask and expect an urgent transfer of all the lost amount from the state budget (the bell) to the local government. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing and orally today, too, when we receive this money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u481	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u482	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Slovenian Presidency certainly deserved the appreciation and gratitude of many Europeans, the gratitude of many Poles, which unfortunately cannot be said about the government of the Republic of Poland. Minister! I am very much in favour of the government in which you are the Minister responsible for European affairs in the area of obtaining funds from the Reconstruction Fund. This is the thing that is meant to serve our country, our citizens. Today, in this difficult situation in which we are in, these measures are needed twice as much, twice as quickly. I would very much ask the Minister to provide comprehensive information as to why these measures are not yet available. I think that as I am rooting for the government in this case, so is all of Poland. I find it really hard to believe (The Bell) that despite so many months and so many possibilities, these measures still did not reach Poland. Minister, why and when the government will finally lead these funds to Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u483	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u484	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Slovenia has based its Presidency in the European Union on four pillars. One of them, the third pillar, is the pillar concerning the rule of law and the rule of law. Minister Szymański devoted less than half a page to this point in the context of the Polish national interest. Polish justice policy has been compromised. So-called. Herbal reforms only slowed down and broke down the judiciary. The Minister of Justice has conflicted with us with the European Union as a whole, and Minister Szymański has clearly shown in this document that the deformity of the judiciary is irresistible. Minister Ziobro holds Poles for his business as political hostages and is a real culprit that we have not yet received funds from KPO. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Morawiecki, courage! We really need this money, but above all we need European unity. You are faced with a choice: either Ziobro (The Bell), or Europe, Poles and the Polish state. Finally make that choice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u485	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u486	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's Christmas. I think it's a good time for the Catholic government to finally deny its sins: the sin of expensive, the sin of inflation, which has already exceeded 10%. and some faithful believe that up to 30%, and resulting from the sin of inflation, high rates of loans so destroying Polish families. The government should also stop lying about EU sanctions. You said you wouldn't pay the Union or the gold, but not only that your policy is blocking funds from the Reconstruction Fund, it is because of your stubbornness that the Union has hit us 30 million Euros, 140 million PLN. Government members should pay that amount themselves. But no, they prefer to put that cross on the nation's shoulders. Even the coming Christmases are not able to soften your hardened hearts. As part of the expiation, you should eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber (The Bell) and restore the rule of law to this oppressed nation. That would be a real Christmas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u487	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u488	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You've become the laughingstock of Europe, arguing with everyone and everything. You oppose climate policy, you destroy the judiciary, you violate human rights, the rights of LGBT+ people, the rights of women to abortion, and the rights of refugees at the Polish-Belarusian border. Your friendship with Orbán, Le Pen and other Putinites is just a disgrace. Because of your selfish, inhuman and stupid policy, Poland pays millions of penalties and still does not have an approved National Plan for Reconstruction. It's been a year since we've been waiting for funds from the Reconstruction Fund. Minister, in the name of what, and how long do we have to wait to unlock it? On 24 February, we saw that the European Union is not an imaginary community, as President Andrzej Duda called it, but the basis for our identity and security. By pushing Poland to the margin of EU policy, you are putting us in danger. You still have a chance to smarten up and put an end to this argument. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Understand that these are not disputes with the Union, but with Poles and Poles who support the freedom and values of the Western world. Membership in the European Union is the foundation of development, peace and peace. You have no right to destroy it. The Union is us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u489	Thank you. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u490	The six months of the Slovenian Presidency were no different from the other Presidency, but it certainly once again strengthened my firm conviction that the European Union is absolutely essential to our lives. Because let's think: if it weren't for the Union, who would be us. urged that urban speed be reduced to 30 km/h as the European Parliament on 6 October. If it weren't for the Union, who would have banned us from cage farming, which the Union has been working on since autumn. If not for the Union, then who would send us the blessing of totalitarian COVID passports, which were so effective that the European Union is one of the most affected regions of the world. If it wasn't for the Union, who would have promised us money to rebuild after the COVID and then didn't give it to us. If it weren't for the Union, who would be blackmailing us with Tur's punishment. If it weren't for the Union, then who would have ordered us, contrary to the treaties, to acknowledge the weddings of a man and a man, as the European Parliament did again on September 14th. If not for the Union, then who would instruct us that disabled children must not be protected from murder in the womb, and who would repeat false information disseminated by the Left that it is as if the law in Poland does not protect the life of the mother (The Bell), although this condition has not changed in the 1990s. That's a long time to ask. It's obvious that without the Union, we'd be like a mouse without a saddle. The next six months of the Presidency strengthened my firm faith in the necessity of the European Union. Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u491	Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u492	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the chapter: climate and environment in the report you write that during the work on the climate package Fit for 55 Poland stressed that its solutions should not overly burden the poorest social groups. That's right. At the same time, Poland in the Union claimed support for development for two of the world's most expensive energy sources: natural gas and nuclear energy. Don't you see the contradictions here? On the one hand, you are asking not to charge high energy costs, on the other - you want to develop the most expensive energy sources on the market, because they will allow you to maintain a monopoly on energy and high margins. In addition, you want the Union to add to this completely uneconomical and possibly the most expensive strategy in the world. At the same time in the country you block the cheapest energy today: wind on land and from 1 April sunny. Stop it, because you're still saying one thing, and you're doing another. Unlock people's access to the cheapest energy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u493	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year, 35 billion PLN of a 13-percent advance should be paid from the National Plan for Reconstruction to Poland. As we know, nothing came in. Where's the money? E.g. Italy received €25 billion, Spain - €19 billion, including €10 billion for 52 milestones, France - over €5 billion, Greece - €4 billion, Portugal and Germany - at €2200 million. The funds were received by Belgium, Lithuania and even Luxembourg. Poland received nothing. It is not the fault of the European Union, it is the fault of your government, it is the fault of the United Right, because you are arguing, you have in the government of Zbigniew Ziobra and his anti-European skeptics, who a few months ago here in this Chamber said: a referendum - even tomorrow, we must leave the European Union. And you know it. I don't know why you're still in this government. I mean, Ziobro says you're responsible for most things, and we know he's preventing you from negotiating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the way to nowhere. Cut it out, settle down and resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u495	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! With regard to the complaints I have heard from this side of the House about the high ETS prices, I would like to ask you if the Polish government, when prices were rising, last year, during the Slovenian Presidency, intervened in Brussels to change the system of valuation of emission permits so that they were not high. I wanted to ask you if you would agree with me that the Polish government used these high prices because at these highest prices it sold permits to Polish energy companies. And I would also like to ask you if you would agree with me that the money that the government received from the sale of emission permits at these bargain prices should not be used for energy transformation, not for patching holes in the budget caused by your government's wasteful policy. Please respond in writing, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u497	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u498	Thank you very much. This document does not concern the Slovenian Presidency, it concerns the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the Slovenian Presidency and this is how it should be read. Thank you very much for the very good assessments that have been repeated in this Chamber on the quality of this document. I share the view that the European NAP represents the highest level of professionalism as regards the approach to very complex decision-making processes in the European Union, much more complicated than those we are dealing with in the country, in each Member State. Very many questions, comments on the National Reconstruction Plan. Poland is not the only country that does not have a closed case, as you probably know. I wasn't just talking about this case because of the humorously short time I was offered here for a 100-page document...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u499	It's the rules of the Sejm, Minister. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...but also because this matter was not the subject of the Presidency's action or of the Council of the European Union's deliberations, it had nothing to do with it. This is a matter of bilateral talks between Poland and the European Commission. This case is going on, and that's all there is to say for today. You can also say very clearly one thing: no one will lose money because of this, Poland will not lose money because we have delays, delays of a certain type. [[She's already lost her voice.]] I am convinced that this agreement can be concluded that it should be concluded as soon as possible in order to meet the expectations of both parties in this one matter that has been agreed. There was a question here about the price of gas. It's a very important subject. Poland has done a lot in this case. Firstly, one of the key reasons for rising energy prices in the European Union, and above all gas prices, and gas plays a key role in determining the price of electricity on the European market, was the manipulation of Gazprom, which took place before the war. We were very clear about this, and we were already looking forward to conducting an anti-monopoly investigation into Gazprom anti-market practices. We haven't seen this investigation until today. I am pleased to note that the European Commission has started this investigation - a little late, but it is better than nothing. The project to reduce gas prices on the European market Poland supported, reported it at European Council level. The European Commission is due to present preliminary studies on how this can be achieved soon. It could affect energy prices. Of course, if ETS price control mechanisms in the ETS were to work, energy prices would not be so high, but they did not work and we all know that. Therefore, Poland has been demanding a reform of the ETS and an effective price control mechanism for a very long time, since much earlier than the one in which the crisis broke out. There was an important question - perhaps this is the way to construct this debate - about the important Polish issues that were dealt with during these 6 months. I will say in password: taxonomy for gas, about which Poland in a wide coalition, organized to a large extent by Poland, has been seeking for several months. Taxonomy is a friendly, predictable, stable system for investing in the energy production sector, including nuclear energy. Another large coalition organised by Poland and France in December, during the Slovenian Presidency, brought a taxonomy project, a draft of these investment rules, notified by the European Commission in line with our expectations, although this was not in line with the expectations of some other countries, including the closest neighbours. Eastern border. A massive crisis, a hybrid crisis, not just a humanitarian crisis. Poland has led to a Europeanisation of this problem, we placed this issue in the European Council in October and December, effectively involving the European Commission in actions that have effectively stopped transport, the shameful transport of migrants for purposes only and only hybrid attack on the eastern border of the European Union and Poland. So I think we may have reason to be content. Europe supported the Polish optics of looking at the conflict on the Belarusian border. Second, another issue in the field of energy security. Joint gas purchases first reported in accordance with Polish expectations in December 2021. High standards of gas storage obligations due primarily to conflict in Ukraine, with war against Ukraine, but it was necessary much earlier. Poland has been pursuing such a policy for many years. Today, this is becoming a policy for the European Union as a whole. It's more like a success. I have already mentioned the investigation into Gazprom's anti-market practices. Climate is certainly the most difficult problem for the European Union's economic and energy regulation. Was there anything we could do today at the very beginning? Yes. In the European Commission's proposals, we have a much higher cap on emission permits (The Bell), which will also be distributed from countries such as Poland. This is not a good enough step, but a step towards us. As for everything that is going on outside the ETS, we have maintained the dominant role of the criterion of GDP per capita, which is conducive to calibration of this system in terms of needs such as Poland has. The reform of the Schengen Code - the Pact of Asylum and Migration today is being examined in line with the Polish expectations that we have been reporting since 2015. I think it's a success. There's a lot more to this kind of thing. I would very much like to provide you with a little more detail than has been the case in this House so far, all the issues relating to proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the issue of the recovery fund, if you are concerned about what will happen today. It is worth remembering that this government has negotiated unprecedented high allocations in the regular budget and additional budget from the reconstruction fund. I'd love to do that. He said, on one condition - that I will have a little more than 5 minutes to report on issues that are on 100 pages, then you will also be able to account for me whether I have said something or not on your favorite subject. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Minister, that's our policy. All ministers and all rapporteurs have the same time. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020 together with the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission (prints Nos 1926 and 2053). I would very much like to ask Mr Mark Ast to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u500	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee, I have the honour to report on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020, prints 1926 and 2053. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee on 12 January 2020 for consultation. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 1 March 2022 took note of this information and held a discussion. I must say with regret that once again, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or the persons authorised to attend the committee meeting did not attend. The reasons are clear. [[Tradition.]] Previous meetings of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights have led them to be undermined by the status of the Constitutional Tribunal, and very offensive opinions have been expressed against the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this situation, in order to preserve really constitutional values, because the Constitutional Tribunal is the court of the last word which examines the compatibility of laws with the Constitution, the President did not take part in these meetings. Nevertheless, on the basis of written information, a discussion was held and, as I said, there was an opportunity to read this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u501	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u502	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to share my reflection on the information provided by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the material problems arising from the activities of the Tribunal, as well as any problems arising from the case-law of the Court. I would like to say at the beginning that my club, club Law and Justice, accepts this information, because in the mind of the principle of three divisions of power, this information is not subject to voting. The debate we are currently debating is not about assessing the case law of the Court. We can possibly speak on the basis of the information provided about the problems arising from the Court's activities, as well as the problems arising from the caselaw, i.e. in a sense interference in the legal system as a result of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, while we know very well the possibilities for interference in the legal system. As far as my assessment is concerned, I will not consider any problems relating to the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. Let me remind you that the crisis related to the Constitutional Tribunal was triggered in 2015. - I think it was the seventh term - as a result of the adoption by the then majority of the Seym law, which really dynamicized the whole agreement at the Constitutional Court. I remember that the idea was that the Sejm should in advance select further candidates for the office of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, which caused huge confusion. Another term, with the change of political agreement, actually started by tidying up the whole mess. We remember that three laws have been adopted in place of one that has been in force so far. These are laws which in a sense constitute the entire order that should be governed by the Constitutional Court. It is a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, a law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and provisions implementing these two laws, which proved to be a remedy for improving the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. It must be made clear that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has given all this advice, and today the Constitutional Tribunal is perceived in accordance with the principles which have been at the heart of the Constitution, which we have been dealing with for 25 years. The Constitutional Tribunal continues to be the body of constitutional authority which serves as a court of law and which is the only one entitled to rule on the constitutionality of important acts. I am aware that today's opposition has a different opinion from what I am presenting, but once again, it was today's opposition in 2015, when it had a parliamentary majority, that brought about this disorder, a mess at the Constitutional Court. We had to clean it all up. I would like to make it clear and very clear that today the Constitutional Tribunal is a very important body which upholds the constitutional order, is on the ground of the Polish state, defends Polish legislation, especially constitutional legislation, which we have often had proof of when an unfair settlement took place for the Polish state in international tribunals, including. The Court of Justice of the European Union or the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to express my deep gratitude to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal for this hard work (The Bell) and for the fact that it has actually restored order and order at the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, I thank the Constitutional Court for the courage to make good decisions for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u503	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u504	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Constitutional Tribunal is an exceptional court, independent of the authorities. It is 7 April 2022, approaching midnight, discussing the activity of the tribunal, an exceptional court, and in the Seym it is empty and sad, there is no President of the Tribunal in the Seym. The debate about the grandstand that should be held in the Seym was pushed into the night's darkness. However, the discussion of the problems arising from the Court's activities and case law should be one of the most important debates in Parliament. And you weren't at the Justice Committee meeting either. More than a month ago, President Marek Ast, finishing the committee meeting, said: I regret that this committee meeting cannot be held in the presence of the President. And he was right. You're right, sir. The Constitutional Tribunal in its current composition is in conflict with the Constitution, which follows directly from the decisions of the Court of December 2015, Mr. As chairman of the committee, you know that very well. On 7 April 2022, information on the activities of the Tribunal in 2020 shall be provided in the Sejm. This information was received by the Sejm in December, but the tribunal needed 12 months to draw it up. Several dozen pages in many places show almost exactly the same records as those from 2019. And I'm not talking about the contents. This appropriation is The Court has issued, among others, so-called. an abortion sentence on a political order. He raised the avalanche of social protests, caused confidence in the tribunal to fall to 20%, and distrust increased to 60%. It's also a year of so-called settlement. jurisdictional disputes between the Supreme Court and the Sejm. 7 April 2022 I'm curious what the 2021 activity report will look like. An important question and I am curious whether Mr Marek Ast knows the answer: How many substantive sentences did the tribunal deliver in 2021? Two. Both concerned a conflict around the judiciary. And when was the last time a court of law settled an ordinary human case? 22 July 2021, 9 months ago. This was the last case in which the rapporteur was Judge Leon Kieres, the last judge who had not been elected to the Constitutional Tribunal by the current parliamentary majority. High Seym! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do all Members know how long the complainant was waiting for this judgment to be delivered? 4 years. Since July Ub. The Court has not finally settled a single matter concerning the real problems of citizens, but has only dealt with the affairs of politicians. The Constitutional Tribunal - an exceptional court, pushed by the Sejm into the night darkness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u505	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are sad to begin this debate on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, carried out by Marshal Witek in late evenings, in fact without the presence of any representative of the Constitutional Tribunal. Besides, this does not happen for the first time. We had a similar situation last year. Neither in the Sejm, nor in the Senate, nor in the committee's sitting, the President or any of the judges she has appointed are bothered to participate in such an important debate. But this shows how dramatic the Polish Constitutional Court is today, how this extremely important institution, which has long ceased to be a key element of human rights protection, has become an ordinary tool in the hands of politicians. Because, even as far as the seven amendments that govern the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal are concerned, none of them have brought the Polish citizen closer to fighting for their rights. All these amendments were focused on limiting the independence of the institutions and pushing the Constitutional Tribunal into the hands of the governing party. The original sin, of course, is that there are still three illegal persons in the formation of the judge, commonly referred to as understudys. This means that judgments given with their participation have the advantage of nullity, and these judgments are already close to 350, sorry, not judgments, but judgments, they are also judgments, and judgments. This is a symptom of the deep crisis of the Constitutional Tribunal, which until a few years ago was able to issue nearly 200 judgments a year. Now it's 70. There are only twenty sentences per year, and these are two sentences per month. What are these people getting paid for? This is an increasing remuneration, as the maintenance costs of the Constitutional Tribunal have increased over the years, from 30 million in 2015 to 35 million. For what? Are they sent there on holiday? This is a mockery of the Polish constitutional court. By the way, I regret that you are not with us today, judge Julia Przyłębska, could answer the question, since we are already talking about the earnings of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, why, after a few years, when her statement of property was public, suddenly last month the first President of the Supreme Court asked the Supreme Court to have her statement granted a reserved clause. What happened in the estate of Judge Julia Przyłębska that suddenly wants to secrete his statement of property? Were there any means of unknown origin? How about Judge Julia Przyłębska suddenly bought some real estate, maybe some big house near Warsaw? [[Voice from the room: Yacht.]] It would seem that Poles should know the answer to these questions, since they claim the right to perform such an honorable role in the Polish country. But how this court is supposed to act normally, when judge Julia Przyłębska is famous for introducing the worst working methods that can be imagined in Polish judiciary, because this is the worst organised court, not only in the history of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is the worst functioning court in Poland. And the best proof of that is the story, which we all remember here, that eight judges of the Constitutional Tribunal wrote a letter to the judge Julia Przyłębska, accusing her of shameful practices, taking cases, entering their offices without their knowledge, taking documents, accusing her of politicalisation. Then how is this Court supposed to function in a normal way? Speaking, of course, about 2020, there is no way to ignore the key or symbolic ruling that took place at the time: October 2020 and the abortion sentence, which sentenced thousands of Polish women to drama, which ended in hundreds of protests in large and small towns. This is also an image of the role played by the Constitutional Court (The Bell) today. This isn't a court that takes care of a man who decides on human rights. This is a court which is a political tool in the hands of a ruling party for which there is never a limit to the cynical use of the tribunal to achieve its political objectives. This information is extremely modest, disregarding the essential elements of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is surprising that it becomes the subject of debate in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u507	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Normally, I would start this kind of speech by saying that I have the honor and pleasure of presenting the position of the Left Club. But it's neither an honor nor a pleasure, nor any privilege to stand here and talk about the activities of an organ that doesn't really exist. We've got Al. There is even a sign bearing the inscription: the Constitutional Tribunal, but long ago this building does not play a constitutional role, because it does not include people who could enjoy social trust and constitutional mandate to issue judgments to give judgments to sit in the most prestigious judges. The document discussed is information on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal and the main problems arising from its case law. But the main problem really is the Constitutional Tribunal itself, because there are judges in it who are not judges - there are doubles in it, there are doubles in it. We have a situation where hearings are shifted from hour to hour, day to day, week to week, just to fulfill the political will of the ruling party to read the expectations of the ruling party in no time. The absence of Judge Przyłębska in the courtroom is very emblematic today. It is actually a slap for the Polish parliament, but it is also an expression of shoes, arrogance and cowardice. We don't have a Constitutional Court, we only have a dummy, a building bearing the inscription: the Constitutional Tribunal, filled with political denominations. It was once an honor to listen to the justifications of such eminent judges as Prof. Łętowska, Prof. Wyrzykowski, Prof. Trzciński, Prof. Mazurkiewicz, Prof. Lech Garlicki, Prof. Zdziennicki or Prof. Wronkowska-Jaśkiewicz. Today, because of respect for this House, I will not mention the name of not one person who sits in a building called the Constitutional Tribunal, precisely because of respect for the good name and the good manner of this House. Let's take a look at what is or at least what should be the institutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is a separate constitutional body of the state, independent of political power, including parliament, the Council of Ministers and the President. What it looks like today - we all know. The Constitutional Tribunal is the body to uphold the rights and freedoms of citizens, those rights and freedoms which are based on the Constitution and international agreements. The Constitutional Tribunal is to eliminate from legal circulation all those legislative acts of authority that violate fundamental principles and values. As it is today, it's too bad to say. The so-called 'October' was an Emblemary of Freedom and Human Rights. Judgment of 2020 If we are to discuss important problems today, let's talk about them - the problem of torture, the inhuman treatment created by this shameful October judgment, anti-human, anti-feminine. In the information for 2020, we have no mention of this judgment in the context of the guaranteed right to life and the right not to be the subject of torture and inhuman treatment for every woman. There's only dry information about the life guarantee for the fetus. A woman as an independent being doesn't exist. It's a political order sentence at the expense of millions of people's health and lives. And the first real victims of this so-called. The verdict is already there - Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna or Mrs. Anna of Świdnica. I said, where is Mrs. Przylebska today? Where is the information presented to the High House just out of her mouth? Or maybe he's ashamed to appear in the Sejm because he doesn't want to confront questions about shameful judgments on the de facto termination of the European Convention on Human Rights by the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, the Constitutional Tribunal has become an extension of the ruling party, political spoil. And there's nothing to debate about merriment, nothing to enter into the substantive assessment of judgments and their directions. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: That is not what we are for.]] In fact, the Constitutional Tribunal (The Bell) has become only a restaurant, where the menu is written by Jarosław Kaczyński, and that is not what we agreed to do in the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Coalition of Poland, will join us remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u510	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland in several sentences Allow me to express my opinion on the report on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020. It seems, High Izbo, that we are behind the debates on the situation in the Constitutional Court, and also on the state of the rule of law. Today, it seems worth using this discussion for such reflection that perhaps it is time to stop trampling on this rule of law, it is time to start rebuilding it, because you can see how severe the consequences will start to be borne by all Poles. The consequences of what started just now with the famous Constitutional Court, which we are debating. It is today a sad and bitter pill, which especially the environment that rules today must swallow. It seems that the consequences of the fact that it is unconstitutional, for the institutions affected by the legal defect, for example, are still underestimated. The Supreme Court's Disciplinary Chamber will pay everyone. This is the last moment for this rule of law to begin the element after the element restore. I express my conviction and hope that, despite all common sense in most of the people making up Parliament today, the majority is taking the lead, and that, as in difficult moments of recent weeks, we have been able to achieve this rationality and agreement, as far as the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court is concerned, this first step towards restoring the rule of law in Poland will be able to do. Time flies, no one will be waiting for us, especially entrepreneurs, especially local governments, especially people for whom today stubbornness and being stuck in a big mistake is not understood when it comes to the institution, which is the Disciplinary Chamber, an institution which places a shadow on the rule of law system in Poland. Someone puts himself above the interest of the Polish society, the interest of the Polish economy - it seems good to mention this in the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, according to our club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, this information is suitable for rejection. The Constitutional Tribunal has long lost the value of a legally functioning institution, or rather played the role of the governing party's annexation. This is how we look at this tribunal and further information, unfortunately, the next years of its operation only strengthens us in this. The rule of law should begin to be restored step by step, because for the fact that Poland is stuck in such a abyss of the lack of values of the rule of law, we are unfortunately beginning to pay everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u511	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is the 10 Commandments common respect in Poland and in all Christian, Muslim countries? That's why they didn't come in. If we had passed the 10 commandments, we would have tabled the amendments after 3 months, then the amendments to the amendments and everything would have gone away. The Court does not respect the Sejm simply because we choose it. How can we respect the people we choose? This is a fundamental error of the tribunal from itself, so to speak, birth. This is a fundamental mistake. People must be unpolitical, but people elected by the Sejm are by nature political. And it can't be any different. Here several Members complained that the tribunal had given some bad judgment. I understand that only good is what these Members think is right. And some say that it is right for the majority to consider it right. Then why the tribunal? Then let's do a referendum right away. Why do we need a tribunal? This was not yet the case for the Court to follow the majority's opinion in its rulings. Because we have an absurd discussion, because we do not understand what judicial authority is, which is not the majority authority and does not come from parliament, but is intended to serve some abstract idea of justice in any way understood. We have the Constitutional Court in this country, we have the Supreme Court, and here we are already experiencing some difficulties. It is not easy to distinguish which tribunal is competent. But the most important thing is that the tribunal is constantly interfering with the necessity of legislative and executive power. And she's the fifth or fourth chamber of parliament. He makes political decisions. Unfortunately, it does not deal exclusively with the compatibility of laws with the constitution. It deals with the compatibility of the laws with what Mr Śmishek wishes or another Member, or maybe Jarosław Kaczyński. It's a basic thing. If we do not change the principle that the tribunal depends on politicians, then of course we will never be able to get out of this. In America, the judges of the tribunal, the Supreme Court - because there is only one such court - are lifelong, and therefore there is no constant problem with their selection every moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's pretty normal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u513	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, I propose that this item be considered at the next session of the Sejm. Unfortunately, for reasons unknown to me, there is no representative of the Constitutional Tribunal here. I guess that's probably not possible. And to the question I wanted to ask, I'm afraid I won't get an answer. The question is whether, indeed, the most important aspects of the non-judgmental activities of the Constitutional Tribunal fall within the stated part: selected events, for example. meetings or participation in important anniversaries. Unfortunately, the answer to this question will not be answered. I'm gonna ask for a written reply, and maybe one day I'll get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u515	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u516	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe some random accident, or maybe the Sejm's Office informed the tribunal the wrong way. Dear Marshal! Could you contact the tribunal tomorrow and ask us what the reasons for not having Julia Przyłębska with us today, because she would probably like to be here, to share her reflections on compliance with the rule of law in Poland? I'm saying it with full care. Maybe there's been an accident. On the other hand, we have such a profound and beautiful report here, and I would like to ask about this report... [[She didn't finish.]] ...or is it about protecting human dignity that the constitution prohibits humiliating treatment and punishment. I would like to ask if there may be streets in Poland (The Bell) that allow humiliation and punishment. Isn't there a constitution on these streets, and is it possible to hit them with metal sticks, or is it possible to harass people who are involved in peaceful demonstrations? I could not ask Mrs Przyłębska this question directly, for which I am sorry, but I ask the marshal to ask, on behalf of all of us who are here, I think, on behalf of the only Member of the PiS simply tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u517	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u518	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating the information of the Constitutional Court in 2020, we are debating in April 2022 under the cover of the night and, worse than that, we are debating alone because there is no representative of the Constitutional Court in this Chamber. Perhaps Mrs Julia Przyłębska wants to give us a clear message that there is no longer a constitutional body, which was the Constitutional Tribunal, that it is in fact a continuation of the rule of the parliamentary majority, namely the Law and Justice. The events of 2020 as widely discussed at the Court of Justice also form part of the broader context of governance, which consists in total depropriation of power, legislative, executive and judicial power, subjugation of the media, destruction of civil movements, the exercise of authority consisting of (the bell) the division of society, the destruction of minorities, the pursuit of LGBT, the rights of women, the attack on the rule of law of the widely understood European Communities. This policy is the eastern model of governance, but this policy has already compromised itself. For the sake of all of us, I ask the ruling majority to look into her eyes and mentally return from behind Bug to Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u519	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u520	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What did the Constitutional Tribunal give us? I know - no abortion, but it's already known by every Polish woman, and now even Ukrainians. But what else? Yeah, he broke the constitution a dozen times, but it's an old song. What else do we owe? The Constitutional Court? Chaos in the law, two legal orders, you can't hide it. But I'm asking about the success of the Constitutional Court. Termination of the Convention on Human Rights. That's a strong shot. But what did such a tribunal give us? I know - the coolest PiS judges: prosecutor of martial law, specialist in European rags. That's what we know. But who else? Best cook ever. Yes, because thanks to this, Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński has a healthy, balanced diet and a good, peaceful sleep (the bell) in the state of dictatorship. Unfortunately, he actually gave us the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u521	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u522	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal, known more recently as the constitutional cabaret, which today defends power against citizens, rather than vice versa, consisting of a group of PiS judges, who lost the attribute of independence, has nothing to do with the authority that has been built for years. I would like to ask the President, she is not here today, but maybe she is watching the Sejm on Polish or German television and maybe she will listen to us, because often in this information there was such a message that there were many delays, because there was a COVID in 2020. I have a question: When will the tribunal make up for all this catching up, because it will be easier now, so it would be worthwhile to deal with matters important to (the bell) citizens, and not only to act on a political order of Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But the tribunal is to defend the constitution, not the people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u523	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u524	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Neither Mrs. Przyłębska nor any other representative of the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal did not appear to provide information about its activities. This cowardly absence tells basically everything about this fake institution. The information sent by Mrs Przyłębska begins with the presentation of the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, but does not mention the presence of judges of doubles appointed in conflict with the Constitution. The statements on human rights, freedom and equality are a joke. The Court describes these values in the report for 2020, i.e. the year in which the Poles were de facto deprived of their right to decide on their own body and abortion was banned. It's ridiculous and it's insolent. Where is the President of Przyłębska, is she afraid of questions about the fact that from year to year TK settles fewer cases or that TK has become a home of quiet old age for former Members of the PiS like Mrs Pawłowicz or Mr Piotrowski? It must be admitted that neither the President of Przyłębska nor even the Minister of Justice is present in the Chamber (the Bell) as it is now. Let's finish this charade, the so-called one. The tribunal must be dissolved and rebuilt as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u525	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u526	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The real presence of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland is exactly as there is no Constitutional Tribunal in this Chamber. [[Applause]] There is no Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Tribunal, which is to be a constitutional court upholding the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, has recited. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What, we are to judge their judgments?]] Instead of protecting the citizens, he gets them into trouble. I have a question for the rapporteur. My dear fellow Member, these are your colleagues. I wanted to ask you what kind of an epidemic of fear was in the courtroom, that everyone had re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re. Did they get scared of the citizens? Didn't they have enough civil courage to come to the High House and confess what they did? Ask them, by the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u527	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u528	I'm really sick of this barren discussion. The Seventh Year Platform cries that it is losing the war it started, choosing several judges in 2015. You're out of your league, you're out of your league, you're out of your league, you're out of your league, you're out of your league, and now you're crying. PiS just took a bloody retaliation and plowed you to the ground, and you can't accept it. But can you justify what PiS is doing because of this? No, instead of just fixing what the Platform did, you've outflanked the baget in your direction, leveled the standards of legal culture to zero, and I don't know how this country's gonna look next time it changes power. It's scary to think. But if there is something worse than the fatal situation in connection with the Constitutional Tribunal swinged once in one time at another, then the hypocrite Smile who said that he listened with satisfaction to the justifications of earlier tribunals, while these tribunals adopted exactly the same line of case concerning abortion (the Bell) - for all these years the tribunal consistently defended the lives of unborn people. So it's a total hypocrisy of what you're saying right now, and an attempt to defy this tribunal with this. It's not a piece of a woman's body. The fetus has separate DNA, it is not a piece of a woman's body, Mr Sterczewski, it is a shruism, what you say - it is not a woman's body. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u529	Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u530	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no more Constitutional Court, there's just a fake. Worse: the symbol of women's hell remains, sir. The Constitution directly prohibits man from being killed. Meanwhile, the illegal ruling of the October pseudotribunal has led to the drama of threatening the lives and deaths of more and more women. In September, Miss Isabella died of sepsis because the doctors did not perform a life-saving abortion waiting for the fetus to die. 22 October 2020 Poland became a hell of women, so-called. The pseudo-Constitution Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska is nothing more than a symbol of this hell, and it is certainly not a Constitutional Tribunal, and this report is only worth as much as the paper on which it was printed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u531	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u532	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If anyone had doubts as to why today the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is not in the proceedings of the High Chamber and why it was not in the proceedings of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, on the basis of most of today's statements by Members of the opposition, he could see that he was absolutely right. Firstly, the statements did not concern the 2020 information, that is one thing. Apart from, of course, a sentence that could not be different, and you, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, know that very well. Mr Sosnierz came to his senses. It was not possible to give another ruling. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I cannot refer to this in any other way, because there were no questions for me. If the President, Julia Przyłębska, with the entire staff of the Constitutional Tribunal, were present, there would be virtually no answer either, because I did not hear any question about the information from the Constitutional Tribunal's activities in 2020. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u533	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal on information shall not be put to a vote. I note that the Sejm took note of the information provided by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the significant problems arising from the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal's caselaw in 2020. By the way, it's really a shame that the president didn't have the guts to show up at the Sejm. It's a sign of... If anyone is sure of their points, he is courageous and would not be afraid to appear in the Seym and listen to the Members' answers. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But to discuss his sentence?]] About the report, sir. I'm declaring a time-out. 0.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 36 hours 0 min 27]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u534	I'm reopening the session. Something's down in the hall, but we're gonna try to see if we have any friends remotely. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's check the quorum. Please press any button. I know you're still coming back from the committee meeting, so I'll wait a minute. Please press any button to confirm your presence. The meeting shall be attended by 427 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - on the condemnation of the crimes of genocide in Ukraine, print No 2164, - about commemorating the victims of the Katyn crime and the Smolensk disaster, print number 2167. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection! Let's discuss this.]] [[Voice from the room: Boo...]] [[Voice from the hall: Moscow!]] [[Voice from the room: You Russian agent!]] [[Let's debate.]] In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for print projects 2164 and 2167 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 424 - for, 10 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on commemorating the victims of the Katyn crime and the Smolensk disaster (print No 2167). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on commemoration of the victims of Katyn's crime and the Smolensk catastrophe In 1940, at the command of the highest Soviet authorities, the Soviet regime officers, contrary to the laws and moral orders, brutally murdered nearly 22,000 prisoners of war. The victims of genocide were Polish patriots, officers of the Polish Army, representatives of the Polish elite. The purpose of the crime was to exterminate not only the defenders of the Republic of Poland from September 1939, but also those who, after the end of the war, could become pillars of the reconstruction of the Polish state and sovereignty and the builders of the independent homeland. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the victims of Katyn's crime, expresses its admiration for their patriotism and devotion to the Polish cause and calls for a universal celebration by all Poles of the memory of the murdered Heroes. The courageous and decisive reminder and unambiguous condemnation of the international beastly Russian crime from more than 80 years ago, the inhuman cruelty against vulnerable victims, the violation of the principles of international law and the fundamental moral and ethical norms that the Soviet oppressors then committed, becomes a particular challenge and duty in the times of the reborn Russian imperialism. The international community must not forget the consequences of the ideology of lies, violence and contempt for human dignity, life and freedom. In the face of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the revealed crimes that Russian soldiers have committed and continue to commit, having in front of their eyes the last bloody images of Bucha and other Ukrainian towns, bringing to mind the sufferings and dramas experienced by the Polish Nation during the Second World War by German and Russian aggressors, evil must be clearly called evil and crime a crime. A solid condemnation by the international community of the illegal, inhumane actions of the criminal regime is necessary to ensure that the events recorded on the shameful history card of the Katyn genocide are never repeated again. Similarly, it is important to apply strong and effective economic sanctions to stop the criminal policy of the Russian Federation. Our appreciation, gratitude and homage belong to those who were not afraid to tell the truth about the Katyn crime at a time when the consequences could be severe, as well as to all those who spread knowledge in free Poland and strengthened the memory of genocide and its victims. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to commemorate the Polish delegation, headed by the President of the Republic of Poland, Prof. Lechem Kaczyński, who is going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn crime. We honor the victims of the government plane crash, which took place on April 10, 2010 near the airport in Smolensk. They remain courageous witnesses of the truth who died doing their duties in the service of the Republic. Hello their memory! I ask that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the victims of the Katyn crime and the Smolensk catastrophe. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on condemning the crimes of genocide in Ukraine (print No 2164). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the condemnation of the crimes of genocide in Ukraine Shocked by the evidence of the unimaginable brutality of the Russian army participating in the unlawful assault on the independent Ukrainian state, we call on the international community to respond to the extent of the crime committed in the Ukrainian people. Violence used deliberately and systematically by the Russian Federation's troops against civilian citizens and a citizen of Ukraine bears the mark of genocide. Found in the streets, cellars and collective pits, graves of dead victims of torture, rapes and arrows in the back of the head, symbolized by Bucza, are bloody proof of the criminal aspirations of Vladimir Putin's imperial politics. These war crimes go hand in hand with the constant propaganda of the Russian government media, in which the word "deukrainisation" appears, i.e. an action designed not only to deprive the Ukrainian people of the right to self-determination, but also to exist. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland looks forward to the appointment of an international committee of inquiry, which will document and verify facts, relations and opinions, and the urgent judgment of war criminals. We also demand the immediate suspension of Russia's membership in all international organisations, which uphold the modern legal order and security. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland agrees with the content of the complaint presented by the democratic authorities of Ukraine to the UN Security Council and calls on the international community to press charges against the International Court of Justice in The Hague. No one who values human freedom, rights and dignity, democracy rules and the foundations of civilization has the right to pass indifferently to the tragedy of the Ukrainians. Following the discovery of the victims of the Bucha massacre, further action is needed. Countries and governments that cannot join this coalition of justice join, purpose or not, the coalition of Russian lawlessness. Please accept this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on condemning the crimes of genocide in Ukraine. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on the Copernicus Academy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2070? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 188 - for, 246 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2021 (Slovenia Presidency of the Council of the European Union) together with a committee draft resolution. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2039. We're voting. Who is in favour of the resolution from print no. 2039? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I see you still have a lot of strength. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: We have, we have.]] Well, maybe I'll slow down the reading, hang out a little bit longer. [[Voice from the room: No.]] No? [[Voice from the room: It's not worth to go to bed.]] Exactly. 446 Members voted. 231 - for, 213 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2021 (the leadership of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union). We return to the consideration of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2166-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government bill amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, print No 2147. At this meeting, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 2166 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering 35 amendments at its meeting on 7 April - we finished on 8 April - recommends: 26 amendments are rejected, nine amendments are accepted, provided amendments 18 and 19 and 23 and 25 are to be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u536	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2166. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as an additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. We are voting on Amendment 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 217 - for, 227 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 446 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 444 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 54 for, uh, 238, 154 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 210 - for, 224 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 209 - for, 238 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 209 - for, 239 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 218 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 236 - for, 200 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the first minority proposal. Who is in favour of the first minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 230 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the second minority proposal. Who is in favour of the second minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the third minority proposal. Who is in favour of the third minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 213 - for, 229 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 80 - for, against - 230, 133 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 206 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 211-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 79 - for, 230 - against, 135 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 15th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 15th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 82 for, 240 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 16th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 16th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 82 for, 239 against, 122 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 206 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. About the 18th and 19th amendments. we vote together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who's in favour of Amendments 18 and 19? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 203 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 20th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 80 - for, 240 - against, 124 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 21st Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 21st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 208 - for, 238 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 22. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 22nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 206 - for, 230 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are now voting together on Amendment 23 and Amendment 35. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who is in favour of amendments 23rd and 35th? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 443 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 24. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 24th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 205 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 25th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 25th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 206 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the 26th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 26th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 208 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 27th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 213 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 28th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 28th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 213 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 29th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 217 - for, 227 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the 30th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 30th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 31st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 31st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 215 for, 227 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 32nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 32nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 182 - for, 246 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 33rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 33rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 205 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 34th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of the 34th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 440 - for, no one was against, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2166, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 434 - for, 10 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory and certain other laws. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 7 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Unless they pulled out. Then I'll ask if any of you want to get on the list again. Come on in. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No one is reporting, and therefore I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Two minutes off. [[Wait a minute.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u537	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 7 April, all civilized countries of the world celebrate the World Health Day established by the World Health Organisation. In Poland this holiday is celebrated together with the Day of the Health Service Workers. This year's celebrations take place under the motto Our planet, our health. The WHO recommends this year that they focus their attention on what is necessary to protect the planet, so that it gives a chance to live in good health and allows society to improve its quality of life. Russia's brutal assault on Ukraine and its related threats to the whole of Europe have today raised a great question about the security of countries and nations, as well as about our economic and environmental security. That is why I would like to appeal to the government, and especially to the Minister for Climate and Environment, to try to do more for ecology this year than for the past almost 7 years. It's a shame, for example. on eco-innovation Poland is on the tail of the countries of the European Union. World Health Day is also the day of all those who have accepted as their calling to help another person in a difficult time of illness. I would like to thank all health care professionals and those who directly rescue and cure, and those without whom this would not be possible, for their dedication and effort to help those in need and for their concern for the health of their patients. I direct special words from this place to colleagues - health professionals from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. I wish you good health, satisfaction with your work and all good fortune to accompany you in your daily work and personal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u539	Mr Marek Rutka, Left. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To celebrate history is not only to inform about dates and wars, but to convey pride that it belongs to a nation with a glorious past. Science should also include learning about the origins of our national symbols, which include Mazurek Dąbrowski. He became an anthem of Poland on February 26, 1927, 95 years ago. However, before this song became a national symbol, several others claimed it. At the beginning of our statehood according to the message of John Długosz and other chroniclers the hymn was the pious song of God-parent, sung at Grunwald in 1410, at Wiłkomierz in 1435 and even in Chocim in 1621. Later, Gaude Mater Polonia Wincenty from Kielce, written in honor of St. Stanislaw of Szczepanow. During the partitions in the Kingdom of Poland, sometimes known as the Congress Kingdom, the role of the hymn was performed by the singer Alojze Feliński and Jan Nepomucen Kaszewski, whom we know under the title of God, something Poland. In the November Uprising, Warsaw was sung, which - interestingly - was founded in Paris. In relation to the special circumstances written in 1797. Dąbrowski's Mazurka was not ambitious to become a national song. The text of the song was written by Józef Wybicki at the request of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski. To this day, we do not know who is the author of the music. The melody was to support Poles fighting in Italy, and together with a few legionaries, it came to Poland to become an official symbol of the struggle to regain independence. When the first basic law was passed after independence, the March Constitution was not settled on the hymn. The issue of national colors and emblems was found, but the hymn raised controversy. In addition, several songs claimed the title. It was thought about Rota, to which Maria Konopnicka wrote, or about the already mentioned God, something about Poland. In the end, he became an anthem in two stages, Mazurek Dąbrowski. On March 21, General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, then Minister of Military Affairs, ordered honors to be given to Mazurka Dąbrowski and on February 26, 1927. The Ministry of the Interior issued a circular which established this song with the official anthem of the Republic of Poland. Long live Poland! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u541	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the day of the health care professional, letters are also affected, which talk about a difficult situation related to the remuneration of technical staff of Polish hospitals. It's about the medical technicians. They write, among others.: Our salary is currently approx. PLN 2890-3000 per hand. During the pandemic, we also repaired equipment from COVID troops. We've been exposed to infection. We often enter the COVID zone, so-called. dirty, to devices that cannot be transported out of the zone because they are permanently connected to the installation. An example of this is e.g. washing machines which are permanently connected to sewage, water and electricity installations. We repair, among others. beds, pressure gauges, thermometers, syringe pumps, cardiograms, ventilators, surgical and surgical lamps. You can't replace all the devices. The hospital isn't just a doctor and a nurse. Their work is very important and we respect it, but without us they will have nowhere to put the patient and what to treat him. Doctors and nurses get salary increases, and they forget about us all the time. The recent price increases cause us to stop having something to live for and maintain our families - says the technical staff of Polish hospitals. I therefore ask the Minister of Health to take an interest in this subject and to take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u543	Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 12 years ago Poland mourned. On 10 April 2010, the president of the brightest Republic of Poland, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, together with his wife Maria, President of the Republic of Poland in the exile of Ryszard Kaczorowski and 93 passengers, wonderful Poles, died in the crash of the aircraft TU-154M near Smoleńsk. Our homeland has suffered a great loss. The commanders of the Armed Forces, politicians, clergymen and representatives of the Katyn families who were to attend the 70th anniversary of the Katyn crime were killed. It is our duty to pass on the memory of the Smolensk catastrophe to the next generations of Poles, so that the victim of the life of all participants of this dramatic flight, this greatest modern tragedy of the Polish people, will never be forgotten, and the cause of the catastrophe - will be explained as soon as possible. Hello their memory! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u545	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister of Interior and Administration Kaminski! I would like to appeal, as a Member of the Podlasie region, to be reassembled - I would like to point out: to be reassembled - by the Podlasie Border Guard officers with long weapons. My request is motivated by the fact that the Belarusian bordermen have such weapons, long weapons. I care very much that the Border Guard in Podlaskie Voivodeship, which guards the entire length of the border in Podlaskie Voivodeship, has such a weapon. Officers also point out that these weapons are aligned with the weapons owned by the Polish Army soldiers, the Territorial Defence Forces. The Border Guard of Podlasie is aware that in time it will be left alone on the Polish-Belarusian border, that there will be no more troops, territorial defence troops or police. And they're asking to be fitted with these weapons by then. I look forward to understanding the matter, Minister Kaminski. I also address your marshal, who has a real impact on what is happening in the rule of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u547	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary interpellation is one of the forms of Polish parliamentary control. It consists of sending a letter through the marshal to the Prime Minister or ministers. Parliamentarians have the right to ask questions, the right to request answers, the right to draw conclusions from them. The reply to the interpellation must be given within a specified period of time. The bill says it's supposed to be 21 days. So much for the law. And in practice, I have the data in front of me here, Marek Rutka is waiting for an answer to the interview 767 days, Krzysztof Śmishek - 758 days, Maciej Kopiec - 737 days, Piotr Adamowicz - 631 days, Konrad Berkowicz - 631 days, among others. on the priorities of financial policy for the period 2020-2021, this will be a historic hearing when this answer comes. Katarzyna Osos awaits 606 days, Joanna Mucha - 576 days, and Wiesław Szczepański - 576 days. These are interpellations. As regards the questions, Jarosław Urbaniak awaits 493 days, Wojciech Król - 423 days, Paweł Rychlik - 302 days, Tadeusz Tomaszewski - 205 days. There are so many Members waiting for a response from ministers. Why am I talking about this today? Because I've been waiting more than four months to answer my question. This is a question about the forms of property statements submitted by local government officials and shown in them by the head of one of the tax offices of irregularities. I have been waiting 3 months for a reply to another interpelation - on the rights of the old man as the issuing authority for persons for whom the court has finally ruled against driving only certain categories. Mr. Marshal! It is a bit of a shame that representatives of cultural institutions, organizations defending minority rights, people with disabilities, self-government, accountants, administrative staff, women injured during protests, athletes, pensioners, pensioners will wait over 2 years or almost 2 years to answer an interpellation or an inquiry. If you take this opportunity, please, Mr. Marshal, you may be able to use your authority to get government members to try to keep up with this deadline for 21 days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u549	Thank you. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles, countrymen, helpers! This is what happened to us in this historic, historical window, when a powerful, multimillion-dollar Ukrainian diaspora hit our straits, that many of us have become, want or not, helpers, helpers. So let me tell you, as a sociotherapist, about three important elements that need to be guided at this time, helping women, girls and young men who have come to hide here in a safe Polish home. The first question is, they can't stay idle. The fact that they have a roof over their head and food is not enough. They should find, and you should find, along with them, fields of activity. The activities that result from their skills, their competences, their passions, so as not to worry, do not remain passive. This is extremely important. The second point I would like to bring up is the extraordinary concern for femininity, for gentleness, for sensitivity. It is about the non-harassment of the various men who, in the situation of remaining alone, without carers, without husbands, may feel a certain temptation to violate their privacy and delicacy. I am talking about this relatively gently, but I simply do not want any signals to be ignored that may reveal some evil intentions towards Ukrainian women who are currently in Poland. And the third point I want to address to you helpers is an attempt to talk to a young man who evaluates his presence here and wonders why he doesn't defend his homeland there. Their runaway, their battlefield is right now taking care of the mothers, grandmothers, sisters and siblings they came here with, and that's their job, these young men, these young Ukrainians. It's worth talking to them about it so they don't get into some sense of badness or - I'd say - the feeling that they're cowards because they're not defending their country. There will come a time when they will be able to go to the army and defend already safe and free Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u551	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. [[No, Andzel Waldek.]] We'll move it. You're welcome, sir. I was wrong, but I'll be right back. [[There you go.]] Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u552	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement today is on the European Union's blockage of funds from the Reconstruction Fund. It is extremely shameful that the funds from the Reconstruction Fund are still being blocked by the EU institutions when Poland has already adopted 2.5 million Ukrainian citizens and 96% That number is women and children. Poland vetoed the proposal for a European Union directive on corporate tax. Several countries care about its reception. Is this really what the idea of the European Community is about? It is also crazy that, according to the Commissioner for the European Union, the budget is too early to provide specific financial support to the countries of the European Union receiving refugees. Member States and high-level EU officials should hit their chests because we are about to have complete chaos on our common political stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u553	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u554	Mr. Marshal couldn't wait to see me. Well, that's a good thing, because as a historian in a previous life, they have fallen politically today, and I hope you'll listen to the marshal with the attention of what I have to say. As a footnote to the debate I have proposed on two resolutions which the Sejm, chaired by the Bureau, insisted on pushing through the acclamation, 2164 and 2167: Why do I not support the acclamation? The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls for an independent investigation into crimes committed in Ukraine - where there are always crimes, there is no doubt about it, it does not seem to us, it is really happening. But to whom do we assign them? If it is to be determined, if the Sejm is demanding that there be an independent international investigation, then I see no reason for it to prejudice the outcome of this investigation and to nominate, on the basis of purely political grounds, those convicted before future tribunals. That's once. Two, if the Sejm, to which I agree of all measure, wants to take care of the heart memory and the Katyn crime of 1940, and of the crime which we have commonly called Smolensk, I will rather talk about the Warsaw-Smolensk assassination of 2010, if the Sejm wants to do what I join, to keep the memory of these events, do not mix it with a political run. This is particularly despicable, especially perfidious of the current majority, from the United Righteous, who went to power under the motto of this memory and betrayed those who accompanied PiS along this way with appetizers. As soon as you took power, you changed it into change, you changed the agenda, I followed it in the meetings of the National Defence Committee, I watched this spectacle with Minister Antoni Macierewicz in the lead role, which as a Smoleński report shows animated films. We'll see what he shows in the next few days. So do not change into small memories of the warm, important to all Polish patriots your present and (The Bell) do not use big cases and authentic crimes to drag Poland into war, which, praise God, is still not formally ours. Godspeed, good night.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u555	Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u556	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This year is the 41st anniversary of Bydgoszcz events. On March 19, 1981, events took place in the Voivodeship National Council building in Bydgoszcz, which shocked public opinion and alarmed many countries of the world with the possibility of Soviet intervention in Poland. Dramaturgy related to the beating of trade union activists has obscured the public's deeper background and the causes of the events of that time. Their beginning is linked to the taking of protest actions by farmers demanding registration of their own trade union. Representatives of the NSZZ Solidarity and the villagers were invited to the WRN session. The farmers' representatives were Michał Bartoszcze, Marek Gawinecki, Marek Klonecki, Edmund Marciniak and Tadeusz Szymańczak, while Solidarity was represented by Marian Ewald, Marian Fanslau, Maciej Głuszkowski, Krzysztof Gotoski, Grzegorz Hauslinger, Andrzej Hybiak, Andrzej Krajewski, Mariusz Łabentowicz, Bolesław Magierowski, Zdzisław Młynarkiewicz, Anna Olszt, Stefan Pastuszewski, Maria Pieczyńska, Zygmunt Pulikowski, Jan Rulewski, Henryk Sikora, Jan Szalyga, Jerzy Szulc, Piotr Szydłowski, Antoni Tokarczuk, Jarosław Wenderlich and Lech Winiarski. The unionists and peasants, despite the promise they had made earlier, were not allowed into the headquarters of the WRN and threatened to initiate an occupation strike. For the authorities, this was an uncomfortable situation because farmers carried out a similar strike at the ZSL headquarters at ul. The train station. At the head of this strike was the famous agricultural activist from Inowroclaw, a member of the management of NSZZ Individual Farmers of Solidarity Roman Bartoszcze. Unfortunately, after a few hours of negotiations, the authorities called on militia and ZOMO to remove protestors in the session room of trade unionists and farmers. There's been a smashing of a few people. As a result, Michał Bartoszcze, Mariusz Labentowicz and Jan Rulewski were hospitalized. The local incident quickly turned into a national socio-political crisis. In protest against what happened in Bydgoszcz, local trade unions conducted a protest and warning strike in the Bydgoszcz region, which took over the whole country. As a result, on 30 March, the authorities concluded an agreement with the trade unions in which they undertook to grant their consent to the registration of agricultural solidarity. I thank all the activists who fought against the Communists for free, independent Poland at this difficult time. Today, many of them have turned to eternal watch, many are in a difficult health situation. I want to assure you of my memory, prayer for all of them, especially for Mr Tadeusz Jaskułski from Vienna, Andrzej Mazurowicz from Bydgoszcz and their mutual acquaintances (The Bell), which I will talk about soon in the High House. Get well and strong. We need you. We are with you heart and prayer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u557	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This was supposed to be a formal motion for the Left Club at tonight's Sejm meeting. The parliamentary club of the Left asked Marshal Witek to recess and convene the Senior Convention to put on the agenda the information of the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra on the grounds of the criminal charges against Mrs Justyna Wydrzynska. Unfortunately, for incomprehensible reasons, which were not in accordance with the Sejm's rules, we did not make this formal application. I explain that in 5 hours in Warsaw the criminal trial of Mrs Justyna Wydrzynska, a human rights defender who is threatened by up to 3 years in prison for trying to help a pregnant woman experiencing violence at home by her husband. The DA, instead of protecting the victim, supported her executioner. Tomorrow's trial will be Europe's first case of criminal prosecution of an activist for assisting in this situation. It's outrageous all over the world. 130 gynecological and obstetric associations from all over the world have asked the Polish government to withdraw all charges against Ms Justyna Wydrzynska and depenalize abortion procedures in Poland. The process in this case brings together signatures all over the world. The Left Parliamentary Club shall make a resolution on this matter calling on the justice system to withdraw from these allegations. We are becoming a barbaric state in which the harm of women serves to satisfy the political interests of a group of cynical fanatics who simply hate women. We don't agree to that, and we won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-07-sejm-52-2.u559	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 13 April 2022 until 3 p.m. 16. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2 min 21]]
