ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u1	I'm reopening the 40th Senate meeting. Let me remind you that we are considering the 1st item in which the report was already presented by the Senator, Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, on the previous day. As we proceed with the procedure, I would like to remind you that the senators are Senators Mariusz Gromko and Jerzy Wcisła. Senator Mariusz Gromko's list of speakers today. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check that all of you have disabled applications for remote participation and that the Senators participating in the sitting remotely, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen! We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. Please hold, so to speak, the conversations and focus on pressing the button to confirm your participation, I will add, the button at any stage. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. And the IT guys, please show me a disparaging vote. Mrs. I.T.? Oh, there it is. Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws. I will remind you for the second time that we will vote on this bill today after the procedure has been completed. It will be the same if we can do it today, with 2 government laws, because the resorts asked us to adopt them urgently, and these are the environmental law, the particular law, and the waste from ships. The deadlines for implementing these laws are quite urgent. I would like to remind you that before the session was interrupted, the rapporteur, Mr Morawska-Stanecka, presented a report to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. We are now asking questions. The senators may submit a question to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who would be Senator Klich, but remotely, and your marshal is present personally. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. We'll have a marshal for the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions. One is linked to the case law of the TSUE. Did any of the rulings of the TSUE, decision or judgment say anything about the National Judicial Council? And the second question: was this case, I would call it, the case of the KRS, also in the examination of the Constitutional Court? Was there a verdict in this case, and what is this sentence? You often use the unconstitutional term KRS. So I would like to hear the answer to that second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, answer me. To ask questions, I would ask them to speak a little louder. I heard what the senator said, but somehow... I don't know if the mike's out of control. A little louder, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u4	There was no such judgment directly, however, in many judgments of the TSEU, in the justifications of those judgments, but also, and even in particular, in the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, unfortunately this thread appears. It was about the nominations of judges who were appointed by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council. In fact, for us today the resolution of the 7 Supreme Court Judges of 2 June 2022, our Supreme Court, which stated that the National Council of Judicial Affairs formed since 2018 is not the same body as the Constitutional Authority, is of the utmost importance. This is a very important ruling. In principle, it confirms the line that the applicants have adopted when drafting this law, the National Judicial Council is not set up in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, because these 15 persons should be appointed by the judicial community. This is the European standard. It should also be pointed out that the Executive Board of the European Judicial Council Network has also spoken very strongly on this issue. The Venice Commission also commented on this in its opinions. All those issues that later affect the choice of judges This is a very important issue because it is about access to justice They're fundamental. This is also of great importance for the fundamental principles concerning the independence of courts and the independence of judges, the principles approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations. All career decisions of judges should be based on objective criteria and the recruitment and promotion of judges should be based on their achievements taking into account qualifications, integrity, capacity and efficiency. For each decision concerning recruitment, recruitment, appointment, career or termination of the profession by the judge, the statutes provide for the participation of the body The most important charge is that these 15 people should be raised from the judicial community. The project aims to restore this standard as well as to this And that's what I'm paying attention to. So that all levels of the judiciary have their representation. I remember the charges previously brought against the National Judicial Council before these changes. This required reform, not destruction, amendment of the rules and violations of the Constitution. It's a work of art. 11a, which states that the members of the board are elected by the Supreme Court: 1 Judge; Courts of Appeal; 1 Judge; District Courts; 2 Judges; District Courts; 8 Judges; Military Courts; 1 Judge, NSA; 1 Judge; Voivodeship Administrative Courts; 1 Judge. Only then will the council reflect the entire judiciary in Poland. Every part of the common court, regardless of the level, has a representative here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Is there anything else I can do? Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] If you don't mind, Senator... Senator Gogacz has raised his hand before. Next up, Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u6	Senator, rapporteur! I would like to ask you about the introduction of the article. 11a. You listed here the number of individual judges. These judges consist of 15 judges in this part of the jury. Tell me, is this the kind of rigid frame that these judges are left in? I mean, like... Since you have entered two general court judges in the law as regards the district courts and eight general court judges as regards the district courts, whether, for the entire term of office, a judge of the regional court who has been elected as a member of the National Judicial Council... In this bill, do you deny the judge of the district court the opportunity to participate in the competitions for a judge of the district court or a judge of even higher rank? Because, as I understand it, these eight judges of the regional courts are to remain eight such judges at all times. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u7	No. It's a matter of timing. The point is, the judges... This isn't about people who are chosen, it's about people who choose. So two judges will only point to the judges of the district courts, eight judges will point to only the judges of the district courts. That's what this is about. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u8	You're welcome. Senator Czerwinski will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u9	In that case, Senator, it means that this bill that you want to introduce... Well, as far as the records in it are concerned, this is the case. Just the moment of choice, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u10	The moment of choice. [[And about...]] No, it doesn't contradict the possibility of a judge being promoted from this group to a national council. [[So I understand that then the bill's provisions will be incorrect when...]] They won't be incorrect. [[It'll be written down by eight, that's eight...]] The bill is about choosing, the moment of choice, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u11	Question - answer, question - answer, not polemics. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: About the moment of choice.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I got the answer to the first question. The TSUE does not comment on the KRS, at least directly That's how you put it. But I didn't get the answer to the second question. Well, even you used the unconstitutional concept of KRS in your answer. Who in Poland says What body, which authority states Was any of the authorities elected constitutionally, in accordance with the Constitution, or unconstitutionally? And is there anyone else who can touch such a decision? In other words, did anybody say legally that the National Court of Justice was not elected in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u13	The senator knows exactly what the answer to that question is. But let me put it another way: the Constitutional Tribunal does not have the power to assess judgments and interpretations of laws. These powers were taken away by the Court in 1997 by the Constitution. And art. 188 of the Constitution clearly states in which cases the Constitutional Tribunal is ruling. The question of whether today these laws, which of course have a presumption of constitutionality, have someone in Poland to eliminate from the legal trade... Because that's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for, that if the law is incompatible with the Constitution, it should eliminate it from the legal market. Today And that's what I'm saying with all responsibility. The Constitutional Tribunal does not have the capacity, unfortunately, as a result of the changes that have taken place in the Court since 2016, or even since 2015, when properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have not been sworn in. This started with a whole series of destruction and, in principle, the disenfranchising of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the question is provocative, Senator. I'll answer you like this. Today, the Legislative Commission considered the report And you've come out of this committee meeting. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, once again, perhaps the third, did not present itself to submit a report. Well, the President himself shows the importance of the Constitutional Tribunal in this country, because the respectable President of a respectable constitutional body appears with another constitutional body to report and to conduct a substantive, substantive, and perhaps sometimes scientific discussion on the case law of that Tribunal in the previous year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u14	Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] No, no, no, Mr. Senator. Senator Frost is reporting. I'm asking you to ask questions about the merits of the bill. Diwagations and questions, which, by the way, the senator apparently knows the answer, not concerning the matter of the bill, I will limit. Right now, you're asking Senator Frost, next up is Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal, I've been partly beaten by Senator Czerwiński. Your Marshal said that such a reason why the authors of this law, the initiators of this bill, submitted this draft, was the question of the Supreme Court's judgment, which stated that the current formation of the National Court of Justice is contrary to the Constitution and that this body does not have the attributes of a constitutional body. Mrs. Marshal, in the light of the above, please tell me... Of course, the authors... we, as a parliament, can form a KRS as we wish. But here you said there was a reason. And why didn't your marshal say that the law under which the KRS is being formed today was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019? The Constitutional Tribunal, by interpreting the constitution's wording, which is inconclusive, because he only speaks of the fact that the Sejm is calling from among the judges... and there is no real... There's a gap, and it's a question of interpretation. And the Constitutional Tribunal interpreted this article, and the current Constitutional Court found that the manner in which the National Courts were elected was in line with the Constitution. [[Timer signal]] Therefore, I ask this question: is this sentence known to your marshal, and do you agree with him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u16	Judgments aren't to agree with them or disagree with them. I on the Constitutional Tribunal after 2015, but really later, after the President's change, I have already spoken. And it's not related to the matter of this bill. Mr. Senator made a false assumption. The reason for this proposal is not that a judgment was passed last week because this law was filed at the beginning of 2020. I remind Mr Senator, and this was said in the report that the committees were sitting on this law at meetings of 4, 25 February, 3, 5 March 2020, 5 February 2021, a public hearing was held on 5 March 2020. In such a way it was basically the only hearing that took place in relation to this law, because we thought that this matter was important enough, important enough and could raise such doubts... Anyway, he wakes up, because all of the, really, all of the judgments, all of the cases in the European Court of Human Rights that there are dozens of... The composition of the court is questioned not because these judges have no jurisdiction to rule, and not because the President's prerogative to appoint them is also questioned, because that is absolutely not disputed by anybody, but because the first part, i.e. the appointment of the person concerned, is carried out in a faulty manner. Defective because it nominates an authority which is not the same body as the constitutional body. And what the Supreme Court said in the judgment of last Thursday, is the applicant in some sense. In view of the complaints that had already been lodged at the time, they predicted. Only when we're We proposed and when we started working on this law, it was an element for possibly dozens of people. Today, this affects nearly 1,000 people. And this is legal chaos. Mr. Senator, the legal chaos has unfortunately created the Government of Law and Justice, in that term and in that term, in the judiciary. We're still trying to fix this legal chaos. I will raise just one more point: it will most likely also be questioned before the European Court of Human Rights, because the European Commission may also be preparing a proposal for anti-infringement proceedings against Poland, precisely as regards the National Courts of Justice. We're getting ahead of ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments we made last week, which the Senate recommended to the Supreme Court Act, to the presidential project, those Senate amendments plus this law on the National Court Register, which the Senate is proceeding today, are all those milestones that determine to a lesser or greater extent... Because there are things to which the Commission attaches greater importance, e.g. Restoration of judges, which is also included in our amendments last week. But there are other issues here, for example. ensuring the right to a court within the meaning of Article. 6. We really should lean on this together, rejecting the idea of who is more right, putting aside political disputes, because the fate of our citizens is really at stake. And one more thing to calm you down. Despite such huge reservations about the process of setting up the National Judicial Council of the previous term of office and, unfortunately, the current one, which has already been appointed by the Sejm... this proposal clearly points out, so as to cut any diffactions in order to resolve any doubts that all judgments which have been given by the judges appointed in the nomination process in which this legal defect occurred. That's what we call it. They're important. This is important because today such judgments are being questioned. We, as Parliament, should end this legal chaos.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u17	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, some of the provisions of this bill are definitely repressive and unconstitutional. I will quote one of them: a candidate for a member of the Council referred to in Article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, there may not be a judge who is either three years before the date of the announcement of the election has been delegated to carry out administrative activities in the Ministry of Justice or other organisational unit under the Minister or supervised by him, the President's Registry or the Office serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. Why do you, as a lawyer with many years of experience, push this kind of record, which some judges deprive of public rights, deprives of passive electoral rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u19	Dear Senator, I would like to know if you are questioning the constitutionality of this provision, which provision of the Constitution is contrary to this provision. Secondly, in different situations, people who have certain functions have no right to have other functions. And it's not a restriction on public rights, it's just certain guarantees of independence and independence. Regarding this article That's the mouth. The point is that persons who are delegated to act in executive bodies, i.e. in government, should return to judgment, as it were, reintegrate into the judicial environment and only then run for office. I'll be honest with you, there have been different conclusions... We had, as you remember, a lot of opinions about the bill. It was even suggested that this period should be longer than 3 years and was 5 years old, but we agreed it should be 3 years. The point is to, I would say, disable those relationships that arise during work, for example. At the President's Office or at the Ministry of Justice, personal and social relationships, and for this man to return to the environment he's supposed to represent as a candidate for the National Judicial Council. That was the assumption. And when it comes to the issue of constitutional compatibility, you can't rely on a violation of the constitution when... Because you question the restoration of the rule of law. This is restoring constitutional order and restoring the rule of law. This charge of violation of the Constitution is misplaced because there is no conflict with any provision of the Constitution. That's not enough, all the opinions that were there didn't question that. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u20	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it really... The questions are pretty narrow, so to speak, at least from my side, and I would ask for narrow answers to questions, not spreading them here, I would call it a historical drawing. Purpose of the Act, beginning of the explanatory memorandum: the purpose of the Act is to introduce a validation mechanism which heals the status of judges appointed in violation of the Constitution. You state that they were called in violation of the Constitution. In our legal system, only one body is ruling about the violation of the Constitution: the Constitutional Tribunal. You stated that the Constitutional Tribunal was unconstitutional, so I understood. The question, which of the authorities in Poland or which of the institutions is currently according to you constitutionally and can determine the compatibility of the law with the constitution. Is there an organ?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u23	Dear Senator, There is also such a thing as a scattered constitutional control in law science. I'll say it again. For compatibility checks... [[But the question is...]] Would you mind not interrupting me? You're welcome. Every court is authorised to control the constitutionality of the Constitutional Act, any court may determine that, and the Constitutional Tribunal is entitled, as the only body, to eliminate such a legal act from legal transactions. I'll give you examples. There were such judgments when the law was wide and did not cover a certain issue or in some sense was incompatible with the constitution that, on the basis of the constitution, the court, the general court, passed a judgment. In the last 30 years there have been such cases in Poland. But you are right in one thing: there is no body in Poland today, in my opinion, which is able to eliminate an unconstitutional act from legal trading. In the current state of fact, not legal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u24	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to do the job...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u25	Excuse me, one sentence of correction. I didn't think it was. I just asked you, and you said, "You're right, you don't have an organ that could...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u26	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you. You said that the record I asked you about earlier restores self-government. And did you verify, by presenting this provision, this bill, or did you not find judges who were directly elected from a delegation to the Ministry of Justice or to the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u28	They were, and we think it was wrong. [[And then there was no rule of law, I understand. Yes?]] We think it was wrong. I'll say it again, Senator, what I said before. Legislative doubts, by the way, not only in relation to the National Judicial Council... After all, we know very well that our justice system, also in 2015, required reform. But reforms, not destruction. And the reform is to fix it, not to rebuild it in such a way that it is no longer the body that should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u29	Thank you very much, Marshal. I don't hear any more questions. [[Voices from the room: One more thing...]] I'm so sorry, it wasn't written down. I'm so sorry. If you're Senator Frost, then first... Later, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I'm sorry, I just didn't have my names written out. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for you. If we had adopted this draft law, it would have passed the whole legislative path, it would have become the law in force, and that would mean the end of the current term of office of the National Court of Justice. I remember that when we adopted the current rules, it was the state, the Civic Platform, the Senators of the Civic Platform, that said it was against the constitution. Now you want to interrupt the current term of office of the National Council. So, depending on what the advice is, you can interrupt this term? Can't it be interrupted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u31	The answer is very simple. This body is not the same body as the constitutional body. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u32	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, one thing, to explain the previous questions. Perhaps you didn't hear it. That's what needs to be corrected. The beginning of everything that's going on and what's going to happen is that you're choosing 5 extra judges... [[Mr. Senator, it's not a story...]] ...the Constitutional Tribunal in May. The decision was made in May. After the first round of the presidential election, you just tried to activate the fuses so that nothing would change. And that's what it's really all about. [[But, Senator, ask me a question.]] [[That's not a question, that's history.]] [[Please ask me to ask you a question.]] But it wasn't a meaningless story. I have another question, Mr. Marshal, 20 seconds. You are introducing the Social Council to the National Courts. Well, I don't think there's been a body like that before, but maybe... [[It wasn't, it wasn't.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: There wasn't.]] It wasn't. This advice is made up of e.g. also representatives of the President, and it is known that the President is an executive body. [[Timer signal]] Isn't this mixing with myself, I'd say, the powers of the executive authority and the authority in this case the judicial, actually the parole court?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u35	Thank you for this very substantive question, Senator. I'm going to dispel these doubts. It is precisely because the Social Council is not included in the Constitution that it is only of an opinion-making nature. Because this is the opinion of this council... It's more about the influence of citizens, including legal organisations, NGOs, of course the president's representatives on... It's about assessing what the KRS is doing. It's a consultative body of the council that kind of strengthens society's relationship with the council as a judicial authority. Therefore, this danger is not present here, because it is only an advisory body. He doesn't have any powers that would oblige counsel to do anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u36	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[It is, it is, I volunteered.]] Oh, there you go. I'm so sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, if the Social Council is to be a civil body or maybe a citizen's voice on the Council, I am asking why citizens cannot indicate the members of this body.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u38	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u39	Mr. Senator, that's a very valid question. Well, it's in the project. The senator is on the Human Rights Committee, and I remember that the senator was actively attending committee meetings. I very much regret that the Senator did not make such an amendment, because perhaps this could also be considered. I believe that this is an issue that could be considered. Well, there's no such thing as that. But remember, citizens have the right to point out... At least 2 000 citizens having the right to elect the Sejm have the right to designate a candidate as a member of the National Judicial Council. [[But it's not the same.]] But once again, I'm saying it's a shame the senator didn't get involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u40	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal, do you believe that the restoration of the rule of law, I take it in quotes As understood as you understand it, is it possible in an unlawful manner? This principle of restoring the rule of law is more important than the law, right? Why am I asking this question? Because your marshal referred to the fact that this law is part of the restoration of the rule of law in Poland, together with the changes and amendments of the Senate to the Supreme Court Act, and yet one of the Senate amendments, and even two of them, are clearly against the law, since it is said that judges of the Disciplinary Chamber are now to be thrown out without the possibility of going to rest. It's verbally, it's just not in line with the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u42	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u43	Firstly, the Disciplinary Chamber is not a court within the meaning of European law, which we are required to comply with. And it must be remembered, Senator, that we already have 1 billion penalties to pay for the fact that this chamber is still functioning, and this is not a court. Therefore, there is no breach of the law here. Secondly, the law is not something that the rule of law can be quoted. I really don't wish for the senator or anyone in this room to have such a rule of law, and now I take it in quotes. Like our eastern border, because this is a country about which we can say that in it the rule of law is in quotes. The law is the law and there are no compromises in the law. Either the law is or the law isn't. Either something's legal or something's against the law and you can't discuss it. Something's white or black. If the law is defective, the law must be changed. And it's not like the ruling of a European tribunal or a court, e.g. The European Court of Human Rights may have its supporters and opponents. A judicial decision given by an authority authorized to do so is not something that will have supporters or opponents. It is not for discussion, it is to be respected. It's like the court sentenced someone to a fine and... Let's say the court ruled that the debtor was to pay the creditor, and the debtor said, "But I disagree with this judgment." And for seven years, the state has caused such chaos that something like this can unfortunately happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u44	Thank you very much. Here's another question you're asking Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u45	I'll just fill it in. Your marshal didn't understand me or deliberately escaped the question. Indeed, the TSUE stated that the Disciplinary Chamber should not operate under European law, but did not question the legitimacy and legality of the judges who are ruling there. And the Senate's amendment to the Presidential Act tries to eliminate such judges. After all, it is very clear in the Constitution that judges are independent and indelible. That's what I've been asking in this context. It's not about the House. It's about the judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u46	This is the natural consequence of this not being a court.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u47	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, I'm staring. My question is, I'd call it procedural. I think it's important. Well, actually, in the days, at this session of the Sejm, which seems to be beginning today, there will be a vote on our senate amendments to the bill... Well, not ours, because we were against it. These are your amendments to the amendment of the Supreme Court Act. And now there's a question. In the text that I have at my disposal, print no. 50 S, there are also provisions amending this law. Do these provisions take account of these amendments? Do they assume any hypothetical condition that will be after the Sejm's examination of these amendments? How do we agree on that? Because at the same time, we're working on two legal acts that deal with the same matter. The Sejm is working on it, and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u49	I understand, Senator. I'll calm you down. We are making precisely the amendments that adapt these provisions. At this meeting, we are making amendments to this law, which sort of clean it up. Well, in fact, there are also provisions on the Disciplinary Chamber in this text that need to be removed so that it is legislatively refined. The Commission will work on these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u50	You're welcome, Senator Peanut.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear the KRS is unconstitutional. Who said that? Remind us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u52	She's unconstitutional, that's all, Senator. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are really serious issues. They shouldn't make you laugh. It is unconstitutional because the judges have been elected by the Members of the Sejm. Who said that? In all judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which concern matters of Poland... There have been probably three judgments so far, but, as I say, several dozen such cases are still in the European Court of Human Rights. It is precisely the lack of impartiality, independence, independence. In its judgments, the Court justified this precisely by the fact that they were chosen in a defective procedure. And we want it, Senator, to fix it. It is precisely about not questioning the judgments which were given by judges who were called in this way. And let's remind you that there's probably over 1,000 judges already. That is why there is a provision in this law that all these judgments are valid and valid. And if there's any doubt... Because with such doubts, the parties today turn to the European Court of Human Rights, which has already ruled three times in this case. It makes you laugh, but the tribunal has used these arguments three times already. If he decides 90 more times, he'll probably use the same arguments so there's no chaos. So if the party questions the appointment of a judge, this procedure, it will be able to address it in Poland within 2 years and this new National Judicial Council will simply assess whether this procedure was valid or not, but it will not have any effect on the validity of the judgment. So this will cause a legal order that the Polish citizen will not want to seek help in Strasbourg, but will be able to ask here to see if this judge, who was called with a legal defect, is impartial or not. There's one more thing. This has a great deal to do with the decision in the President's Act on the impartiality test. In its resolution of the composition of 7 judges of 2 June 2022, the Supreme Court stated that the National Judicial Council is not the same body as the constitutional body, and added that there is no grounds for adoption in advance and that each judge nominated after 2018 by the National Court of Justice does not meet the requirement of minimum impartiality, although all new judges are affected by the flaw of the wrong appointment. And we in this law are giving the citizen the opportunity to use the path here on a national forum to possibly check it out. This is a matter that is really going to restore legal order.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u53	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u54	I would like to ask: who, then, in Poland is entitled to rule on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of a given body?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u55	That question has already been asked by Senator Czerwinski and the answer has been given.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u56	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u57	Thank you very much. I have two questions for your marshal about those questions that have come up. Is it true that the European Judicial Council Network has removed KRS from its membership? [[Oh...]] That's the first question. And the second question is, are you familiar with your opinion? If you don't, I'll quote it briefly. The KRS of yesterday's day, which concluded, in a nutshell, of course, that the Senate is more problematic with its amendments to the Disciplinary Chamber than the Disciplinary Chamber operating in the same mode as in the present? So, the Senate has exceeded its powers and, in short, doesn't improve the legal system, but according to the National Court Register, it's devastating? What's the bigger problem? Is the Senate and its activities a bigger problem or the Disciplinary Chamber? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u59	Thank you very much. It is true, Mr Senator, that on 28 October 2021, the European Network of Councils of Courts removed the Polish National Courts from this network. I'll just tell you what the European Judicial Council Network is. This is an international organisation that brings together 22 councils from 25 European countries. It is paradoxical and sad that Poland was one of the countries that created this council. 86 representatives of the judicial councils voted in favour of the removal of Poland. What was the reason? In breach of the main principles of the organisation; failure to respect the statutory principle according to which each member of the European Network of Judicial Councils should be independent of the legislative and executive authority in view of the fact that 15 judges of the National Judicial Council were interrupted in 2018 and the new members were elected by the Sejm; the lack of support for the independence of the judiciary after a period of suspension in the Council. I will remind the senators, by the way, because maybe not everyone remembers that the members of the current KRS, who were chosen in this way, were actively involved in the search for hooks on unruly judges, e.g. The former head of Leszek Mazur advised Judge Cichocki and Szmydt to strike Judge Zurek. It's already a matter of lack of competence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal. Could I ask the senators not to disturb your senator in response?]] ...ethical-moral not only to sit on this council, but also to be a judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u60	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Ambrozik's question. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator... wait a minute, okay? Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Well, then maybe I'll move that question to later, and now I'll ask Senator Czerwinski, who's also registered, and then Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u61	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. High Izbo! Mrs Marshal, however, I will return to these issues of parallel discussion on the same matter in the Seym and the Senate. Because it can really lead to some... well, not perturbation, but we're gonna kick open doors or the opposite. Well, it's a vote in the Sejm. This is, of course, the planned schedule for the Senate amendments, which are largely in this text that I have here, is planned for tomorrow, between 1 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. Well, since we are now dealing with this draft law, of course, the amendments that you will make, which must address these issues relating to the Supreme Court, will be put to the vote probably during a break, unless we postpone it. [[Timer signal]] Well, if we vote on them in a break, I mean today, then we won't know the Sejm's ruling, which isn't so...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u62	Time, Mr. Senator. That's one question you're asking... [[You're welcome...]] ...and almost every time you're out of time. If this were the first question, it could be considered, but you have a record of asking a lot of these questions, first he makes very long speeches, which are not a question, and the question is asked at the time when time is running out. Therefore, I take away your voice because of respect for the House. I ask you to ask Senator Ambrozik's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, there's a record that you're putting in for a public hearing of the candidates for the board. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Yes.]] Every citizen has the opportunity to ask a question there. I'd like to ask, how is this going to work? I don't know. 38 million citizens are gonna ask questions? Of course, well, somehow I understand it, but I can't imagine the procedure for this public hearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u64	This procedure will be electronic, Senator. When these rules were created, i.e. before the pandemic, one could still say that one could not imagine that there would be a remote meeting and that any citizen who would want to join would be able to ask questions. But today, after 2 years of electronic functioning in different situations, we are perfectly able to imagine it. It'll be remote. [[Remote, live, as I understand it? If you don't mind me asking...]] Remote, live. But it doesn't have to be 35 million people... [[Yeah, maybe 10 million people ask a question, that's true. Thank you.]] I think, unfortunately, so many citizens I'm saying it with great regret. He is not interested in justice and the rule of law. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u65	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mrs Marshal, to sum up: you do not think that, as a result of time tensions, work on this law should be slowed down, not too much, and certainly send it back to the committee in such a form that these amendments, which you will present, should first be examined by the committee and then, as a single text, be put to the meeting? Otherwise, we will have very large, essential amendments to the bill, and voting in the same way as in the case of ordinary amendments, I would call it, cleaning the text after second reading. Not much, knowing that the Sejm is working on the same matter... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Even...]] Well, actually, he shouldn't be doing that. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: We, I consider, against the background of the bill...]] In a way, the procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u67	We have been working on this bill for more than two years, and therefore the release of work is unnecessary. We have amendments that we have been working on all week, which adapt the text of this law to the changes we have adopted, and certainly will not duplicate these issues. Besides, as a member of the Legislative Committee, the senator will certainly be able to tell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u68	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] Sorry, you're still Senator Gawłowski. You're welcome. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u69	I only have one question: is this the beginning of this bill or is it the end? Because I have...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u70	It's over. We've been working on this bill for over two years. [[In the Senate, but this project goes to the Sejm...]] The beginning, the beginning, of course. [[So this is the beginning...]] This is a legislative initiative. [[This is a legislative initiative.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u71	Thank you very much. [[So this project will come back...]] Please ask questions. [[... which were only evidence of lack of knowledge of the legislative procedure.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I repeat, now is the time to ask questions that have just ended. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? There is no government representative, and therefore, the Senators Which I inform your senators with the greatest regret You will not be able to hear the opinion of the Polish government about the bill that we are considering, nor will you have the opportunity to ask questions to the representative of the government. All of this is because, despite the invitation, there is no representative of the government at the Senate of the Lightest Republic. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A week ago in this Chamber, the senators voted to amend the Supreme Court Act, which was submitted by the President of the Republic, in short, to the Disciplinar Chamber. Ms Małgorzata Paprocka, representing the President, presented the bill, expressed her deep conviction that this law is in line with the milestones which the European Commission considers necessary to unlock the payment due to Poland from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Dear Senators, we have taken our responsibilities seriously and have introduced many amendments to the presidential project, which the Polish rule of law, which have been destroyed over the last years by the government camp, in some sense, are certainly not enough, but are improving. We did not agree to powder the problems related to the whole issue of the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber, the ruling and the future of the neo-Judges. We've done some serious work. Our decisions were accepted by the whole House, all senators and, of course, brought us closer to the expected and needed funds from KPO. But with our decisions, at least I think of the senators of the democratic majority, not only the concern for Poland's money, but the sensitivity and need for our response, the need to restore in Poland the full rule of law, full democracy, the concern for the independence of courts and independence of judges. And that's why I'm hoping that this bill that we passed here in the Senate in parallel in the Seym a week ago... I hope that the Members will sustain our decisions, will not destroy our work, our decisions, because these decisions we have talked about, and your Marshal has also said that they will restore the rule of law in Poland to a greater extent and will certainly respond to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the Disciplinary Chamber. But the bill, which was adopted and corrected by the Senate, does not concern the biggest milestone, I would say, the first cause of most problems connected with the Polish justice system, with the judiciary, or KRS. There will be no true rule of law in Poland without the liquidation of the National Judicial Council chosen by the Sejm according to the rules of the rule which introduced Law and Justice. The whole camp of power took part in this in December 2017, i.e. in the selection of the National Courts in a way that is incompatible with the Constitution, that is illegal. There's no senator to talk about it. Oh, he's coming in right now. The constitution in this regard is difficult to interpret. It's not. Let me remind you that... well, I'll remind you the rules, because it seems like we should all know that. According to Art. 187 The Constitution of the Republic of the Sejm to the National Judicial Council elects 4 members and 15 judges chooses the judicial environment. So the Sejm selects 4 members, the Senate 2 members and the end, period. This is a rule whose interpretation is obvious, that is written in a clear way. After the attempt on the independence of the National Courts of Justice and Law, 15 judges are elected by Members and candidates are politicians, political parties. It was an illegal procedure that caused an unconstitutional increase in the number of members of the KRS with political powers. That's the essence of the problem. High Senate, June 2nd this year. 7 judges of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court have ruled that the new KRS is illegal. It's illegal because its composition is unconstitutional, well, I talked about it before. The Supreme Court thus confirmed what had already been the result of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights. This ruling also confirmed the earlier judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, the ruling of the Supreme Court, including the historic judgment of January 2020, given by the Chamber in its full composition. I would like to appeal to history, to our heritage, to many people's important heritage of Solidarity. Many of us got involved in the year of the breakthrough, in 1989, when a compromise was born in pain regarding Poland's future system. The "Solidarity" environment, including Lech Kaczyński, with experience of stubbornness of all the institutions of the state, including the judiciary during the period of the Polish People's Republic, effectively sought to ensure that the KRS Act came into force very early, because in 1989 it secured the independence of this important body, so that in future it did not experience this problem, which was in the judiciary and many other institutions of the period rightly passed. The 1997 Constitution confirmed this. Art. 187 of the Constitution regulates the activities of this body which is independent of political forces quite precisely. This is at least the case in the Constitution and it was the dream of many generations of Poles that the justice system in Poland should be independent of the will of politicians. That is actually, I would say such a sad reflection that after 33 years from then, we are returning to the starting point, to the debate, to work on a law that is to re-politicize, to separate the justice system, in particular the National Judicial Council. Similar to our assessment of the new KRS or neo-KRS, your marshals also have international institutions, including the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the absence of its independence, because of the links between its members of judges, I am talking about the National Court of Justice and the politicians, with the Minister of Justice, with Minister Ziobra, the leader of the political party has been excluded from the European Judicial Council Network, which is an unprecedented situation. It is simply regrettable and regrettable that the international assessment of the activities of the National Judicial Council is just like this. During my work on the Supreme Court Act, which closed the Disciplinar Chamber, I wondered why the President did not take the opportunity to propose further solutions concerning real repair, real restoration of the rule of law in Poland, and also did not propose a law on the liquidation of neo-KRS. But the answer is simple: the President is a hostage to the situation that he co-created and co-created, taking part in the dismantling of democratic institutions of the state, among others. The Constitutional Tribunal, as mentioned here, but also the National Courts, the Supreme Court and many other institutions. I will quote a passage from the resolution of the Supreme Court on June 7th. I quote: the person acting as President of the Republic is personally responsible for deciding to appoint judges in spite of the nomination process under conditions that violate fundamental rights. High Izbo, unfortunately, the president has a serious responsibility when he gives the judge an appointment at the request of the National Court of Justice, which is illegal. The act of appointment is therefore illegal. And it won't change the fact that you accept it. In fact, there is a doctrine that the election of the President removes all irregularities that are in the decision-making process, in the process of promoting judges. Well, the president's decision is to punish everything... [[Timer signal]] ...and from that moment on, everything's okay. I'm moving slowly to the end. Further to its resolution, the Supreme Court states: this situation not only disturbs the state of the three divisions of power, limiting in a far-reaching way the independence of the judiciary, but also raises doubts as to the impartiality of the judge appointed to office after the request of the non-constitutional body appointed by the Sejm majority, thus dependent on the current political situation. High Izbo, submitting a bill to the Senate to heal the KRS It is imperfect, we make amendments to it, which take into account the change in the legal environment, the new situation in which we are in. We are guided by the public good, the good of the state and the concern for Polish democracy. We do not agree that the justice system should be the subject of the distribution of political spoils and an element of internal struggle in the power camp. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, minute by minute.]] The mystery of the polyshinel is already finished with the deal, a deal concluded between Solidarna Polska and Ziobra and the Law and Justice. In exchange for concessions to the Disciplinary Chamber Act, a new composition of the neo-KRS was established in accordance with the wish of Minister Ziobra. The Democratic majority in the Senate takes their duties towards the voters seriously, their duty towards the country and is faithful to ideals, the legacy of August '80, the movement "Solidarity" which at the dawn of modern Polish democracy said that independent judiciary is a pillar of democratic order. This law and many others will heal, I hope, the Polish justice system and the Polish judiciary. And if not now, in some time we will restore to Poles the sense that they live in a democratic state in which the judiciary is independent and plays its role as a serious pillar of the democratic rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u73	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This debate has been going on for a long time. The matter of the National Judicial Council has long been a bone of disagreement between the democratic opposition and the Law and Justice. There is often a reference to the Constitutional Tribunal and its judgments. I am, of course, talking about this Court, which is currently operating. Today, too, many questions have been asked about how all this applies to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the case of the National Courts. Senator Czerwiński said that it all started with the fact that future judges were elected to the Constitutional Tribunal too early. Well, it's been seven years since then, and maybe some of these things have gone into memory. I'll remind her. Indeed, such a choice has been made. This election was challenged to the Constitutional Court, not by anyone else, but by Members of Law and Justice. The proposal was addressed before the elections to the Constitutional Tribunal. We've all been waiting for a resolution that could explain the whole thing. However, those Members of the Law and Justice who applied for this proposal, after the elections, when they realized they had a majority, withdrew the proposal. Why? That's why to use this example and to do what you want with the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: And they did...]] This was not quite the case, because this proposal was repeated and the Constitutional Tribunal finally expressed its views on the matter. And he made it clear, namely: 2 judges should not be chosen, while 3 judges should be chosen correctly and should take up these seats. However, the President did not want to take the oath from them, these places remained unattended, and other judges, others, were elected to these places. And that is why this Court, I ask you, is a Court which is flawedly filled, simply. Except for all the other things that have been going on in there since then until today... In addition, the President of Przyłębska was also appointed to this position unlawfully because there was no resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, these things can happen in different countries, but not in democratic countries, because they shouldn't happen there. The Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union are designed to intervene in such situations, because there is no other authority, one can say, in such a situation. And we have these judgments, we have judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which speaks very clearly about the National Courts of Human Rights. As far as the Court of Justice of the EU is concerned, it is not directly, but... But this tribunal left this issue to the Polish judicial authorities. The Supreme Court has spoken in this case. I'll remind you that three chambers have spoken, and after these three chambers... After all, we have a recent sentence of seven judges from a few days ago. Well, of course you can insist, you can say you don't. But please note that the interpretation that I am referring to here about the Law and Justice is an interpretation that is not confirmed in any external opinions, objective opinions. Now, about the recipe itself... That's what we've been talking about. The Sejm chooses four, the Senate chooses two... There is no presumption that 15 judges choose the Sejm. There can be no such presumption, because if we let such a presumption... I'm gonna ask the question: why not the president? Why couldn't the Sejm adopt such a bill that the president would appoint these 15? How about the Prime Minister? How about the Council of Ministers? It doesn't say... And if it doesn't say, anyone can. Yes? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this leads to absurdity. Another thing. We also need to look at the authentic interpretation, that is, what happened in the past, how the National Judicial Council was established. One of the judges of the Supreme Court, who recently delivered this judgment, said this and said this: the shape of the body referred to in the Constitution is the result of the Round Table arrangement in 1989. I will add that there were Kaczynskis present and accepted it When the principles of the future Polish system were established and it was pointed out in a clear way that the National Courts were composed of representatives of 3 authorities, i.e. legislative, executive and judicial authorities, each of which was to elect their representatives to the National Courts. And then, if so, in the name of what reason should the representatives of one authority elect representatives of another authority to the council? But that's not the end of it. In 1997, when we adopted the Constitution I was a member of the Constitutional Commission, and I remember the matter perfectly. There was no doubt that the judges were elected. It is not enough if you would like to take a look at the transcript of the discussion on this subject. Because there was a discussion about how many, how, what, what, etc. That's what you'd see there are clear voices pointing to the fact that it's the judges who choose. So what happened? - No, I have to be clear. This is an impertinent stretch of the constitution, a violation of this constitution. Recently, a few days ago, he appeared in an interview with the President of Manowska. President Manovska is hard to suspect. It's about her being something of an opposition advocate. Well, she's a judge, so she's apolitical, independent, so it's hard to say... But it was indicated by the President, and it was indicated against the opinion of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court, it received, to say the least, a rather modest number of votes, and yet became the first president. And this very president in this interview says the following: I quote. Question: "What direction do you think the KRS should change?" Answer: The previous KRS model was bad, both present. In my opinion, there are two ways to solve this problem. Or a general election by judges, but not by judicial assemblies of individual courts, only after the formation of electoral committees... That's exactly what's in this project, exactly that. Or, first, two-step selection of candidates for general elections by judges and the election of final members by parliament. I do not agree with the fact that by Parliament, but I would like to say that if you accepted this option at the very beginning, it would be much harder to question it, because nevertheless this choice would be made from judges elected in general elections. Yeah, but it's the first thing that matters. Question: "Last time the term of the KRS ended," was an excellent opportunity to change this system, and despite threats and controversy it was not used. Why do you think that happened? Answer: 'I don't know, ask the politicians.' Editor: The politicians claim that such a system is good. Madam President: I allow myself to have a different opinion and to express it in conversation with the Prime Minister and the President. But I'm not a politician, I'm just expressing my opinion as a lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to convince you of this, since even the first president of the Supreme Court who... [[Voice from the room: Their man.]] No, let us not use such expressions as their man or their man. In any case, the man appointed by the President, clearly, and that is contrary, as I stress once again, to the opinion of the vast majority of Supreme Court judges... [[Timer signal]] If he's saying what he's saying... So the insistence on this matter only deepens the chaos that is taking place. Meanwhile, this solution, which we are proposing, can close this topic at all, can finally take it off the agenda so that everyone will take care of building the welfare of the Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u75	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There are, like, two issues to settle. The first question, I understand, is the division that causes controversy. And from this, as a result of this controversial first issue, there is a second issue. But what causes controversy? It raises controversy as to whether the current law and the way these 15 judges are appointed by Parliament to the National Courts of Justice is lawful or illegal. So it's an interpretation of the article. 187. I don't know if most of your senators might be. She read this article. So I will quote it: The National Judicial Council consists of... And now item 1: The first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the person appointed by the President of the Republic. It doesn't cause any controversy, everything is clear and clear. Paragraph 2: Fifteen members elected from among the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. We know who to choose from. We have to choose judges from all kinds of courts. But the constitution doesn't say anything about who has to choose those 15 judges. And also point 3: four members chosen by the Sejm from among the Members and two members elected by the Senate from among the Senators. It's not controversial either. And now I have a question for two senators sitting in this room, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Marshal Borowski, who wrote this constitution. It should have been written that these 15 judges were elected by judges, then there would have been no doubt. And the authors of the constitution, among others. Senators, all they said was we have to pick 15 judges. Well, it's also defined which types of courts, so to speak, they're supposed to come from. But let's keep reading, 'cause there's still mouths. 4: The system, scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Board; and It's important. The choice of its members shall be governed by the law. The authors of the Constitution delegate this in this article, indicating that the way in which these members are elected will be defined by the law. Well, what members? Not the ones in the article. 1, for it is clear that the President of the Supreme Court enters the council, and not those of the mouth. 3, where it is clear that the Sejm selects 4 members and the Senate selects 2 members. It has to be referred to that mouth. 2, where I don't know why The authors of the Constitution have not written down who has to choose these 15 judges. Instead, they gave mouths. Four, so the Sejm can call it. And the Sejm, so to speak, he said. Someone might like it, and you might as well have a different opinion. Like your marshal said, you can make a bill like that that 15 members are called by the president. This law can be adopted because unfortunately, the Constitution does not include who has to choose these 15 members. And now it's often referred to as a legal statement that if it were to be the Sejm... Well, point 3 says only four members choose the Sejm. But there's something else in there. The Sejm chooses them, but from among the Members. So, the Constitution's authors wanted the National Courts to have MEPs. It doesn't say... If there, in point 3, it says that the Sejm selects four judges, that would be important. It would be known that the authors of the constitution said: we want four members to choose the Sejm. But the authors of the constitution said this: 4 members choose the Sejm, but from among the Members. And now there's a question... This legal dispute is about who has to choose those 15 judges. Well, you didn't volunteer to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. Why is there such a record here? Why hasn't this been clarified? Who's to choose? Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 187 says it's gonna be a bill. And I respect your project where you say it should be a general election among judges. But also respect the solution in which the Sejm chooses them. Perhaps one day there will be another parliamentary majority who will say: these 15 judges will be elected by the President of the Republic of Poland. If we adopt such a law, if it goes through the whole legislative process and becomes a law, then as much as possible these 15 members will be able to appoint e.g. President of the Republic of Poland. And that, as I understand it, is the dispute that separates us. It's about interpretation of the law. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that from the moment the Constitutional Tribunal examined the current law, which is the law saying that it is the Sejm that elects these 15 members, and that it is in line with the Constitution, it is one of the options, one of the possibilities that the parliamentary majority has chosen in the approval of the President. That's the first line. Of course, following such a line of reasoning as some people, that we have neo-KRS, neo-Criminals, neo-Criminals, we can question any constitutional body in the Republic of Poland. Because if we don't recognize the current Constitutional Court, the current National Judicial Council, etc., etc., then we are actually going into legal chaos. But, ladies and gentlemen, even you in this bill, which you propose, do not want to destroy the legal system. Because by accepting your, in my opinion, the misconception that the present KRS is neo-KRS, that is, it had no right, that is a legal defect, you do not want to throw out those judges who have stayed... this thousand I think there are probably more of them you do not want to question the judgments. And after all, there's been a few million sentences passed by these judges, right? Well, there are some things you can't undo. I totally get it. I can agree, I might disagree on who has those 15 judges to choose from. This is a matter for discussion, this is a question for a parliamentary decision. If Art. In paragraph 187. 4 says it's a bill, that's what politicians call it. Because we as politicians sit in the Seym, in the Senate, the politician is the president. So politically, politicians are shaping the bill. And the constitutional fathers, the authors of the constitution, as he called it, took the decision they made. Of course, there are dozens of interpretation discussions again, but I think I'm not from interpretation of the Constitution. With all due respect to Marshal Borowski, he is not called to interpret the Constitution either. In this respect, the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken, right? Ladies and gentlemen, you will win the election, you will make the changes, but the current KRS works, the President appoints judges, and the Constitution makes it very clear that the judges are free and indelible. That's why I was a little surprised to accept the Senate amendments, which come down to two things. The first point is that the current Supreme Court judges who work in the Disciplinary Chamber can be expelled. Constitutional rule... It's about the Disciplinar Chamber. Yes, because the structure of the court can be changed. There may be a Disciplinary Chamber, she may not be, there may be a Penalty Chamber, there may not be a Penalty Chamber, there may be another name for it. But the judges are unreserved and indeterminate. It's a constitutional record, too. He's sitting in the courtroom, as I said, two authors of this constitution, and you say, "No, these judges are gonna throw it away." Well, the situation is that if the system of the court changes, not only the Supreme Court, the judge can at most be sent to rest. And the second point, even more important or even worse, is that you say that under the law you will revoke the judgments. If it was the PiS who said he was gonna pass some kind of bill, and he was gonna revoke the court orders, I think you'd sue us at the UN Security Council. And one of the amendments to the President's bill is, right? It doesn't matter what he says. [[Timer signal]] ...Disciplinary Isby, because we're repealing it by law. [[Because she wasn't a judge. That's it.]] But it was issued by judges and even the Court of the European Union does not question the legality and validity of the choice of judges, because there is no such possibility. So much for my first statement, 'cause I'm already trying to keep up with these... Oh, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... No, I'm sorry, Borowski volunteered. I thought Marshal Borusewicz would answer as author. Why didn't you clarify that? There's a question. And that's the question to the Constitutional Authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u77	Thank you. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. I'm gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah. I signed up to explain the situation to you, because you're charging me with why we didn't write it in. [[No. Not a charge.]] In fact, I took part in the work on the constitution during my first term of office. Senator Borowski took part in this work during a few terms of office. I want to answer you. We're at a very important moment. It's about decisions about EU money. And this discussion, the previous one and this one, is related to it. You, i.e.PiS, refer to as a much wider subject than the senator. You don't talk to the opposition. That's one thing. It's such a technicality. If you thought that the opposition was Minister Ziobra's party... Well, it's some kind of opposition, but inside. But you don't talk, you don't discuss, you don't try to get out of the situation you created. I will no longer repeat the following decisions that led to such a situation, in fact to a loop situation. Mr. Senator, there is a letter of law, of course, but the constitution thus written was created with some intention, and this intention can be traced from individual records. There are materials from the Constitutional Commission, and that's what Marshal Borowski said. The intention was clear: there are representatives of the parliamentary authority, i.e. the legislative authority, as well as a group of judges. Why isn't this set out in the Constitution? Because no one thought it would be questioned. It was so obvious from the very beginning for all those who knew the intention of this provision introduced into the Constitution. But there's also a legal issue. You've changed the Uzus. You've changed. And there's no clear reason why. I mean, anyone can guess why you wanted to take over the KRS, but there's no other justification. Therefore, don't be surprised that we still have a critical attitude to this. And this bill, which is a proposal, is a proposal. also get out of this situation. This must be seen as part of the discussion and proposals on our part to get out of this situation. Not everywhere and not always in the Constitution, in very general standards, certain details can be established. The same is true, after all, of the principle that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as indicated by the Sejm, are appointed by the President and they must make a promise to the President. [[The vows.]] Yes, a vow. The record says the president's taking the vows. There's no record that he has to take a vow. And based on the fact that there's no record that he has to take the vow, the president interpreted that maybe, but he doesn't have to. But there's also legal use. In law language, it's clear. This record says that... you don't have to write that you have to accept, you just have to write that you take a vow, because that means you accept, and you don't say... you grant yourself additional powers. And that's what happened. Mr. Senator, well, the creators of the constitution didn't think that there would be a situation as it is right now, and what Law and Justice have created, that this constitution should therefore have several hundred pages that everything has to be specified. Well, we weren't expecting... Senator Borowski agrees with me that we did not anticipate a situation that had occurred. And that's all the explanation. I would now like to ask the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In short, there was no imagination, no imagination, that there would be a political group that, in short, would not interpret the laws as much as it would really devastate them. I'll start from the end, actually from the beginning. Why is the justice system being reformed? Why make decisions to change an institution, change its nature, change its calling? Well, first of all, so that, in short, citizens have easier, better, simpler, faster. What has happened as a result of the changes in the justice system in the last 6 years or almost 7 years? Well, it happened exactly the other way around. It happened that the trials are longer, that there are contested judgments that we are dealing with chaos. It is also the fact that many of our institutions are being questioned by the European institutions, because there has been a loss of credibility and a year of very serious European funds for the reconstruction programme. That's the effect. That's the effect of vandalizing justice. Only bad, from the point of view of the citizen, from the point of view of the institution, from the point of view of the whole state. That's one thing. Secondly, I will quote from one of the communications at the beginning: "The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court was considered not to be a court within the meaning of European Union law, and the current KRS is not an impartial and independent body. Who said that? European institutions, the European Parliament, the European Commission? No. Supreme Court, our Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland found that the Disciplinary Chamber was not a court and therefore the members of the Disciplinary Board did not fulfil the duties of a judge and the current KRS is not an impartial and independent body. I will remind you, there, including the explanatory memorandum, there were only a few points: the interpretation contained in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019 binds every court in Poland as well as every executive authority. What does the executive body do? For a year now, he's said he's going to eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber, but he doesn't. The TSUE has set a clear and precise standard for assessing the independence and impartiality of the court, which applies in all European Union countries, including Poland. We are a country of the European Union by the will of the nation. Each court in Poland, including the Supreme Court, is required to examine ex officio whether the standard provided for in the judgment of the TSUE is ensured in the case at hand. As we know, he wasn't. In doing so, the Supreme Court stated that the National Judicial Council in its current composition is not an impartial and independent body from the legislative authority and the executive authority. In addition, the Supreme Court found that the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court is not a court within the meaning of law. I quoted it because it's a court order. I already ignore such issues as: extraordinary composition, circumstances, very long procedure of preparation of this, analyst etc., etc. But I will also remind the government of the PiS, which, by one of the ministers of foreign affairs, invited the Venice Commission to assess the state, condition, how the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were appointed. Well, that opinion was devastating. Let me remind you that she was prepared at the invitation of the Government of Law and Justice. It was devastating. What happened to that opinion? She ended up in the trash can. I would like to stress that, as the founder of the European Judicial Council Network, the National Courts played a very important role there and we were very respected. The fact that we have been expelled from this institution is very important and very important is the advantage of the votes. Let me remind you, it was 86:6. But the key is the justification for throwing the KRS out of this respected institution. That justification was devastating again. Every country, every government in this situation would lean on this fact, the justification, and they would do something about it. We have another situation: another disregard for an important environment, an important opinion, which is also important in the current situation, because it is about European measures. Here's another thing. There were questions addressed to your marshals about further evidence of the lack of recognition of the current KRS, and in particular of its impartiality. So there were questions for a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court and the answer, quite unambiguous. There have also been, you have to remember, judgments and opinions issued by various other institutions, which I will very briefly describe as supporting. There were so many, I'm not going to replace them. It should be borne in mind that the Office of the Consultative Council of European Judges already in 2017, i.e. 5 years ago, expressed a far-reaching concern when observing reforms concerning the National Courts of Justice, it already happened 5 years ago. We must also remember the debates in the European Parliament. There, in every debate on the rule of law, the National Court of Justice appears directly. It is not enough that demands are made against the President of the Commission not to accept these milestones without also taking into account the issues of the National Court of Justice. Luxembourg explicitly stated that there is a need to debate the impartiality of the National Courts of Justice slightly differently, because this requires a detailed justification, but there was no doubt about it. It's what he's saying. . à speaking of non-constitutionality. I'm already skipping those questions I don't even want to answer. If the Sejm were to appoint judges, it would be included in the Constitution, it would be written directly there. The powers of the Sejm and the Senate concerning the appointments of politicians have been clearly separated from those of the judge who delegates 15 of his representatives to the KRS. In which way it will do so, it should be decided by the law, it should decide in which way it will be done, about the technicians, but it cannot be that the Sejm will replace the judges in the election of their representatives. Well, we're dealing with absolute impudence here, because it's hard to say otherwise. I'm gonna make one more point, because that's what I'm doing right now in the KRS. I repeatedly protest against various resolutions adopted by the National Courts of Justice. 'Cause what's the KRS concerned about? Well, she is concerned that the EU institutions are concerned about the state of the rule of law in Poland. Please note that yesterday the National Court of Justice expressed concern about the Senate's amendments, recognising that this infringes the powers of the National Court of Justice. The KRS has the right to give an opinion on legal acts, but the attempt to introduce certain amendments into the competence of the Senators is far-reaching, unacceptable, cannot be accepted. Next thing you know, it's the last thing I'm gonna talk about. The KRS must, of course, work, there is no choice. We need to remember that we have tasks that involve moving judges to rest, extending their working time, administrative decisions. But at the time we're talking about, the KRS has appointed 2,000 judges, already 2,000 judges. I do not know to what extent and to what extent the fault of certain decisions can be established. Some are unacceptable to me, some, you can say, are the result of some automatic action, above all the appointment of assesors, but in general, I can say one thing that is of the utmost concern to me. Well, the mess in the justice system is enlarged every day. The length of court proceedings shall be extended, the seriousness of the judges and the court shall be infringed, challenged by the European institutions Without a doubt expensive, extremely expensive, because these are billions of euros, they are not hundreds of millions, tens of millions, but they also needed to be leaned over, but they are billions. Pay attention to what inflation itself, while we are talking about it, 12% , 13% , means for spending, the 38 billion euros. These are over 4 billion lost only because of inflation. It must also be said that Poland is losing its competitiveness. All countries benefit from these measures, and we know that the sooner the removal of the effects of the pandemic begins in the economy, the more effective it is. We lose on almost every element and these are events in part irreversible, with devastating consequences, extremely expensive. [[Timer signal]] This is also due to the war in Ukraine, the effects of pandemics and the disastrous decisions of the government. It's too much. In short, there should be such an appeal: come to your senses, give up this boot and arrogance, because it costs us too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u79	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich, also remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for the opportunity to speak on a matter that I have been dealing with for several years. I must say that I am astonished to hear a few questions from the Senators of the PiS to the Senator of the rapporteur, together with the comments, because they are either due to the complete unawareness of what we are talking about at the moment, or they are due to bad will. I am afraid that rather from the latter, because the issue of independence of the Polish justice system and its submission to executive power in the last 6 years is a topic that comes back in our Chamber like boomerang. Please, let's remember where the independent National Judicial Council came from. It did not happen by chance, by the will of some politician, that it came from the achievements of Solidarity, that Solidarity, which decided to set up a Civil Center for Legislative Initiatives, so that by the time Poland could, when it would be a free and democratic state, it would shape the justice system to respond to European standards and, above all, the will of Poles to be independent, impartial and defend every citizen against much more powerful power than it. This was also the reason why both the Law on the Supreme Court and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Law on the National Council of Courts were prepared by this centre. It should therefore be borne in mind that the KRS, independent of political power, is an asset of.Solidarity, and all those who raise their hands to it raise their hands to the work of underground solidarity. This has been the case several times, because the amendments to the Act on the National Court Register have been examined several times. But the culmination of our dispute about independence or the dependence of the KRS was 2017. I'm just going back to remind you that that's when President Duda decided, after mass protests, to veto the Law on the Supreme Court and the KRS prepared by the PiS. It was as a result of mass demonstrations, the biggest demonstrations in Poland at that time, which gathered hundreds of thousands of people on the streets of Polish cities and which caused that in about 250 cities in Poland people went out on the street in defence of an independent judiciary and against the politicisation of the KRS, there was a veto. But then it was autumn and in autumn 2017 a law was filed by the President, which is the sin of all sins, which is the original sin on which the reform of the Polish justice system is based. I am talking about the Act on the National Judicial Council, which interrupted in an illegal manner the term of the then KRS and which, in a manner incompatible with the Constitution, allowed the majority of the Sejm to appoint an additional 15 judges, but representatives of the Sejm in the KRS. The Constitution clearly states that the Sejm has the power to appoint 4 representatives and the Senate has the power to appoint 2. The Constitution does not allow the Sejm to select another 15, therefore this was an assassination of the Constitution. At the time I said that the Polish judiciary had been blown up. Those were the consequences of the incident. And today some of the Senators of Law and Justice have the audacity to question this healing process that we have launched. After all, this project, which we are proposing, is a project introducing the Sanctification of the Polish justice system. It is not only about making it work better because it works worse but also about complying with the standards of the democratic state and the rule of law, so that every Polish citizen has the feeling that it is protected by an impartial and objective court, not a court which consists of so-called. the neo-judges who have been called in a faulty appointing process. The President appoints judges, but from among the candidates submitted to him by the National Judicial Council. Thus, each of the nominations submitted by the inadequately elected National Judicial Council is burdened with this particular legal defect. This is why both national and international bodies undermine the legality of the National Judicial Council, which is currently functioning after 2017. We have to fix this, we have to change it, because without changing the National Judicial Council everything else will be just an apparent act, everything else will be just a treatment of symptoms, not a treatment of causes. The National Judicial Council must end its term of office and, in its place, the National Judicial Council must be elected in accordance with constitutional standards, so that the Polish Constitutional Tribunal can return to the European Judicial Council Network and take its place there. After all, she was the founder of this association, after all, she guaranteed for years the independence of the courts and independence of the judges. I will refer to the 2 comments made during the discussion. I ask you, as early as 2019, in November 2019, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a clear ruling setting out precisely what standards must be met in order for the court to be considered independent. According to these standards, the Supreme Court already ruled in December 2019. This is a very important ruling that, on the one hand, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court is not a court within the meaning of European law and on the other hand, the National Court of Justice is not impartial and independent. Thus, the Polish Supreme Court clearly states in December 2019: The National Council of the Court of Justice, which has been demolished by the rulers, is not impartial and independent. And you don't need this last resolution of the Supreme Court Penalty Chamber of June 2, this year, so we know that. We remember that. We know that the National Courts are subject to political power, that the National Courts are not designated in accordance with the Constitution, that the National Courts of Justice does not comply with the standards of either the European Union or those enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. We remember that there is no international institution that wouldn't question that. Please indicate to me 1 European institution which considers that the neo-KRS operates in a manner consistent with the standards of European law. There's no such institution. I'll be done by then. This project is a project that goes back to the sources of the destruction of the Polish justice system. By adopting this project, together with the amendments to be tabled, we are undertaking the work of repairing the Polish justice system, replacing the justice system under political power with a judicial system for the return of independent and independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u81	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear here that we are as if in the course of this first item of the agenda. I am thinking here of the Supreme Court Act that we discussed last week. I would like to remind you that the High House has introduced amendments to this project, amendments tabled by both the Senators of Law and Justice and by the senators of the Senate majority. As far as we know, there will be a vote tomorrow in the Sejm on this subject. And I think that today we can assume, blindly, after the declarations of many politicians of the governing camp, that these amendments, which were not supported by the PiS during the Senate vote, will be rejected or rejected in the Sejm, while those amendments which were proposed by the Senators of Law and Justice will probably be accepted by the Sejm. There is a fundamental question that everyone is currently discussing: will this law unblock EU funds? Different arguments arise in this respect Ms Ursuli von der Leyen's statements, statements by representatives of the Polish authorities. The Polish side claims that it fills with these famous milestones. The EU party argues that if it is not fully fulfilled what was agreed, it will not be the money from the KPO. I suppose that we will be discussing money from KPOs for a long, long time, because, High Izbo, we have focused in our public debate on the rule of law and this issue in the public debate actually, since there is a KPO, actually sounds. However, the problems with approving the KPO and launching these measures show how the Polish authorities approached and to citizens and to dialogue with Brussels. I would like to remind you that the Polish authorities agreed to more than 280 other obligations relating to the payment of funds from KPOs, which are referred to as milestones, on which the European Union's payment of funds in Poland depends. So this is not just a matter of the rule of law, it is a matter of many other commitments. In public space, the focus was on the so-called. The rule of law, but above all it concerns issues such as energy transformation, transport, digitalisation, ecology, education, agriculture and health protection. And in this way, if this document, which was published on the European Commission's pages on 1 June, has almost 300 pages in English... There is also reportedly a working version of this document in Polish, published on the pages of the Polish government. This document shows that in the coming months or years it will take place in Poland, among others. Suspend any civil law contracts. This is a question that has been discussed many times and which has raised various controversy. It will be introduced, among others. the tax on combustion cars at the appropriate time. There will be an increase in registration fees for cars. How's that gonna be organized? We don't know at the moment, but that's what happens in these milestones. The Polish government has also committed itself to the introduction of expressway charges. There's a dispute going on here. Government officials say it's not exactly... that it's probably just gonna be about trucks and passenger cars, not cars, but we don't know that exactly. There's a record. How will he be interpreted? It's not an abstract future. 10 years from now, five years from now? It'll be 2024, 2025, 2026. It's been set up for years. They have committed themselves to restrict the traffic of high-carbon cars in city centers, but not on the same principle as it is so far that local governments can adopt such resolutions. This is to be mandatoryly introduced into public space. It was agreed that in cities over 100,000 inhabitants, the authorities could only buy much more expensive low- and zero-emission buses. All of this together will result in additional burdens for Poles, especially for those who are doomed to use cheap cars, due to a certain exclusion of communication, for example to get to work from smaller centres. This additional burden will, of course, translate into a standard of living. There is also the famous milestone 68, which states that Poland is committed to raising an effective retirement age. What does that mean? We don't know exactly yet, because the regulations that are now releasing from some of the retirement danins who will work longer... Such solutions are already in place, but how exactly it will be understood and how it will be implemented, we do not know that. And I would like to draw attention to one thing here. All of this was decided behind the back of Poles, because in the public debate about these issues there was no mention at all. All this was determined by Polish government officials with EU officials, and in many areas It deeply interferes in the way of life. Moreover, if there is a directive of the European Union, then later it is implemented in Poland. Then everything goes through Parliament, there's a debate on the subject, and the public can get to know it. And here we made commitments behind the back of Poles. As I understand it, the government will be working on this right now. I've heard that there's already a lot of work going on on the Windmill Act to shorten these distances, because there's a need to increase electricity production. I will remind you that in the Senate we have tried a law on this subject, but at the moment it is mandatory and the government will explain that these are the requirements of the European Union to get money. It was decided behind the back of Poles, without any consultation even with its own political background, which was said yesterday by Marek Suski, who said: "I voted behind the National Plan for Reconstruction, but not behind any annexes. No one has ever presented this kind of thing to us. End of quote. This shows that as far as the National Reconstruction Plan is concerned, no matter what the fate of the bill we will adopt in the Senate, which will probably go into the freezer in the Seym... I would like to say that I assume that the question of using the resources of the NPOs... the Union claims that all requirements must be met. It seems that once a quarter or every six months there are reviews, there is an analysis of whether these measures are consistent with... Moreover, in justified cases, it may even order the recovery of funds if it considers that they have been misused. So that this subject will live for a very long time in public space. In this speech, I wanted to draw attention to how the government treats its own citizens by taking behind their backs, but also behind the backs of Parliament. ..the parliament.. He wasn't informed about it either. That kind of commitment... [[Timer signal]] Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done here. I think it would be worth asking for information from government representatives, information about all the milestones, more than 280, so that the High House can get acquainted with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u83	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why don't we start with the story that you very skillfully introduced here, Marshal Borowski. Indeed, this started in 2015 on 10 May, the first round of the presidential elections. I would like to remind you that Mr Andrzej Duda, the current president, but also the then president, Mr Komorowski, who seemed to have no one to lose to. May 10th was the first tour, May 12th already... I think it was even May 11th that the vote came back. Turns out Andrzej Duda won with President Komorowski in the first round. And suddenly it turns out that President Komorowski may lose, he has someone to lose to. So what happened then? It was about securing political interests. On 12 May, two days after the first round of elections, a meeting was held between the two committees, the legislative committee and justice and human rights, the Parliamentary committees, and there was adopted the text of the new Constitutional Tribunal Act. And Mr Kropiwnicki put in this text I'll remind you, two days after the election, after the first round. A recipe that allows all members to be elected... Perhaps otherwise: the election of a promotion to empty seats, to the seats of members of the Constitutional Tribunal whose term ended in 2015, by the Sejm in its then composition, i.e. the governing Civic Platform. A promotion, I mean, still, still... It's about those candidates who could take office after changing their term of office after the election. What does that mean? In this way, in reasoning, we can choose e.g. candidates for the Senate for four terms forward, or at least one. It's the same philosophy. At the meeting of these committees it is protested by Mr Sharama, but, of course, it passes on the floor. And there is an act of choice, and after that act of choice we have a choice of course before the term of office, but for the previous authority, i.e. the Civic Platform, that is not in accordance with the constitution of 5 new members. The idea was to concrete the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. That was the beginning. Interestingly, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, and Vice-President Stanisław Biernat, then President and Vice-President took part in this crucial meeting. And they did not protest these openly unconstitutional laws. So much for history. As for the present time... As far as the text of the Constitution is concerned, Senator Frost clearly explained how it is and what is not in this text when it comes to issues related to the National Court Register. I'd like to take care of the text you're giving us here, in this version. Because when it comes to amendments, we do not know what they will be and whether they will be consistent with the legal situation, as they will be adopted. Issue one, and this is where the quote will defend itself. It is Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 11, not the whole, but the most important provision: resolutions on individual matters concerning appointment to serve as a judge are subject to an important legal defect. These are, of course, transitional provisions. And here are the details, the question of the devil that's in them. Because what does that mean? The fact that we're touching decisions by legislative act In this case, the resolution The judicial authority. The question is, can you do that? Well, you can, just in the former Soviet Union, in the present Russia, that's what you're after. Bierut's decree on this one is no big deal. So in this way, just by law, you can touch every judgment, every judgment, every resolution, every resolution. This is the fullness of power, uniformity, democratic centralism! That's what you're proposing. Next quote: Judge and here all types of courts are mentioned It was appointed at the request of the National Judicial Council, which consisted of members elected on the basis of... no, those in office so far cannot carry out the activities resulting from that appointment. So he just can't work. What does that mean? You're criticizing the state, and you're actually blocking it, and you're touching the president's prerogatives. And stability is the most important thing that determines independence. Of course, apart from what the judge seems to have in his heart, what he thinks, what he represents himself, what personality he has, because independence is an internal issue. So the question of the judge's indiscretion is simply introduced by the side door, by the side door. And you're supposed to be fighting for judges, aren't you? The President's prerogatives are to be at least touched here. And what will happen when you have power? 'Cause maybe that's gonna happen someday. And then tremble, generals. Because their appointment is also a prerogative... well, maybe not a prerogative, but a presidential right. Tremble, lieutenants, professors! Because they're all called or appointed by the president. Well, congratulations. From handcuff to handcuff. What else are you gonna figure out? Now the third example And here's the quote again. The term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council, of course those elected, in your view, contrary to the Constitution, expires on the day of the announcement, by announcing the results of the election of new members. I remind you, the KRS, as a body, has a four-year mandate. So a four-year mandate, a four-year term, all members of the term. And here some of the members are deprived of this privilege of cadence and are simply expelled from the National Judicial Council. In this way, if we pulled this further, any chosen group could be removed from any body which is cadence or whose cadency is defined in the Constitution. Example, please: Senators selected in Pomerania are removed. What the hell is it that the Senate term and all senators lasts four years! No, no, we're removing those Pomeranian ones! Mr. Marshal, it's the same recipe. It's about the idea of the same recipe. [[Voice from the room: No...]] The question is... Oh, that's right. Oh, no, Mr. Borusewicz, of course not. That's another thing, that's what it is. But seriously... Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to laugh about. In this way, you can destroy any institution defined in the Constitution, any authority simply, and only on the basis that you think it is. And now there's the problem. I heard from the speaker that, in your opinion, all objective opinions are on the side of the Civic Platform. And who says these opinions are objective? The Civic Platform. So, in summary, all the opinions that the Civic Platform considers objective are on the side of the Civic Platform. That's what you're explaining here, from this podium. Few of this, you do not allow the fact that one body in Poland, which states the constitutionality of the law, can derogate it or remove it from legal trading, is the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? Because it's unconstitutional. So, yeah, if you're quoting us. It doesn't favor, other judgments seem, not as much as we would like, so it's removed. No, judgments, judgments, resolutions, resolutions. We're just removing it, it's unconstitutional. Who says so? The rapporteur of the committee, with his authority, states that he is unconstitutional. Here, from this podium, an hour ago or a little earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, this way you won't get far. [[Timer signal]] But it's a good thing you guys put us through this project. You know why? People will know what you're planning in the future. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. [[Power.]] [[You're vermin.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u85	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Quiet, please. By corrigendum, I give myself the floor. Thank you, senator, for not wanting to shorten my term, that's something. But, Senator, what's the point of breaking hands? Let me remind you that you did the same thing. This was already the case with the National Judicial Council, which you have shortened your term of office. But not only did you shorten the term of office of the Supreme Court President. Then why all the crocodile tears you've shed? I understand that this is related to a brief political memory. Yeah, but you have to remember what you voted about and what you said about it, and the senator was also acting at the time, and he thought that everything was okay on these issues. Well, before that. And now you're raising these questions. Well, you've set a precedent, a bad precedent. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] No, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A few more thoughts that I didn't have time to say, but I'm also going to refer to the senator's colleagues. 'Cause it was the gentlemen themselves. From the Civic Platform. Senator Klich said that the Constitution does not allow the election of the members of the KRS by the Sejm, those 15 members. Well, Mr. Senator, if we're gonna talk about it, the constitution doesn't regulate it. And it's simple, sure, written. As for Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Because I listened to his statements as a person who worked on various drafts of the Constitution It was Mr. Marshal who raised only one argument, an argument which cannot be ignored, an argument concerning a story, that it was so historic and so accepted that those members were actually elected by the judges. Yeah, but this model was passed by law, which is this paragraph. Article 4 187, and today's majority in the Sejm also have the possibility to shape the records differently. I do not want to underestimate the fact that history or some practice matters, but practice also changes and may change, and it has nothing to do with breaking the law. I was a little amazed by Senator Zdrojewski, who criticized the KRS, the neo-KRS, but forgot one thing: he is a member of the KRS. If you're so critical of the KRS, Mr. Senator Zdrojewski, and you think it's so against the rules, and that it's not a KRS at all, it's a neo-KRS, then why are you even involved in her work? If you're saying that you're not objective, you're affected by a legal flaw and all the decisions in the community, because the KRS doesn't make a decision... Because if Mr. Zdrojewski were to make an individual decision there, I could understand because he's making an individual decision, so independent of others. No KRS makes decisions in the community. And whether you vote for whether you vote against... I'm sure that's what Mr. Zdrojewski voted in favour of many decisions and appointments. So you have to decide, Mr. Senator, right? If you think the National Court of Justice is illegal, then you don't participate in an organ that is illegal or a constitution. Yes? Yet it is possible to criticize and at the same time be in this organ. Several points have been said about the fact that various kinds of international institutions criticize... And here, unfortunately, the TSEU and the European Court of Human Rights, which is an organ of the Council of Europe and not of the European Union, have been mixed. So let us be clear that the Court of the European Union, or so-called. The TSUE never questioned the legality of the National Judicial Council, which even had to be acknowledged by the rapporteur, the Marshal who presented this draft resolution. But the Disciplinary Chamber was actually challenged. In view of the above, among others. This Disciplinary Chamber has been abolished. And in general, this blockade of funds in KPO, which is illegal, was not due to the KRS, but to the Disciplinar Chamber. Are these different kinds of international bodies questioning... Yeah, that's the only thing that's a little Phariseeish. 'Cause I've got... I forgot to take my tablet, but I'll get it out of my head. In Denmark, also in Austria, judges are appointed through sometimes not even parliament, but the Minister of Justice, e.g. in Austria, the President appoints judges And I don't think anybody's questioning that there's a democracy out there. At the request of the government. In Denmark... [[It's not about calling...]] [[Read it.]] [[Read it, read it.]] ...it's more or less similar. Yes, gentlemen. So, in general, there may be a ruling of the TSUE. Perhaps... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, Senator, I didn't interrupt you. Perhaps there will be a ruling by the TSUE which will define a framework for appointment, which will determine who can and who cannot appoint judges in the European Union. And then the rules will have to change not only in Poland, but also in different countries. In the 27 countries of the European Union, the political factor in the 8th is important in the appointment of judges and these international bodies, the judicial associations do not question this somehow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u87	Mr. Senator, thank you. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. I'd like the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, remotely, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u88	I will only partially refer to my predecessor's speech. I don't like to do that. I think listening with understanding is a very narrow specialty to the senator, because if he listened with understanding, he would know why I'm in the KRS. I told you earlier. I'll just add that for the sake of the constitution, respect for the constitution. The Constitution designates the role of 2 senators in the presence of a constitutional body. But let me stress one thing, so that there is no doubt: what raises a reservation is the way you choose to be 15 in the National Court Register. Fifteen. Not the twenty-fives, not the entire composition, not the organ as such, but the fifteen. And it's easy to say, easy to justify, easy to prove. That's the first thing. The second point is very important: the ECHR, the European Court of Human Rights, not once, but several times stated that the choice of the National Courts of Justice in this procedure was primarily due to the end of the term of office which you referred to as the Senator so wonderfully And he was waving his hands on this occasion... She was interrupted in violation of the constitution, against the rules, against the law. One last thing, Mr. Jan Growny. I am already overlooking the fact that the reservations which had been raised earlier to this proposal were that perhaps there would be a waiver or omission during the term of office. I will stress with all force: in accordance with the decisions already in force, the final term of office of the National Court of Justice should end in 2020. She was broken up by the Sejm's decision. And that's what we're talking about. One last short line. I have no intention of defending every single record in the proposed bill. Perhaps there are debatable elements, always so, especially in the big business. We have a variety of opinions that show that some records need to be worked on in a nutshell. But what we can't afford is inaction, not responding to what's happening right now. And please don't scare the future power of the opposition, because I'll remind you that when chosen, I questioned it. The Citizen's Platform withdrew too quickly from the Constitutional Tribunal and there was a ruling in this case. They're not in the Constitutional Court. Only those who were not chosen according to the law were found. They found themselves, those who were there, in short, by law should not. And let me stress one more thing: it's a constant reference to the constitution when it fits. Please recall the decisions made by Prime Minister Szydło not to publish the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal at the beginning of its rule. A clear violation of the law. A clear violation of the Constitution. You refer to the constitution when it suits you. And then when you don't like the constitution, you break it, you step on it, and you don't give a shit. I do not accept this state of affairs and ask for greater restraint in the use of the Constitution and the European institutions. Because you simply do not respect the European Union or the EU institutions or the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have no doubt that if the governing camp had a constitutional majority, it would have carried out all these changes faster, more ruthlessly and with greater consequence. These changes were extended in time only for 2 reasons. First of all, because there wasn't such a constitutional majority. And secondly, because society defended what was most important to it, i.e. independence of the justice system. It was defended in the streets of our cities, in squares, in many protests, from the first protests of the end of 2015 to the last. And that's the only reason Budapest isn't in Warsaw right now. And I hope he never will be. All the changes that were made to the Polish legal order and related to the justice system were introduced in an unconstitutional manner, starting with the submission of the Constitutional Tribunal and making it a mock-up of the tribunal enshrined in the Constitution, and ending with the National Court of Justice discussed by us or submission, an attempt to subdue the Supreme Court. I am also referring to the muzzle bill, which we have not discussed today, and which is the most scandalous example of the closure of judges by a political factor. These changes were introduced ad hoc, were made within one day and sometimes during one night. The advantage of the bill that we are discussing today is that it was very widely consulted. We have not talked about this yet today, but there have been 2 public hearings, including one organised here in the Senate and the other organised outside Warsaw by NGOs. Everyone had the right to express his opinion, everyone had the right to express his view. There were different opinions, different views collided, what to do next, but there was no doubt that this neo-KRS should be eliminated, because it is the spring of all evil. And that it should be replaced by a KRS which would be elected in accordance with the Constitution. No one had any doubts about that. It can therefore be said that this project is a little bit of a social project, because it is based on the opinion of legal circles, judicial circles, prosecutors' environments, lawyers' communities, and ordinary citizens working in NGOs focused on defending the rule of law. This is the voice of Poles. This is not the voice of a narrow political elite who wants to subdue their purposes to the justice system, but the voice of Poles. And that's the advantage. One comment on what has been said previously regarding the non-constitutionality of the changes in the appointment to the neo-KRS. If, Mr. Senator Frost, the legislator wanted the Sejm to elect 19 representatives, he would have written it down in the Constitution, but the legislator made it clear that the Sejm was choosing 4. So the 15 others were chosen in breach of the Constitution. You don't notice this because you broke the constitution, you break it and you want to continue breaking it, and now you're just dressing up as constitutional defenders, according to the Polish saying: the devil is dressed in an ornament and is calling on Mass with his tail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost reporting in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u92	I have one for Senator Klich... Either you didn't hear me or you didn't understand me. I was talking about it being written in the constitution, in my mouth. 3) that the Sejm elects 4 members, but from among Members, because this factor must also be introduced. But it's not settled who's supposed to pick those 15 judges. It's written down. The authors of the Constitution have written down: this is how we want there to be four Members. Not four judges. If it were written that the Sejm chose four judges, we certainly couldn't choose these 15. But it is written there that he chooses four of his fellow Members. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u93	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened carefully, as usual, to this debate. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll wait till it's quieter. I listened to this debate because it's interesting. It concerns one of the capital cases in the system of each State in which the Constitutional Tribunal is situated. The whole justice system You have to summon yourself in front of your eyes and tell yourself if he's good or not good. And who's the one who's been giving out these symposiums? First of all, politicians. Even judges themselves do not shy away from political statements and behaviour. Why? Because they have their political sympathies, they're the same people we are. Only that we would like the judges not to express their political opinions either by judgment or by public demonstrations, because it is contrary to the Constitution's rules, which says that they should not behave in such a way as to question their neutrality and uninterestingness. But this political subtext, elsewhere even a direct element of this political connection, is everywhere, in all democratic countries. This political determination when you talk about the system of judicial authority... that's all there is. If the constitution itself says that politicians can be delegated to the National Judicial Council, then there will also be political issues. The participation of our delegated fellow senators is, after all, fully in line with the Constitution. Why are they going there? In order to ensure that these members of the KRS also take their political vision into account in their activities. This has also been mentioned in other countries, but I would like to draw attention to two countries. Similar is the involvement of this political factor in the process of appointing the judges of these tribunals, which are not always called constitutional. We've already talked about Germany, so I'm not going to talk about it anymore. Let me remind you that everyone has read this, everyone remembers it like Trump, the President of the United States, left in 2016. It just so happened that I was there, and I could follow it closely, privately and incognito. You will remember that there was at that time 1 vacant seat in the Supreme Court of the United States of America, and that was almost the end of Trump's power. And what did his political opponents do then? They asked him not to appoint his candidate, although he could have done so in the light of the Constitution. Well, he doesn't have much left by the end of his term. They said, "Let those other people who win this election, who come after him, do it because it will be more appropriate to the will of society." We know today that President Trump was not fooled by such softening statements and quickly filled this place, thus causing the first time that I would generally say that the left-wing members of the Supreme Court in the United States were a minority compared to the conservatives. With us, this judicial dispute, which we remember from our previous term of office, is also involved in the dispute with the European Union. Because there's a dispute here, I think it's clear. There is our internal dispute between political parties and there is this external dispute between us and the institutions of the European Union, international tribunals. I think it is primarily the political opposition that wants to involve Poland in this dispute so as to have even more leverage and pressure methods. Well, eventually, some judicial decisions will be taken by us. The last word, the last sentence will refer to what has already been said. Well, maybe it's worth saying. This is the statutory regulation of the choice of judges to the National Courts of Justice. This has already been mentioned, and I very much urge you to reconsider, after a calm reading, what it means. This means that the law provides for how those who are not clearly designated as senators and Members will be selected. It's a bill that's supposed to decide that. And that's in line with the constitution. So it could be said that this is such a routine dispute. Well, if we have to build a new institution, if we're creating it again, then each political party is even required to express its position on this matter, to tell us what it's supposed to look like. So let's not be outraged, let's not worry that this is all political. Well, it's all politics. The judicial authority is one of the state authorities, so it generally takes its place in the system of political authorities. I'm not talking about judgments, I'm talking about a position, a place in the political system. I'm not gonna do a lecture on the role of the judiciary, the different structures that are there. One thing's for sure. We have to do as much as we can, as much as we can. And we all have an influence on these things. And those who rule, and those who are in opposition, can take various actions. Eventually, we're gonna set up this system, and then we're all gonna be there. I think so. I can see it optimistically. To defend this system. And the opposition, and this political group that holds power, will make sure that no one interferes in this pot of ours. We did it after long fights, discussions, not always elegant, even after speeches on the streets. Well, we're finally gonna have this justice system of ours, born in a dispute, born even, in a parliamentary fight. Then we will respect him, and we will not allow others to criticize him, for they themselves have no better and do not behave better than we do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u95	Thank you very much. And as the last senator, Marek Borowski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u96	Thank you. This dispute over what the Sejm can and can't do all the time. Senator Frost is developing his thoughts very widely here. Mr. Senator, you say he's not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer either. You say we can interpret it any way we want. Well, of course, the only difference between us is that I listen to all the legal authorities. I read the hearings, read the arguments, read the discussions. For many years, I attended meetings of the Constitutional Commission, where I listened to all the legal authorities. It's just that some things are obvious. The Sejm simply cannot give itself, its own law, any power which is not in the Constitution. Similarly, the President cannot give himself such power if the matter is specified in the Constitution. And this issue is defined. It is said that the choice of judges must be made. And the Sejm can't give itself that right unless it says the Sejm chooses. That's the opinion of all the lawyers. I don't know what kind of lawyer would say anything else. That's point one. Point two. You refer to the law, which says that the law defines, among other things, the law. the method of choice. It's a secondary recipe. He talks about the choice in the sense that if judges are to choose their candidates, then there must be a specific way of choosing, e.g. through a judicial assembly, through delegates or directly. It could look different. And in the project we're discussing today, that's how it's defined. It is said how many elected regional courts, district courts, etc., etc. are to be chosen. That means the word "way." As for the National Judicial Council, which was elected in 2016... probably in 2017, right? Well, apart from everything, except that this law has been violated, all the tribunals, courts, lawyers, committees, etc. pay attention to what was the mode of this choice. Assuming the Sejm chooses... What did it look like? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember what it looked like. These were candidates who had 25, 28, 30 signatures each, mainly the signatures of the judges who worked in the Ministry of Justice on a delegation, as well as the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the courts who had been appointed to these posts a moment earlier by Minister Ziobra. I have a ledger here. I'll give you some examples. Judge Dariusz Drajewicz had 25 signatures, exactly what it took, of which 92% They gave him judges posted to the Ministry of Justice, promoted by Minister Ziobra to a higher court and presidents or vice-presidents whom the Minister promoted. [[The voice from the hall: they signed it themselves.]] No, it's not Drajewicz, it's Judge Nawatsky. [[Voice from the room: Nawatski.]] Judge Nawatski signed it himself, and his wife signed it for him. In the end, it turned out that four people withdrew their signatures, so he didn't have 25 signatures. And such... [[Voice from the room: Not yet...]] Okay, Mr. Senator, but don't you see the farce of choosing for the National Judicial Council? This choice should be impeccable, should have some appreciation, some respect. And this was where the usual wimps were made. In this way, this National Judicial Council was chosen. That's what all of these organs are paying attention to, saying that's what counts. Now what? Mr. Senator, what do we see now? The European Court of Human Rights speaks incorrectly, the Venice Commission speaks incorrectly, all the living Presidents of our Constitutional Court speak incorrectly, the spokespersons of civil rights speak incorrectly, our Supreme Court speaks incorrectly, and not in one judgment. [[Timer signal]] The Court of Justice has defined the conditions to be met in order to consider such an authority to be independent, independent. And he said, "Let the national court judge these terms." The Supreme Court assessed them and concluded that the conditions were not met. All of these authorities say "no," all authorities say "no," and Senator Frost goes out and says "and I have a different approach." You have the right, of course, to have a different approach, just a little humility, for God's sake. The proposal we're making right now is a proposal that doesn't offend anyone. She's just gonna make the judges pick their candidates. Okay, here's the In the general election, so without any layouts, deals, etc. And I think you should do it creatively. And finally, Mr. Marshal, I'll say yes. There was a problem here that at the moment there is a law on the Supreme Court with our amendments, so it can wait and so on. I see the matter simply: either our amendments will be rejected and this bill is as far as possible on the spot, it should go to the Sejm, or they will be accepted and somewhere there will be a collision, the High Sejm will want to review our bill and then improve it, there is no problem. So there's nothing to wait for. I therefore request that the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Committee deal with these amendments because they are tabled at this meeting so that we can vote on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Frost, correct mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u98	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I must refer to Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement. Mr. Marshal, this is not my will, because how many lawyers were in favour of this option, that it is in line with the Constitution, voted with the Constitutional Tribunal at the head. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u99	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Halina Poor with a group of senators and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Borowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a recess until 3:20 p.m. [[Voice from the room: Still messages.]] Excuse me, one more announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u100	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Judicial Affairs and certain other laws will take place in room 176 15 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment, i.e. around 2 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 48 to 15 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u101	Please take your seats. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I resume this session, And I'm reinstating it right now. I'm gonna ask you to accept a small change in order. Well, maybe we won't break the rules, but we'll be a little flexible on diplomatic protocol. Well, in the Senate's custom, among others. Farewell to the ambassadors ending their mission in Poland. It's done in the marshal's salons, it's got a celebration and a routine. But today we bid farewell to the successful ambassador, the outstanding representative of the heroic Ukrainian nation, the Excellency of Andrij Deszyca, who completed his mission in Poland. That is why I have decided to ask you to say goodbye to him in the Senate plenary. I'll ask your ambassador for an approach. We want to present the commemorative medal of the Senate for its merits for building Ukrainian-Polish fraternity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u102	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the Senators, For me it is a great honor and honour to address you today with words of thanks, thanks for supporting the Ukrainian people and for supporting Ukraine. We live in difficult times because Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a challenge for us, for you and for the whole free world. But thanks to our joint efforts, thanks to your decisions, thanks to the support of the Senate, the support of the Polish government, the support of President Duda, but above all thanks to the support of the Polish people, we managed to stop this invasion. We were able to liberate Kiev, and I believe that soon we will liberate our entire country and win this war. We'll win with you! [[Applause]] And it will be our great victory together. I believe in this and believe in the further development of good Ukrainian-Polish relations. I was an ambassador of Ukraine in Poland. For me it is a great honor that I represented the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people and the President of Ukraine. I defended Ukraine's interests, and now I am leaving Poland and will be a advocate of cooperation and Ukrainian-Polish friendship. This is my new assignment. [[Applause]] Thank you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u103	Dear Senators! We've resumed our deliberations. I would like to remind you that today, after this sitting and the 10th 15-minute technical break, the next 40th session of the Senate will begin. I therefore ask your senators not to log in from the system. I have a proposal that senator's statements, if the High House accepts it, should be made in concert at the end of the forty-fourth sitting, not twice. If I do not hear the voices of the opposition, I will accept that the High House has accepted such a proposal. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 50 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws together with a summary of all the proposals. The Senate held its 40th meeting on 1 and 8 June 2022 after second reading, in accordance with Article. 81. 3 and 4 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, he sent the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The joint meetings of the Commission on 8 June 2022 responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. The committees supported the conclusions set out in the second paragraph in the paragraphs from the first to the sixteenth table of proposals and asked for them to be adopted by the Senate together with a uniform draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 50 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. I will remind you that the senators of the applicant or the other senators submitted legislative proposals and that they were: Bosacki, Rybicki, Borusewicz, Kwiatkowski, Czarnobaj, Grodzki, Borowski, Morawska-Stanecka, Kochan, Hibner, Ziemiak, Klich, Chybicka, Małecka-Libera, Matecka, Nebula, Gorgon-Komor, Potij, Gawłowski, Frankiewicz, Plura, Kleina, Bieda, Kamiński, Czerwiński. Do the senators of the applicant or the other senators still want to speak? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, that's what I'm asking.]] [[Voice from the room: I...]] [[Then maybe Senator Czerwinski, because I have a formal motion.]] Mr. Marshal Pęk, then Senator Czerwiński, then Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, the situation with this law, or actually with the final part of the process, requires a certain comment, because this is a situation that I do not remember from my senator's work. That is, at the last simple, at the end of the second reading, 26 pages of amendments were tabled to the minutes, the name of the law, the whole of its subject matter, was changed. Well, we're actually dealing with a completely new law, with a law that could be titled: "To be in the judiciary as it was before the 2015 elections." And this is a mix-up with the confusion of the whole matter, very detailed, concerning the Supreme Court, the Disciplinary Chamber, the system of the courts, and the proper matter of the KRS. I still hear in the Senate complaining and regretting about how the Law is being applied in the Seym, I still hear about the superiority of the Senate over the Seym, about the Chamber of reflection, reflection and special prestige. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, once again, you are adding a very important milestone to this to depreciate the authority of the Senate. The Senators of Law and Justice do not agree to this. We will vote against this bill. And we will always object to such proceedings in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u107	I hope that the Marshal appreciates that I gave him a courtesy vote, because the question was: Do the senators of the applicant or the other senators of the rapporteur want to take the floor yet? But there's Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to draw your attention to two things. Shortly, we will not abuse your patience. One is that the amendments were actually discussed at the committee meeting in less than 15 minutes, and as has been said, they represent most of the material of this law. What you are proposing in the project is smaller than the amendments we have considered. It took almost two years to work there... [[And here's 15 minutes.]] ...and here 15 minutes. Secondly, we may not avoid errors connected with the fact that in the meantime other laws have also been amended in comparison with what was at the beginning, that is, when entering the legislative procedure. And most importantly, we do not know which amendments to the law which deals with the same matter, i.e. the law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, will be passed by the Sejm, because the vote will not be until tomorrow. So we are voting, actually being on a boggy ground, without having a clear legal position, this target. This is what we really do with these amendments. I appeal to you... This is the first time I've ever done this because this is the first time I've ever met with this procedure. If you really want to vote it out, of course we can vote it out, but you will mention my words: this bill, or actually this amendment will require a supernovalization before... well, maybe not before referral to the Sejm, but during the work of the Sejm. Once again, it's a shame for us to lose the last of our good name. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. The conclusion... Now, Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u110	Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal. Well, I was gonna file a formal motion and I'm gonna do it right now, but I'm also the only one who's signed under these proposals, and I have the right to speak now. So after these two statements, I want to explain. Because they could mislead all those who listen to us, that these amendments were precisely due to the fact that the Supreme Court Act was adopted by the Senate a few days ago, and everything was very precise at the committee meeting. The Legislative Office explained everything precisely, there are no contradictions and no problems with the fact that the Supreme Court Act, which is in the Seym, can be amended e.g. as a result of the adoption of some or all of the amendments of the Senate. It's just that there's no problem. Now, about the formal application... The first proposal is a proposal to reject the project. If he had not obtained the majority and we would have voted on the amendments, I would have tabled a proposal to vote on these amendments together. I would like to say that at the committee meeting they were put to the vote together, without opposition by any of the senators. So if there were no objection now, we would have shortened this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u111	Thank you very much. If I don't hear any objections, this is how I'm going to vote. I understand there are no votes against. I'd just like to comment briefly on those 15 minutes. Mr. Senator, let me remind you that the work of the Senate is done both in committees and in plenary, and it lasts practically all the time. At this point, I would like to thank the entire Legislative Office, and in particular Director Konieczko, who has done a long, titanic work on the drafting of this bill so that it meets the requirements of high quality legislation. [[Applause]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? [[Voice from the room: There are no volunteers.]] I don't see... [[Voice from the room: No, it's...]] Oh, Senator Jackowski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u112	I have the following question for your Marshal Stanecka. Has it happened in recent months, especially in the Sejm, that even 700-page laws were being processed, and the Sejm had two hours or four hours... I'm thinking about the Polish Lad here... [[I don't think Mrs. Marshal knows because she's...]] But that's what I'm asking. I can ask you a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Does your experience show that this kind of practice in parliament in this parliamentary term of the Sejm and the Senate... no, the Senate didn't, the Sejm, have happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u113	Please, briefly, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u114	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, Yes, and in substance. The draft of this law had so many amendments, because here was the information, the regulations that concern the Disciplinary Chamber, which we eliminated with the presidential project, which was being processed last week. All these provisions and references therefore had to be removed from this draft law. Yes, there were such substantive projects as: connected with the Polish Ład, which were in the night hours in parliament examined and had several hundred pages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u115	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the... [[Voice from the room: Senator Frost.]] Senator Frost. There you go. [[Voice from the room: No, not anymore...]] [[Voice from the room: You can't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u116	I can, I can. Please read the rules. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Constitution!]] [[Mr. Senator, to the so-called ad remu.]] Ad rem. I have a question for the rapporteur. Madam rapporteur, please tell the High House how many senators of the Legislative Commission have been given time to read 26 pages of this document? I was counting... 22 seconds. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u117	You said to yourself...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-43-2.u118	That's exactly what you asked that question. And even 18 seconds... We proceed with the vote on Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 46 for, 53 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] We therefore proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. As requested by Senator Borowski, we will vote together. Amendments 1 and 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the National Council of the Court of Justice, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized you to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. According to the statement of the senators outside the agenda, they will be held collectively for two sittings at the end of the 40th Senate meeting. The 40th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed... I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th meeting will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 40th session is adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to inform you that another 40th Senate meeting will begin in 15 minutes. [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 52]]
