ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Members Paulina Matysiak, Aleksandra Szcudło, Konrad Frysztak and Daniel Milewski to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Alexander Szczudło and Daniel Milewski. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Alexander Szczudko and Konrad Frysztak. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u2	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Culture and Media - hour 9, - Health-- hour. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 10, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14.15. A joint meeting of the Parliamentary Team for the Development of Electromobility and Prosumer Energy will also be held today and the Parliamentary Group for the Development of Electromobility and Prosumer Energy. Energy and Energy and Mining Transformation in Poland - hour 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Okay, let's get to the first question. There's been a change of order. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep along with numerous other Members: Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Mr Władysław Bartoszewski, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Mr Bożena Żalewska, Mr Mark Biernacki, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Mr Jan Łopata, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Mr Mark Sawicki, Mr Paweł Beąd and Mr Czesław Siekierski. Please ask the first question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2 minutes, which is why very quickly - arguments in favour of keeping the Vengeance Council in the municipality of Będzina, because today we are talking about this. 96,5% The inhabitants of this village were in favour of leaving Będzino in the municipality. There's almost 2,000 people living there. inhabitants, which accounts for as much as 20% of the population of the entire municipality. The 244 registered business activities in the municipality 133 are located there, i.e. 55% all economic activities are one commonwealth. Avengers are a separate settlement unit separated from Koszalin by a 4-kilometer forest and in no way connected with the city of Koszaline. Farmers and one of the leading breeding centres in Poland after being integrated into the administrative boundaries of Koszalin will lose their ability to use the RDP - the designation line will not allow them to use the Rural Development Programme. What did the farmers do to punish them so? Nothing. The avengers are fully analyzed, gasified, mostly with built roads of the village, the only crèche in the commune, the kindergarten attended by 138 children, the primary school in which 274 pupils learn, the Orlikz, the sports hall and the folk house, which many municipalities can envie to the Avengers. Importantly, there are many children from other towns in the municipality of Będzin, who have to Mścic close, but also these units were built by the efforts of the entire community to serve this community. Last year, the budget of the municipality of Będzino amounted to PLN 7.5 million, including PLN 1200 thousand from the village of Mścice. - 16.1%. Dear Minister, A few years earlier, under the government of the PO, Jamno and the Elbe were incorporated into the city of Koszalina. Do you think they have heated pavements today? Today, if people want to build there, they have to continue to build drainless tanks. Nothing's changed, Minister. And I hope that (the bell) this experience will cause that we will not. I hope, Minister, that you will not be Mścic's taker today, and later also Będzino's gravedigger, because this commune simply can't do without Mścic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u5	Thank you very much. Now please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the territorial division of the state of the municipality, including those relating to changes in the boundaries of municipalities, shall be made by means of a regulation of the Council of Ministers, on the basis of the provisions of the Municipal Government Act and taking into account the rules and procedures laid down in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the procedure for the submission of applications for the creation, merger, division, abolition and establishment of the borders of municipalities, the granting of the status of a municipality or a locality, the establishment and amendment of the names of the municipalities and their local authorities and the documents required in these matters. According to the WW. the provisions of the applicant on changes in territorial division of the State at municipal level may be of interest to the municipality council. According to Art. 4b. 1 of the Municipal Government Act should be preceded by consultations with residents, supported by supporting documents, maps and information confirming the validity of the application by the Council concerned. This provision also requires the opinion of the municipal councils covered by the application preceded by consultations with residents carried out by these councils, and in the event of a change in the boundaries of the commune that violates the borders of powiats or voivodships - the opinion of the relevant councils of powiats or seymics of voivodships. The Municipality Council shall make a request to the Minister responsible for public administration, through the relevant voivodeship, by 31 March. In accordance with the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the procedure no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the request, the governor shall forward it, together with his opinion, to the minister responsible for public administration. The Council of Ministers shall examine the proposals no later than 31 July. The changes take place on 1 January. I would like to point out that the proposal that you have been talking about is not proceded out of office by the Council of Ministers, nor is it at the request of the Council of Ministers. This is a proposal made by the city of Koszalin and concerns the integration into the area of the city of Koszalin of three villages. It is currently being analysed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The issues that the Member has also referred to are also being examined. The Council of Ministers will decide on all these issues. Let me remind you that this is not the only conclusion. There are more requests on the national scale. Usually by 31 July, according to the deadline which is in the Regulation, these decisions shall be taken. I think it's gonna be this year, too. A meeting of the Joint Government and Government Panel is already planned, which will evaluate this proposal in accordance with the rules. And this decision will be taken in accordance with the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, I didn't get the answer - or at least it was very enigmatic - but I hope, Minister, that the Avengers will remain in the municipality of Będzin. Then I'll ask you about the haysands and the lazys. Minister! That's another conclusion. Another conclusion, because the municipality invented that it wanted access to the sea - access to the sea at the expense of the municipality of Mielno. People said no, the voivode, though ambiguously, too. People just don't want it, Minister. It's worth respecting these people and what they say. The Councils of the municipalities both in Będzin and in Mielno have said decisively too. You said yesterday on Radio Koszalin that there was nothing without them and that you had to listen. And I hope, Minister, that you will finally meet them because they ask you, both Avengers and Mielno. You don't want to see them. I see you want this procedure to go quietly after all. Today I am asking for the Avenger and Lazy, in other matters it has been agreed (the Bell), I have nothing to do with it. This, on the other hand, could be a really big problem for these towns. That's why, Minister, Lazy in Mielno, Vengeance in Będzin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u9	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is again responsible for Mr Paweł Chezernaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would ask you not to mislead the public. First of all, the inhabitants of the municipality of Mielno, because you also took this thread here... We've talked about this many times in my parliamentary office, because there's a group of people who want to, ask, submit a request, sign, so that... [[Who saw this? No one's seen it.]] This motion is being processed... Mr. Speaker! Just because you didn't see it doesn't mean nobody saw it. That's one thing. Secondly, consultations were held on this issue, this request was examined by the municipality of Sianów at the request of residents and some of the entrepreneurs. Third, please don't tell me I don't want to meet because I've arranged a meeting with Mayor Mielna, who she hasn't come to. So please don't mislead the public. Fourthly, there are further meetings with residents which, I think, will allow the Council of Ministers to adopt an opinion which will be acceptable. Don't mislead the public. [[I'm not.]] I understand that you just felt that there was an opportunity here to ask a question, a little spin. There are procedures... [[This isn't my constituency.]] Well, if this isn't your constituency, then I don't think you have the kind of knowledge that would allow you to have a broad look. [[But you are a messenger from that land.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u11	Don't discuss it. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: So I'm telling you, if you do. Mayor Mielna cares, I invited her to a meeting, and I wanted to talk about it, but she refused to meet me. For all those concerned, I will try to make time available as far as possible. Please, sir, it's really not worth lying about here. Please believe that all arguments will be taken into account. Please also take into account, Mr... I hope that you are in favour of the Central Pomerania being a strong place on the map of Poland and for Koszalin to be a city that will develop, will attract and be a strong point on the map of Poland, not a city that just curls up. [[Make sure he doesn't loosen up.]] So I think that these arguments must also be taken into account in a situation where big cities all over the world need investment areas and develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Grzegorz Lorek, Krzysztof Kozik, Barbara Bartus, Mariusz Trepka and Marek Polak address the question to the Minister of Finance. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek and Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u12	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Polish GDP in the first quarter of 2022 grew year by 8.5%, 2.4% quarterly, according to the so-called. a quick respect for the Central Statistical Office. It's better than expectations. During the conference with the President of the European Commission, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said: Poland has already started implementing the KPO, because we cannot wait after the pandemic with such important investments. Minister! Are the current Polish Government decisions relevant to the economic growth of our country? If so, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u13	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I welcomed the information that already in the third quarter of the Ub. We reached pre-pandemic GDP levels in autumn 2019. But I am astonished to read the results of Eurostat, which show that countries such as Italy, Germany and Spain have not yet reached pre-pandemic levels. I would like to ask what follows from the fact that the euro area countries are so far behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u14	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Piotr Patkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the impact of the Strategic Investment Fund, the Polish Government Fund on GDP growth, two editions have been held so far, two editions have been decided on and the edition related to the support fund for municipalities in which the PGRs were located. At the same time there is, and soon will be announced, another fund related to municipalities in which PGRs were present. We can estimate initially the impact of this programme on GDP, taking into account the following methodology, i.e. taking into account how GDP would evolve if these measures were not included in local government budgets and not spent on investment. Looking at this in detail, it is worth noting that the main investments of local authorities will be in 2023 and in subsequent years, taking into account the period which is needed for local authorities from the award of promes and the award of competitions to the start of regular work and therefore payments which will also have an impact on the economy. To translate this into concrete figures, in 2022 this impact is estimated at about 0.1 percentage points, while in 2023 it is 0.5 percentage points, i.e. approximately 1/6 or 1/5 of an additional contribution to GDP, taking into account the situation in which this programme would not have taken place. So in 2023 this additional impact on GDP could be up to 1/5 of GDP. Please also take into account that the estimates take into account those two calls that have been decided and the recruitment of the PGR, while we do not yet take into account any further calls that may be announced and will probably be announced and resolved. However, at this moment, it is difficult to duplicate this respect, without having the exact amounts that go to local governments yet. However, given that these two calls, i.e. just as I have already mentioned, about 1/6 or 1/5 of the additional contribution to GDP in relation to the scenario in which this programme would not have been available can be considered as a further component of GDP by means of a multiplier effect. It is also worth noting that this will affect GDP in a very important aspect of GDP, namely the growth of investment rates in relation to GDP. As with GDP alone, investments will be subdued by 0.1 percentage points in 2022, which is important, in 2023 and in the following years it will be up to 0.5 percentage points in addition to investments, which is important, of investments carried out by local governments. So these orders will mainly go to small or medium-sized Polish companies. It is also worth noting that the quality structure of these investments will mainly focus not on big cities, not on metropolises and will not be implemented by the largest companies, but by small Polish micro-enterprises, which makes this GDP growth double-quality. Firstly, it will increase the rate of investment, and secondly, it will be implemented by micro- and small enterprises or medium-sized enterprises with Polish capital. As far as the GDP of other Member States is concerned, as the Member has rightly pointed out here, Poland has actually reached a GDP rate higher than it was before the COVID. Many countries, especially Western Europe, have not yet achieved this. This is due to many reasons, among others. that in Poland this decline in GDP in 2020 was relatively low in relation to countries such as France and Belgium, but Poland also applied a very active response to the economic situation related to the crisis, with COVID, among others. a very strong policy that drives and stimulates investment and active social policies, thanks to which we have defended jobs and we have one of the three lowest levels of unemployment in the European Union, but we also have one of the more proactive economic policies supported by public funds, making this growth GDP is indeed one of the highest in the European Union, at the same time with one of the lower deficits for 2021, namely the sixth lowest deficit at European Union level. So we've combined an active economic policy with sustainable public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u16	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u17	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, This is an additional question, however, I will begin by thanking you. Since thanks for the fact that this money is spent on Polish Loads, that the Ministry is in this position, that this money goes into investments, into investments in regions such as mine, far from centres, centres of large cities, that this sustainable development is realized by this, that investments are carried out in my Gorlice district, in the Sądecczyn, in places where previously local governments could not dream of such money at all. Minister! Question. We have said that these investments contribute to GDP growth, but are there also analyses being made that if these investments were not there, how would they have to increase the social policy effort (the bell) because people would be out of work. One more thing. The inflation analysis, because if there is a supply, if there is so much investment to be made, there is money, and prices go up for these investments. What does this have to do with inflation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, once again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the question of possible impact on inflation of the Polish Load program - here actually this effect should be negligible. Note that these funds are mainly allocated to investment programmes, which also strengthen the productivity of the economy, and in the longer term, but not only in the longer term, because in the medium term the higher dynamics of investment, as I mentioned, is up to 0.5 percentage points in 2023 of the additional generated impact and economic growth, will primarily increase the supply capacity of the economy and reduce unit labour costs, which should also reduce pressure on price increases. So let's pay attention. on what I also talked about in the first part of the speech, on this qualitative, very qualitative impact of the Polish Load programme on the level of investment. As far as the impact on municipalities and local authorities is concerned, let us note that they often come - but not only, because practically every municipality, whether small or largest metropolitan area has submitted a valid application, has received these funds - note that they have a special value precisely in those municipalities which, due to often very low current income, do not have this opportunity to generate financial space to stimulate investment. So while this is often an additional space for further investments in medium-sized and larger towns, in the smallest towns it is the only chance that individual investments can be realised, and therefore it is also the only chance that companies located in these areas can carry out investment projects in this area. It is quite difficult to estimate what is the scale of such municipalities and what is the exact level, but it can be said that in the vast majority of rural communities it is a programme that not only extends the basis of potential investments made by them, but, above all, gives often the first chance that investments that have been only planned so far can actually take place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. It is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and is requested by Members of the Sławomir Nitras, Cezary Tomczyk and a group of Members of the Civic Coalition. First, Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u21	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Minister... I'm sorry. I didn't see you. Minister! The case is extremely serious. As we know, next week, the NATO summit in Madrid will be held next Tuesday and two of the most important issues will be addressed, namely the presence, increased presence of NATO troops on the eastern NATO flank and the construction of a new strategic alliance concept in which, I understand, the eastern NATO flank is to be the most important issue, i.e. the most serious challenge. I think that there should be no dispute in this matter in Poland, i.e. from left to right in Poland, everyone should support the government's action in Madrid in this matter, and it would be good for there to be no doubt about what the government's intentions are. It would be good if these issues did not raise any doubts in Poland. And I would like you to answer my question very precisely, Minister, rather than talking about strategy in general. I am invoking the speech of your colleague, Minister Jablonski, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, from 5 June of the Republic of Poland. When asked by a journalist, this is a quote, whether the NATO Summit at the end of June should decide on the deployment of American nuclear weapons on the eastern flank in Poland, Minister Jabłoński answers: It is definitely worth talking about. Russia has the means of mass destruction available to its armed forces, and there is no reason why the countries most at risk of such a scenario do not have symmetrical measures. My question, Minister, is, what are you going to Madrid with? Is there any idea he was born in government, for the presence of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons in Poland? Is this a position discussed with someone? Were there consultations with the public, the parliament, the President, the National Security Council on this matter? These are extremely important issues. In order for us to be able to support you honestly, without prejudging what is the strategy (the bell) because there has been no discussion on this matter, we need to know very precisely what you are going to do about it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u22	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Marcin Przydacz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This will indeed be a very important summit in Madrid. After February 24, we all woke up in a new reality. This will be the first formal NATO-Wski Summit, which should take concrete decisions on the adaptation of the Alliance to the situation that happened in Ukraine. You are right, Mr President, pointing out that the main outcome of the summit will be the adoption of a new strategic concept. It has not been amended since 2010. I would like to remind you that Russia appears, in fact, to be a potential partner in this document, and terrorism was pointed out as a major threat at the time. Today we are living in a completely different situation and changing this document, adapting it to the current challenges is absolutely crucial here. And this is what we are talking about today, and this is also what Polish diplomacy is doing today. The strategic concept will be a public document showing the main directions for NATO's development over the next few years. For us, it is a priority for the new concept to reflect the diametric change in the security of the Euro-Atlantic region as a result of Russia's full-scale aggression. We seek to adequately describe Russia's threat and how the Alliance responds to its actions. We draw attention to the role played by Belarus in Russia's policies and activities. We expect, and this is a partial answer to your question, that collective defence will be indicated in the concept as an absolutely crucial task of the Alliance. It will therefore be necessary to strengthen NATO's deterrent and defence activities in the long term, including in particular the Eastern Alliance. At the same time, we are trying to achieve a realistic approach to NATO's possible future contacts with Russia. The new strategic concept will also refer for the first time to the challenges facing China. However, it is important for Poland that the Chinese problem does not dominate NATO's actions over the biggest and immediate threat to the Euro-Atlantic area, Russia. The second element, equally important, on the strategic concept, will be the package of specific decisions on long-term reinforcement, deterrent and defence. This document will be secretive, but I can assure you that our actions aim primarily at strengthening the presence of an ally here, on the eastern NATO flank, as a framework state, of course mostly American, the presence of eFP after 2016, after the summit in Warsaw. As far as weapons of mass destruction are concerned, these are allies, of course, but they are also decisions made in bilateral channels, in American talks. It is right that you, quoting my colleague, pointed out that it is worth discussing how the Alliance should respond to potential threats. At this stage, when it comes to the NATO summit in Madrid, I do not anticipate decisions which would fundamentally alter the US presence in Poland, to be perfectly clear about the presence of tactical nuclear units. However, what is crucial for us, and I will stress this, is strengthening the presence of an ally, strengthening the presence of the American on the eastern front of NATO, not only in Poland, but also in the Baltic States, those that are most at risk, also in the countries in the south of the eastern flank. This is an absolute priority for us. The third important element at this summit, Mr Zelenski, will, of course, be the presence of President Zelenski and the emphasis on the need to support Ukraine. This support is primarily implemented in bilateral contacts. NATO, of course, has the potential to coordinate these activities, but the very presence of President Złenski and the expression of needs on his part is very large, also symbolic, important. In addition, of course, we will discuss the support of our other partners, Georgia, Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will talk about whether the President representing Poland will also talk to countries like-minded so-called. the free world - i.e. representatives of Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Korea - about global challenges already. There will, of course, also be a discussion on NATO enlargement. We are all well aware that Finland and Sweden have declared their willingness and willingness to enter the North Atlantic Alliance. This discussion will continue, and we hope that it will come to an end in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u24	Thank you, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For the first time, quite important words came from this speaker, because a government representative answers the question, in fact, as to whether the government is seeking to have weapons of mass destruction in Poland. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs says it's worth talking about. So I would like to ask if it would be worth talking to Poles first, because I think that such a discussion in Poland did not take place, and in this case it is very necessary. You're saying today that at some point that maybe... I mean, anyone who's listening to us tonight can clearly feel like you're just being turned on. I'd like to know what the government's position is. Is the government seeking to have weapons of mass destruction in Poland, because such a position must be agreed not only with the High Chamber, but above all with Poles. We have different doubts and very limited confidence in the state. We know you guys couldn't handle the ventilators. And you want to tell us today that you can handle a nuclear weapon? We have some reservations and the whole of Poland should have these reservations. If I may just remind you, Mr. Marshal, two sentences, let me remind you that the president, for example. Nitro-Chemu, the largest company in NATO that produces TNT, became an aquariumist. As we read, his shop with palettes and clowns was called Idolekż. It was the man who led this factory to the brink of bankruptcy. NATO's largest TNT factory. So all the questions that come down here have a profound reason for what we've been through in your day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u26	Thank you. Mr Marcin Przydcz again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u27	Thank you very much. I was hoping for a serious discussion, as Mr Nitras suggested. Unfortunately, the hopes proved to be burning. As far as the American presence is concerned, sir, I do not know whether your political option has any mandate to discuss presence, fear. It is 2016, the summit in Warsaw, the procedures of President Duda and the Government of Law and Justice led to NATO-Polish presence. Something that had failed for several years became a fact after 2016. Thousands of allies arrived in Poland. Today we are much safer, having a war - indeed beyond the borders of our country - through the presence of an ally American, also expanded during President Duda's contacts with President Trump. Today, President Biden and I are discussing increasing this presence within the framework of the conventional forces, within the framework of the repulsion policy. The fact that NATO has nuclear resources is not a secret. This protective umbrella of allies may not necessarily be implemented, sir, by presence in the territory concerned. It is clear that our opponent, and this in the strategic concept will be indicated, is Russia. Russia, which also owns weapons of mass destruction. I don't think it's any wonder that our allies and I are talking about different scenarios. And what I'm saying is it's worth talking about how Russia can potentially behave in the future and how the Alliance will react. Don't make jokes about it, because it's an extremely important and sensitive matter. The presence of an ally will naturally strengthen our defence. And it is worth talking to you about this subject so that we can really understand each other. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a correction? Two sentences.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u28	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. [[Mr. Marshal, only with a correction. Two sentences.]] There's no such... [[But two sentences because I was mentioned. You're welcome.]] You're welcome, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for this opportunity. Minister! I would just like to remind you that the history of the Republic of Poland did not begin in 2015 and the American soldiers had been here before. They were for Minister Klich, for the previous president. So I want us all to realize that our governments, what's going on in our country, is a relay. It was all political forces - and it was the great merit of the entire political class - that the US troops and NATO-Wskie troops were in Poland. And this has already worked out for the previous governments, not the PiS government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: September 17th, you were withdrawn from your reign...]] [[But it's true.]] [[Voice from the room: September 17th.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u30	Thank you very much, thank you. The next question, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, is asked by MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Robert Obaz, Monika Falej and a large group of Members of the Left. First, Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The question we wanted to ask today is what will happen to local governments after 1 July 2022. The Polish Load and its solutions are good for each of us, especially for the least earners. With this inflation, which is, every dollar more in the wallet of Poles is an important thing. But at the same time a reduction in tax from 17% to 5% will result in 1/3 less money being paid to local governments in relation to what would affect them. Today, local governments face huge challenges. Services, especially with regard to public services, transport organisation, education - all these things cost a great deal. At the last meeting of the committee we heard that the government does not finance education, but grants subsidies, and the rest must be done by the local government. Similar subsidies are announced for investment, but this is just an addition. So the question is, how does the government intend to compensate local governments for tax losses? Today local governments probably have revenue, tax revenue at 2021 level, but inflation and what happened to investments, with prices - with energy, gas or fuel prices - caused this loss in budgets to be about 30%. Therefore, the question: What mechanism will the government use, so that all - I stress: all - local governments have received the same funding as before (The Bell) and have conditions similar to those of earlier years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u32	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Sebastian Skuza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u33	Dear Marshal, High Seym! First of all, I would like to start with the financial results for 2021. For local government units, these results were exceptionally good, they were the best data in terms of the history of local government units. Local government units recorded an excess of 17 400 million and an operating surplus of 36 600 million. These were historically the best results of the budgets of local government units. [[Applause]] Also in the first quarter of this year the budgets of local government units closed with a surplus of PLN 15 700 million, about 1 billion more than in the same period of the previous year, and a current surplus of 16 200 million, about 2 billion more than in the same period of the previous year. Importantly, the debt of local government units is falling and at the end of the first quarter it amounted to less than PLN 89 billion compared to over 91 billion at the end of 2021. I return to the basic question, which is what will happen after 1 July 2022. Local government units now receive equal shares in income taxes every month and will also be after 1 July, i.e. this year local government units regardless of statutory changes each month by the end of the year will have the same income tax and corporation tax receipts. As regards the addition of personal income tax losses already in 2021, a mechanism was introduced to protect local government units against loss of those losses, namely the concept of a reference amount of nominally valued GDP and to that reference amount of CIT and PIT. If this reference amount turns out to be higher than what results from the budgetary projections, the State budget will have to find an appropriate proportion of the general subsidy, i.e. the development subsidy that local government units will receive on the basis of an algorithm based mainly on the population. Such an algorithm will work as early as 2023. I don't care. I also draw attention to the large amount of funds transferred from the strategic investment fund of Poland Load - it is already in the scope of the tenders settled the amount of more than 53 billion PLN, so I think that the funds for local government units, especially in the investment area, are really a lot. We see the problems of this year with the current expenditure of local government units and on 21 June a Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission was held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. There, too, it has been decided that, together with the local government, we will develop legislative solutions that will allow flexible fiscal policies for local government units to continue this year to meet the challenges of rising prices for municipal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u34	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Monica Falej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Polish self-governments are still looking for ways, how efficiently, according to the law and above all safely to fulfil their responsibilities, but also to be able to carry out all the tasks that have been entrusted to them, because it is extremely important that they have something to do with them. Unfortunately, this participation in PIT and CIT is not sufficient. The Left has made concrete proposals to increase the share of PIT and CIT for local governments, because this is what we have on the part of local government, and this is what we expect from the government to increase this share, because local governments now have expectations from teachers, and they also need to take care of medical staff in hospitals, where nurses are now asking them to increase their share of earnings, and non-medical services also expect this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I have a question as to whether there is a chance to increase participation in PIT and CIT, because Elbląg, Mrągowo, Ostróda need such money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u36	Thank you. Mr Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, answers the questions again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u37	Dear Marshal, High Seym! As I explained just now, in place of personal income tax losses, part of the general subsidy will enter, so-called. balancing subsidy, which will be allocated algorithmically on the basis of objective criteria. As regards the increase in the share of personal tax, I would like to point out here in favour of the following, that for some local government units such a solution may not have any effect. For what reason? Imagine a less affluent local government unit after 1 July this year, where most people are people with relatively low incomes. There, the tax base for the tax on natural persons will decrease diametrically. I'm in constant contact with local government officials. One of the wójtów presented the situation in its local government unit and said that in its municipality for 2021 the second tax threshold exceeded only 27 persons, so the increase in PIT shares in such a municipality after a significant reduction in the base would not do anything. Therefore, a development subsidy tool has been introduced that will evenly supplement the losses due to the reduction of tax rates and the increase in the amount of free personal income tax. That's what I always say. In conclusion, I would like to add this question: How better to have: 1% of billions or 100% from a small base or even from nothing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u38	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. This is a question for the Prime Minister and is asked by Members Waldemar Andzel, Jarosław Krajewski, Jacek Osuch, Agnieszka Soin and Dariusz Stefaniuk. The first question was asked by Waldemar Andzel and Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the pandemic, Poles very eagerly started using mobile and electronic solutions for citizens. Meanwhile, the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers informed about the draft law on mCitizen's application and about the creation of a digital wallet for documents. Please provide details of the proposed changes, since they would enter into force and how many Poles currently use mCitizen's application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u40	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuing with these questions, Mr Waldemar Andzel, I am addressing the Minister with such a specific question. As the rules proposed by the Prime Minister's firm will come into force, we will be able to talk about legal alignment of digital documents supported by mCitizen's application with these documents in the traditional version, it will be a great facilitation for millions of Poles. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether an information campaign is planned on this issue, which will promote the mCitizen's application and which will lead us to the greatest possible dissemination of this application, the possibility of using it, because, as I mentioned, it will definitely facilitate the lives of millions of Poles. If so, what funds will be transferred to this information campaign, a social campaign? Is the role of public media in popularising very good solutions for citizens also planned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u42	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! High Izbo! I answer the question that Mr Waldemar Andzel asked. Indeed, the scope of these changes, which we propose, is extremely wide due to the fact - I answer this question together - that almost 8 million Poles use mCitizen's application every day. This is the most popular public mobile app available in our country, which we are very happy about. On the other hand, we have recognised as people responsible for digitization in our country that if we offer Poles such a popular solution as the mCitizen's application, which contains broad components, also those that enable us to confirm our identity in many places, such as the mCitizen's component, mChief's driving licence, student IDs are available, which confirm our identity, we would really like citizens who use this application every day to be able to confirm their identity in every situation in our country on an equal basis with the personal proof of this secure application. It seems quite rational, because today we live in times where, when we leave home, more, I suspect, people forget their wallet and traditional document than a smartphone, than a phone that often keeps in their hands. It seems that it will be a good solution if we give Poles the opportunity to deal with their civil affairs, official on a daily basis, also from the application level, from the telephone level. The first key change - mCitizen's application will be treated in the Polish country on an equal footing with the identity card, excluding issues of crossing borders. It is very clear, this is still a stage of international cooperation, so we establish all these issues that are within the Republic of Poland. The second extremely important change is also the introduction of transactionality in mCitizen's application, through which citizens will be able to pay for public services, i.e. if a citizen in a given office settles a given matter and has to pay a fee, he will be able to do it calmly from the application level, from the telephone level, he will not have to look separately for cash to pay the fee, only he will be able to do it through the Citizen's office. The law itself, which legally aligns the application with personal evidence, we hope that it will come into force this year, at the end of this year. That is our goal now. The bill is already on the government agenda. On the other hand, when it comes to adding further functionalities, i.e. payment functions, this is rather next year, this is the case It's pretty complicated, but we'll be working hard on it. I do not hide that our goal is to make the mCitizen's application not only password-based, but to make it a real digital wallet, a wallet for documents. We're gonna add more documents there, like a pensioner's and a pensioner's license. We already have an mCharter of the Big Family, which is used by several hundred thousand Poles, we also have a mLegitimation school, student, and we also have documents for drivers: mVideo, mVideo driving. This causes that really this app mCitizen against the background of Europe is, you can say, such a functional, extensive, very innovative digital wallet for documents, but we miss just this dot over and that all these documents are treated as personal evidence, as full-fledged documents in this sense of plastic. We are therefore making such legislative changes. I answer the question of Mr Jarosław Krajewski. That's a very valuable question. We absolutely need to start a big information campaign. These are, of course, the plans, sir. This campaign will certainly have to have a budget of several million zlotys, because it is a big tool, and in order to reach out effectively today with social media, but also with public media, which are still the most popular medium in our country, of which we are obviously happy, because they create credibility and trust, it is necessary here to make an effort to reach all Poles with such information that by downloading the app mCitizen on their smartphone, not only can they have cool tools, but also can really handle their affairs through the phone, they do not have to walk with only plastic documents every day. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u44	Thank you, Minister. Mr Waldemar Andzel asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for this comprehensive statement. The mCitizen app is one of several hundred available public e-services located on various government platforms. Public administration in Poland is still undergoing a dynamic transformation. Please provide information on how other services located on the portals citizen.gov.pl and business.gov.pl are developing. How much has the number of users of these portals increased since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic? Which e-services are the most popular in Poland? Which voivodships, possibly cities, powiats, dominate when it comes to the interest of inhabitants of e-public services? If, of course, time permits, please also tell us what new projects are currently underway in the area of e-services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u46	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, once again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! First of all, to answer the question about the new e-services themselves, I would like to say that we have such a philosophy that we would like the Polish country to have a digital default, i.e. so that all matters that need to be dealt with officially every day can also be dealt with remotely, through our ICT systems, without leaving the house. This is served by a trusted profile, which 14 million Poles use every day to handle many of their official affairs. That's what we're really excited about. Of course, the spectrum of these e-services will be constantly expanded. It is very important for us to be able, ladies and gentlemen, to really talk about the fact that all issues are to be dealt with. Such proposals will certainly be implemented. As for the specific data that you have asked, we will answer this question in detail in writing, because it was such a specific question, even to the level of the counties. We'll have to check it out in detail. However, when it comes to e.g. about the portal RP, as we call the portal gov. en, this is the Polish digital gate, it is only in 2022 that we have over 768 million views, I mean until April, for the last 12 months, until April. The average of the month is over 15 million views on the portal, which seems to be quite a good result. This shows that Poles want to use e-services every day, they want to use the gov portal. en, which we will expand. This is a whole series of projects. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support these projects. The Government of Law and Justice has really made Poland a digital state. We achieve better results in many international rankings. We are very pleased and hope that this will be appreciated by you as much as possible, because it is the slogan: modern Poland, innovative Poland, wide, free internet access in schools, record shopping for students in schools for remote learning, the equipment of local governments with modern innovative tools - this is happening. These expenditures under the rule of law and justice are incomparably greater when it comes to comparison with opposition, with the times of the Civic Platform, when these expenditures were, you can say, only symbolic. Today, the Government of Law and Justice shows how to build an innovative, modern, citizen-friendly state. We are very pleased that the state is supporting us in this area and we are discussing this in the Sejm. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u48	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Ms Monika Wielichowska and Ms Joanna Jaśkowiak, as well as a group of Members of the Civic Coalition, raise the question to the Minister of State Assets. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland there are housing cooperatives and housing communities which, for the purposes of heating and heating water, acquire heat energy from energy companies, in which the fuel for the production of heat is natural gas and which were excluded from compensation, because the government has implemented an unfair social, faulty and, above all, a faulty act. I talked about it from here exactly four months ago. Following me are complex interpellations, meeting with the President of the URE and attending the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. PGNiG imposed business tariffs on housing communities, cooperatives, housing boilers. Minister, what else do you not understand about this subject, and why don't you do anything about it? February 25th this year on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition to the Marshal's staff I submitted a bill amending the Act - Energy Law. The amendment will offset the right to compensation, to a warm apartment, and will allow aid excluded from support to households. This is a very expected amendment of the law by thousands of residents of housing cooperatives and housing communities throughout Poland. On 23 March, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed this draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, contained in print No 2111, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The project is still in the Commission freezer. It's been four months. What are you waiting for, Minister? The project is ready, so enjoy it. Don't wait for human drama. Once again, I demand that you take a job and make amends for what you've ruined. Once again, there is a bill that will correct your mistakes and, above all, restore social justice. Take it and enjoy it. Accept our amendment. She will allow help to all households, not just some. She will balance the rights of all citizens. It is primarily about the right to a warm apartment. Why aren't you fixing your mistakes? Why has the project been in the committee's freezer for so many months? What did the Minister do to get the project processed? Why didn't the government (the bell) put forward its solutions if you didn't want to use our solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u50	Thank you. Mr Maciej Małecki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the energy crisis caused by Vladimir Putin, despite the completely naive, devoid of the reality of European elite policies, the government has been working to reduce the rise in energy prices. [[Tell that to the people of New Rudy and Przemyśl.]] Solutions were adopted to reduce VAT on natural gas from 23% to 8% and from 1 February to 0%. and VAT on heat from 23% to 8% from 1 January and from 1 February from 8% to 5%. Another mechanism to mitigate the effects of energy price increases was introduced by the Law of 17 December Ub. a. with a cover-up. This supplement includes nearly 7 million households, which accounts for almost half of all households in our country. This is support for the most deprived people and families who have been most affected by the rise in energy prices. On 29 January, the Act on Special Solutions to Protect the Consumers of Gas Fuels entered into force in view of the situation on the gas market. This Act introduced a mechanism of maximum prices for the most extensive catalogue of recipients, as set out in the Act, which could be included in the Act. For them, the gas price is PLN 200,17 per MWh at the current market rate of about PLN 600. So the market price is three times higher than that paid by individuals in single-family homes, communities, housing cooperatives and vulnerable recipients - hospitals, schools, kindergartens, hospice, voluntary firefighters, etc. The amount of compensation which the Polish State transfers to gas sellers under these provisions is PLN 10 billion per year. It should be made very clear that, on the occasion of this law, it was possible to protect customers using gas for living purposes: households, housing communities, housing cooperatives and vulnerable consumers mentioned by me. The key to solving this problem lies not in Warsaw, but in Brussels. This EU legislation does not allow for the extension of the support of gas subsidies to businesses such as heating which produce heat commercially. This is clear from Directive 2009/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas and repealing Directive 2002/55/EC, the provisions of which have been implemented in the Polish law... [[What did you do with...]] ...10 April 1997 in the Act - Energy Law. These EU rules do not allow the tariff protection of the President of the URE of heat-producing enterprises. The issue of tariffs for entrepreneurs using gas for the production of heat was also addressed in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 September 2015 in the Commission v Poland case, which led to the adoption of an amendment to the Energy Law Act. At that time the provisions of the Gas Directive liberalising the gas market in Poland were implemented into Polish law in the area of tariffs for energy entrepreneurs operating on the gas fuel market. These changes abolished the supervision of the President of the URE of tariffs for the sale of gas to wholesale customers and for the sale of gas to final customers who purchase fuel at a virtual point or through tendering, auction or public procurement. On 1 October 2017, the approval of tariffs by the President of the URE for the sale of high methane natural gas and nitrogened to non-domestic end-users was abolished under those provisions. These are reasons which do not allow for a wider coverage of gas subsidies than proposed in this Act. If you really have sincere intentions, I address you as the European People's Party governing the European Parliament... [[What did you do as Minister to help these people?]] Don't pretend. The Polish government has implemented the widest possible protection of gas and heat customers as part of the available legal tools. [[Financed at the expense of entrepreneurs.]] Further movements, on the other hand, belong to Brussels. Unlock this mechanism in Brussels as the European People's Party led until recently by the King of Europe Donald Tusk... [[What did you do as Minister to help the people of New Rudy and Przemyśl?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u52	Don't bother. [[Once again, I hear bullshit.]] Madame, you are not at the market. You're in the Seym, don't yell. [[Mr. Marshal...]] State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: There's a key, representative of the European People's Party, who's strangling Europe apart from life... Seriously, yeah. Look in the mirror. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...the ETS carbon trading scheme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I heard that four months ago.]] Stop fighting in the Polish Sejm and settle this in Brussels. Because you rule there, you are the majority there, and this is a place that can unlock the reduction in fuel prices, heat prices for customers not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe. [[Once again, you are unprepared and unsubstantiated.]] Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Extra... [[Again! Tell that to the residents...]] Don't yell, for God's sake! [[Because the Minister is yelling at us here, Marshal, you allowed it.]] Madame, don't be ridiculous. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Jaskowiak. [[I'm acting on behalf of the locals.]] Yeah, yeah... [[On behalf of citizens you don't listen to.]] [[A voice from the hall: And you know nothing of the matter.]] [[That is exactly what we know, Commissioner, because we deal with her for six months.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[I'll wait till the ladies are done.]] [[You'll be familiar with our bill.]] Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, the Sejm dealt with a draft law on specific solutions to protect the customers of certain solid fuels due to the situation on the market for these fuels. The project provides for compensation of PLN 750 gross per tonne, assuming that it is not more than 3 tonnes per household. A maximum expenditure limit of PLN 3 billion was set for the whole 2023. We've got 1.5 secure. millions of households. According to the figures of the GUS of 2020, these farms are estimated to be 5 million. I wanted to ask the Minister what you are proposing to the remaining 3.5 million farms using coal for heating purposes. What do you propose, Minister, to those who use, for example? from the fuel oil? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask for information in writing. Otherwise, those other people will be left with nothing but chrust, and they might miss it in the woods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u54	Again, you are Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this meeting, the Sejm is a proceded act reducing the price of coal for individual customers and for living purposes in communities and housing cooperatives. The project provides compensation for sellers who sold solid fuels such as coal, briquettes, pellets containing at least 85% hard coal at a price not higher than PLN 966,60 gross per tonne for households in the Republic of Poland. The condition for granting compensation is also to register in the territory of the Polish company benefiting from this compensation. And here it is intended for payment of PLN 3 billion. The compensation shall be no more than PLN 750 gross per tonne at the sale of no more than 3 tonnes of solid fuel per household. On the other hand, I would also like to make it very clear that there must be two issues in this debate. The first case is 2014 and the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, who... [[Minister...]] ...in the European Council, she agreed to abolish the unanimity of the Member States on climate issues. By this decision, this desert of Ewa Kopacz today in Poland Polish homes, Polish households bear huge costs, pay huge prices for heat, also due to carbon emissions, because since then, since this white flag posted by Ewa Kopacz in the European Council and its resignation from unanimity, climate decisions are taken by a simple majority on this forum. And now, the Civic Platform, the European People's Party, if you really want to help the recipients of system heat in Poland, if you really want to stop Putin's inflation and cost, suspend the ETS. Get this done with your lifeless friends from the European People's Party and stop it, suspend this harmful to Poland ETS system, because today, on 22 June 2022, the price is close to 85 euros per tonne. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the motto of the way you can hang yourself in the mirror... [[PiS - expensive, PiS - expensive.]] ...because today, Vladimir Putin, whom you wanted to sell Lotus, from which you wanted to take gas until 2037... [[Exactly.]] ...and with which your leader Donald Tusk walked almost under the hand of the Sopot pier... [[You speak here as a minister, not a politician.]] ...and corresponds to the European Union's unlived climate policy, which is strangled by the Polish economy. [[Minister, I'd like an answer to your question.]] [[Substantively, please.]] The rise in electricity prices, the rise in heat prices, the rise in gas prices that cover the whole of Europe are due to Putin's aggression against Ukraine and the complete detachment from the reality of European elites who have done nothing... [[Substantively, please.]] ...to stop this footage of Putin who preferred to do business with him like Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2. While Poland was walking along the road of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński and the Government of Law and Justice conducted a consistent, ambitious, independent climate policy to free us from Russian oil and Russian gas, your political patrons from the European People's Party, such as Angela Merkel, were killing business with Putin... [[What will Poles smoke besides those who receive support?]] ...because you thought Putin was a reliable partner. Today it is simply necessary to be extremely vile to attack the Polish government for the inflation caused by Putin and your naivety as the European People's Party in the European Parliament. Putin can open champagne in the Kremlin if he sees that he is trying to shift the effects of his war, his inflation, his cost of energy resources to any country in Europe, and especially the one that stands in the first series of Ukraine's aid against Putin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u56	Thank you, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Shame on you because today you're alibiing Vladimir Putin and politicians like Angela Merkel. [[Fewer political messages and more retired. You haven't answered any questions.]] I don't know. It's a matter of thought. Minister, thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: It's a matter of wondering if this resignation... [[The Deputy Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Secretary of State speaks with the microphone off.]] Don't do it. It's a brawl here, Minister. You've been way out of time. Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk and Ms Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek have questions for the Minister of Education and Science. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first question to be asked. We're gonna calm down a little bit after this fight.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Pandemic time has shown that the Internet is an important tool both in teaching and in the economy. It was a very difficult time when we had to face a huge social problem all over the world. Therefore, the Ministry of Education and Science, meeting the expectations of all members of the educational and scientific community, announced the creation of a new portal: education.gov.pl. This is another step towards the digital school of the future. It's a digital bag that weighs nothing. I would like to ask the Minister questions about services and tools related to education and learning, which are crucial for the education portal.gov.pl. My questions to the Minister are as follows: How to participate in the consultation? Who are they referring to? What is the role and purpose of the portal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u58	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u59	Dear Marshal, Mrs. Member! High Izbo! I answer your questions. How to participate in the consultation? You can participate in the consultation by filling out a survey on the website of education.gov.pl. As regards who we address them to, who are to be consulted, I answer that the consultation concerns all participants in educational and scientific life in the Republic of Poland, in particular school teachers and academic teachers, pupils, students, parents of school children, school heads, rectors of universities, curators of education and other educational staff. As far as the role and purpose of the project itself is concerned, what is its essence, I answer that the role of the project is to unify all the possibilities and functionalities of education services in one place. It's kind of a combination. Education.gov.pl aims to raise awareness in the field of education and higher education of pupils, teachers and all participants in educational life in Poland. In addition, functionalities are planned to facilitate administrative issues in schools and universities, certification of competences, diagnosis of competences and other skills. We don't close this directory, that's what this survey is supposed to do. The question is open: What would participants of educational and scientific life like to find on such a portal at a higher level, in such a complex place? I hope I gave you a comprehensive answer to the question. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u60	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Each form of enlargement, the facilitation of education is very much needed. We see it now. Created platform, among others. It shortens the time it takes to contact. One of the new forms of activity is presented by the "Laboratory of the Future' programme. This is a very good addition to the previous educational offer. Over 11,000. entities, schools already benefit from this. Thank you so much for this activity, an idea. It's an opportunity to increase the practical skills of students. My question concerns further planned actions. Are there any new activities planned on the basis of what we already see in the surveys? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u62	Thank you. You will answer once again the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Tomasz Romankowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u63	Dear Marshal, Mrs. Member! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, the future lab programme has proved to be a great success. This is PLN 1 billion, this is an unprecedented scale, the amount of money within a single program dedicated to primary schools. Those resources went there early this year. At the moment, verification is ongoing and the issue of primary schools is considered, for which the governing body is not local self-government units. This pot is also quite large, because it is 200 million PLN. In the autumn, we plan, as we say, the third edition of the programme, although in terms of scale, it can be said that this is the second edition of the programme of the future laboratories. This edition will be directed to secondary schools. Nearly 95% of this programme, which has existed so far, which actually covered this scale, has benefited from this programme. public schools, units. If they didn't benefit, it's, like, their case because they didn't ask for these funds. These measures were intended primarily to provide modern educational equipment. It is about electronics in the form of not only computers, but also 3D printers, scientific aid to schools, especially responding to the challenges of the modern educational forum, adapted also to the needs of children and their interests. As far as other forms of support are concerned, there is no doubt a great success in the recruitment process... The recruitment process is still ongoing, but another third call for the programme is now complete.Meet Poland, which they have also benefited from, can be said, millions of children in Polish schools. It's a $5,000 grant, $10,000. Up to 15,000. PLN, depending on the duration of these trips. Thanks to this, for the first time Polish young people and Polish children have the opportunity to see important places from the point of view of our history, national identity, but also important places from the point of view of science, education, from the point of view of expanding their skills. By the way, children acquire a habit that is useful in their adult life to visit museums, to visit memorial sites. The idea is to be aware of the existence of these places of national memory, important places from the point of view of our identity, cultures that are not only located in this nearby area, but also, you can say, much further. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we are planning much more of these programs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u64	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Monika Pawłowska, Teresa Glenc, Patrick Wicher and Aleksander Mrówczyński address the question to the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u66	Oh, excuse me, gentlemen, the question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Aleksander Mrówczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u67	On June 14th, the first swimming craft crossed the Vistula mine. The investment is already completed. In the near future, the shipping channel will connect the port in Elbląg with the Gulf of Gdansk. This is an opportunity for the economic development of the region, an opportunity for increased tourist traffic, and at the same time it is a huge undertaking, one of the strategic achievements of the government, which will significantly increase the level of security of Poland and strengthen our sovereignty. This is particularly evident now that there is a war going on in Ukraine, and Polish individuals must always obtain consent to the passage of the Pilawska Strait. With this conflict aggravated, it might turn out that Russia will block the Vistula Bay. And despite such obvious facts, the opposition is critical of this investment. Therefore, I ask the Minister to provide information on the parameters of the Vistula mine itself, but also the watercourse to the port of Elbląg, and thus what individuals will be able to use this new shipping route and what economic, tourist benefits we can expect after the complete completion of the investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u68	Thank you. The rest of your time is being used by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, also by Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u69	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I think I am convinced that the total opposition does not need to be persuaded - I think it is not necessary, I believe it very much - as to the meaning of what we are doing, that is, to the excavation of the Vistula Land. If so, then I'll just say that I'm sure she knows that two plus two is four, but in this case it's going to be five, and sometimes 10. It's a synergy effect. Minister! I'm asking for one thing. Tell all these disbelievers, please tell them that we will indeed have a great day on September 17 and that day will open the excavation, for which I warmly thank the President, the Minister and everyone involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u70	Thank you. The answer is given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Marek Gróbaryczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, we need to talk about the whole process related to the construction of the canal by Wiślana. It was in 2007 that a resolution was taken by the Government of Law and Justice, which indicated the necessity of this investment and allocated funds for this task. It was adopted by the Council of Ministers and addressed to implementation. Unfortunately, for eight years our predecessors did not have much to do with this matter. In fact, nothing has been done in the preparation and implementation of this investment, and the final statements by Prime Minister Tusk on its unfoundedness indicated what the real approach is. On the same occasion, one of the Senators of the Civic Platform founded a monument in the Fishing Angles, reminding us of how this excavation is necessary, necessary for implementation. So it was also a kind of little duality or schizophrenia in which society was introduced. It was obvious to us that the implementation of this investment must have its continuation. A new multi-annual programme was therefore prepared in 2016, which indicated the need for this investment and identified the resources for its implementation. The total cost of the total investment we estimated is PLN 1984,5 million and it will not change. It includes, above all, the construction of a channel by the Vistula mine, the construction of a shipping track by the Vistula river, the construction and modernization of a water track on the Elbląg river, the construction of a bridge in Nowakow and the introduction of a shipping track to the port of Elbląg, and additionally the construction of an artificial island and the construction of a dredger which will keep this track in good condition. The shipping track is a track on which units of 4.5 m draught, up to 100 m long and 20 m wide can move. These are ten thousand, so fully oceanic ships that will be able to enter this port freely. Of course, we assume that this will be primarily a port supporting the Tri-City ports. In the current situation, when we have a huge demand for new areas, this is an excellent opportunity to launch port areas, prepare new port areas. In this respect, the port in Gdansk is conducting very intensive analyses of investments in the area. Creating some synergies about solutions and joint investments are the directions and actions that we would like to pursue. We will certainly need significant quantities of new storage and storage areas, therefore we also allow or assume the possibility of building a new terminal in the area of Tolkmicka, which will now serve as a mass terminal. However, this is information that I can't confirm yet, as analyses and evaluations are underway as part of the investment process. It's going to be a 100% venture. business, therefore the port in Gdansk is preparing solutions. Security is an additional element that accompanies this investment, or maybe has a priority. Here we assume that it will increase and secure the possibility of metastases and supplies for sub-divisions 16. Mechanized Division using the sea road, of course, not to mention the basic elements related to shortening the waterways or generally opening the floodwater for free shipping, for new vessels. The assumption that Pilawska Strait could be used once is absolutely wrong. We know that this is subject only to political decisions and that shipping cannot be carried out through free access to the port of Elbląg. An additional element is the development of all areas and ports located at and on the Vistula River - this is, of course, one of them. port in Tolkmick or in Frombork, Nowa Pasłęka - but also communication through (The Bell) free access to the Loop Żuławska or the Ostródzko-Elbląski Canal, which is...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: ...a fantastic tourist solution. Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Monika Pawłowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u73	Dear Marshal, Minister! Honourable Members! In view of the fact that the excavation of Vislana will allow us to bypass the Pilawska Strait, another question arises, especially if we consider Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the associated danger for our country as well. The question is: Will bypassing the straits contribute, and to what extent, to increasing our sovereignty and thus security - what are the indicators and predictions - perhaps by not putting our country at risk of unnecessary and dangerous disputes, which could be the cause of Russia's aggression?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Marek G grubarczyk again responds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u75	Thank you very much. Of course, the tragedy in Ukraine, which is happening, points to the right direction of this investment. This port or the possibility of free access are today, I think, the only alternative to using these areas directed among others. to the Ukrainian side, but also to other operators who cannot afford to lease land in our ports of vital importance to the national economy. So this is a solution that creates the possibility of redirecting loads from areas that have not been used so far. The emergence of brand new freight groups and new operators is extremely important for the development of the region, especially for the development of the port in Elbląg, but it also creates other development opportunities. The basic element is the lack of any Russian interference in the realization of this transport direction, which is 100% a favourable solution and a guarantee for shipping and free access to Vistula Bay ports. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Wojciech Sharama, Grzegorz Gaża, Jerzy Paul and Bożena Boris-Szopa address the question to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Patients, as well as doctors, appreciate the changes in the digitalization of prescriptions and e-directions received so far. Following this solution, further ones are proposed, such as e-registration to specialists. The electronic registration process should allow e.g. Sign up for an appointment with a cardiologist, a CT or an MRI. However, so far there is no such possibility, which makes the whole process difficult for many patients despite their willingness to benefit from the benefit. I would like to ask if the Ministry has taken action which will result in the introduction of an e-registration service to a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u79	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that question. This is a systemic, comprehensive question about the future and development of the health system and the support of the health system by IT systems that improve healthcare providers, but in particular patients' entire treatment process. This is another thing expected by patients after the success of e-prescription, e-direction and e-procurement on medical devices, which are already standard practice. However, there is a lack of an important element in signing up for a specific health benefit and this e-registration is very expected. In fact, the Ministry of Health signed a regulation of the Minister of Health of 2 June this year. as regards the preparation of pilotage for electronic central registration for certain health benefits. To begin with, in order to test the system, these health benefits have been specified in relation to one outpatient care provision. This is cardiology advice, cardiology counseling and two cost-intensive services in the field of CT and magnetic resonance imaging. This pilotage is currently being launched by the National Health Fund. We agreed that piloting would be covered by 20 entities in two regions of the country. The first region is the settlement region, the towns of the sub-region of the settlement, where there are all the entities that implement, i.e. POZs and AOSs. The hospital also volunteered. These centers were already participants in many pilots. The second region is the Łódź region. There, among others. a clinical hospital, hospitals, private and outpatient specialised care has been reported. We want to test very diverse techniques, small entities up to 500 medical services, as well as the large entities that carry out this. The conditions for the launch of these centres were to have a system for e-registration by these entities or to declare that these hospitals, these medicinal entities, would become part of the IT system of the office. gov.pl and the entire costs of adjusting the system will be the costs of the entity. They declare that they will present a schedule in the P1 system, patient slots and will promote benefits related to the individual patient account and my IKP application. The aim of this project is to test the technical capabilities of the system, to be enrolled in these benefits by patients. The assumption is that these are first-rate benefits. Of course, in the C.T., in the MRI it's actually always a separate goal of diagnostic treatment in case of advice, then there's a continuation. For the time being, we will not serve, but the aim is to test this system of central e-registration for all types of health benefits. For a start in outpatient care and in cost-intensive benefits, but later in relation to all medicinal products. It will be possible to register with such a medicinal product in three modes. The simplest, where we promote, we inform the patient through an individual patient account. Every patient has very easy access to this account, among others. by internet banking, and will be able to find a centre, narrow down under very many criteria, look for a particular type of benefit, e.g. CT scans in a specific region, subregion, city or period or type of benefit. The type of these benefits will also be defined as part of this piloting. We estimate that pilotage will be carried out by the end of November this year. - implementation, signing up for health benefits and testing in December. The aim is to actually convert this pilotage into a normal working system for patients next year and to transfer it to other benefits. These functionalities, which are tested, are to sign up for a visit, manage these slots by patients, by medicinal entities, sign up for a waiting list. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are going to assume that these lists will be replaced by this e-direction system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u80	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u81	Thank you very much. Minister! You answered my question very comprehensively. For tradition to be fulfilled, I would like to ask: Will the technical conditions for piloting be fulfilled? After the new year, next year, if we want to cover a wider range in the country, will these technical conditions also be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u83	During the piloting we chose such entities which, as I said earlier, participated in pilots, have good IT services, have good systems and are therefore certainly better prepared than the average in Poland, but the aim is to improve these processes. It is very important, among others. time of connection of individual medicinal entities, cooperation with technical support lines, support for the integration of information systems. By the way, several IT systems of private companies will also be tested, which normally deliver software to the market. Therefore, in the case of integration with these providers, this process will already be carried out and will be much easier to carry out. The health centre already has experience, as you know, in connecting many entities. 14,000. The pharmacy was plugged in quickly. By default, everyone in Poland actually already uses this prescription system. The most important thing for us is to optimize the system's operation as efficiently as possible, to connect the system to the providers. The point is to make it as simple as possible to make it work. As you can see, this piloting and in general the whole methodology for preparing the projects of the health centre is such that first quietly, everything is tested quietly. The point is that later it actually works with a very large number of players, with a very large amount of work and that these benefits are standard, that they are realized by everyone, they go under the fence. The point is that every patient can be served directly at the place where he is taken, in primary health care, by an assistant, by registration, so that when he leaves primary health care, he immediately has a fixed time limit for continuing treatment, or when he leaves the Sickbay of Specialized Care - a CT scan. It is also about the patient being served by the subject - or most patients being able to do it by themselves - and being able to enroll in their region or possibly even look for another region, as he will want to find (the bell) a faster date for access to health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u84	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Barbara Nowacka, Paweł Pontylius and a group of members of the Civic Coalition address the question to the President of the Council of Ministers. As the first Mr Paul Pontylius. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u85	Thank you, Marshal. As the Civic Coalition, we support Europe's goal of achieving the objective of climate neutrality, but the adoption by the PiS government of parts of milestones within the framework of the KPO results from the need to master the critical situation in Poland, where even its own electorate expects European money under the Fund for Reconstruction. Some of the politicians of the United Right Camp consider some milestones to be surrender to the European Commission. The policy of getting up from the knees ends in even worse conditions of functioning of Poland in the European Union. An example of a reckless policy of the PiS government, based on the principle: somehow this will be, is the agreement to include milestones in the KPO concerning the introduction of registration fees for cars from 2024 and after 2 years - the tax on combustion cars. The proof that the government didn't know what it was going to be about is the embarrassing interpretations of Minister Buda that with this tax, it's nothing. We don't know if the president of Kaczyński, who says they're some kind of fairy tale. From these twisted explanations, it appears that the government did not and did not have an idea for a tax on cars during the negotiations. And now the government has frightened its electorate, who drives cars due to the worsening socio-economic situation - which the PiS officers, Mr Morawiecki and Mr Glapiński have the greatest credit for - and will not be able to afford to buy an electric car charged with additional taxes. Hence the question: What were the assumptions concerning the rates of taxation on combustion cars in the negotiating instructions of representatives of the Polish government in negotiations on KPOs with the European Commission? Second: Isn't it that the owners of cars with these taxes will pay for the construction of the Izera electric car factory, which is going to cost at least PLN 5 billion? Poles have already paid PLN 70 million for the activities of ElectroMobility Poland, which for several years has focused only on storytelling - as Prime Minister Kaczyński said about the Polish electric car. Where is the million electric cars promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki in 2016? Is the new tax on diesel cars in KPO the only trace of these promises by Prime Minister Morawiecki? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u86	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Ireneusz Zosta is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u87	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The National Plan for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Immunity is a programme that will deliver new investments, build an innovative economy, increase employment. The financial resources from this instrument will also be devoted to economic development, innovation, environment, digitisation, education, health and - what is extremely important - the development of modern energy, including the area of electromobility, charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, hydrogen vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the question of the group of Members represented by Mr Paul Pontylius, I must say that there were no negotiating instructions, there were no assumptions regarding the amount of taxes or emission charges. The Milestone record is very broad and does not impose new tax burdens on both conventional vehicles' emissions, conventional fuels and the use of such fuels. Many times Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, but also other representatives of the government and the leadership of Law and Justice informed the public that we would not impose any charges on the use of conventional vehicles. Law and Justice policy, the Government of Law and Justice is an incentive policy, not a policy of punishment and burdening society, especially those groups that cannot afford to purchase equipment such as electric cars of new technologies that are still expensive, because every technology entering the market is a relatively expensive technology. I would also like to remind you, Members, who ask this question, that in Poland's energy policy by 2040 - this is a strategic document on energy mix, energy transformation in Poland - we have introduced the fundamental pillar of this policy, which is a fair transformation. It also concerns the area of transport, communication. We must not allow any social group to be excluded from the energy transition or the broadly understood economic transformation that is currently underway. Nor can we lead to transport exclusion, communication exclusion. Many Poles today use vehicles, cars with conventional drive, it is the vast majority of Polish society. Therefore, this is what I said earlier: an incentive policy at the level of law-making, but also support programmes. Here I would like to say and remind you that in 2018 the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels was passed. This act defined the path of building infrastructure for charging electric vehicles. The Act provides incentives for the purchase of zero-emission vehicles, among others. by exemption from excise duty and depreciation limit increased for electric vehicles up to 225 000. zł. The Act was amended in 2021 and introduced reduced depreciation for combustion vehicles with a deadline of 1 January 2026. Here the depreciation has been reduced to 100,000. PLN, while electric vehicles will maintain a higher depreciation rate - 225 thousand. zł, which is also an incentive element especially for entrepreneurs to choose more low- and zero-emission vehicles since the middle of this decade. The element that we see as possible to fill a milestone, which is asked by a group of Members, is excise duty. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today in Poland there are provisions on excise duty. Cars whose engines have more capacity and thus emit more harmful substances into the environment pay a higher rate of excise duty. This is an element that can in the future be a tool that can be used to regulate and fill this milestone. Surely no new issue fees for the possession, registration of the vehicle and the tax on the use of a conventional vehicle, a conventional-powered vehicle, will be introduced by the Law and Justice Government. There will probably still be a chance for a supplementary question, but I would like to answer first of all this famous populist call from the opposition about where this 1 million electric cars are. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2017, when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki gave his first exposé (Dzwonek), he set out a very ambitious and bold prospect for the development of the electromobility sector in Poland, indicating de facto the direction of actions aimed at up to 1 million electric cars.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u88	Minister, thank you. You're gonna answer an extra question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: In 2017, it was difficult to say that this would be achieved in a specific year. I think that this is the level that we will achieve in the 2030 horizon, in line with the views of market experts. Thank you very much. [[You don't listen to a marshal like that?]] Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Barbara Nowack. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! So when are you guys lying? Are you lying to the European Commission or are you lying to the speaker now? You've clearly written down in the milestones that there's going to be a tax. Now you say no tax. If we don't fill out the milestones, the money won't go to people. Because the condition for starting money is to fill milestones. And now you're telling us that he's not gonna fill in, and he's telling us shittyly that excise duty isn't tax. It's called excise duty, Minister, so I would very much ask you to respect the seriousness of the Sejm and tell the truth. And my second question. You planned the tax. We're going to reduce emissions. I'd like to ask you how you prepare for this society. We've already learned that 1 million cars are gone, gone and gone. That's right, we were convinced, too, even though we know how much the taxpayers paid for it. What have you prepared when it comes to public transport? How do you combat communication exclusion? 'Cause it's the poorest that's gonna get hurt. So what are your actions (the bell) to improve the availability of public transport? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u90	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environmental Affairs, Mr Ireneusz Zbarga, again responds. Minister, please hold your time, because we must make it before the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition can only scream reality... [[And you lie.]] ...populistism, passwords... [[1 million cars was populism.]] ...that have nothing to do with reality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 1 million cars will be on Polish roads. [[Of course, when we get to power.]] If not in 2025... Madam, I have a lady. For a cultural person, believe me... [[And I thought you were honest.]] ...and I listened to your speech in a large discipline of personal culture. [[I thought you were honest, and you...]] Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u92	Minister, answer the question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I would like to answer that in terms of support programmes, the Government of Law and Justice has launched over PLN 5 billion, dedicating and spending under the Green Public Transport Programme implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. As a result, Polish cities contracted more than 600 electric buses and nearly 150 hydrogen-powered buses. In addition, there are 700 million PLN under my electricity programme. This programme is also implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In the last year we doubled the number of electric cars on Polish roads, today we are approaching the level of 50,000. vehicles. At the moment, there is also a programme to finance alternative fuel infrastructure, namely electric vehicle charging stations and hydrogen filling points. The government allocated PLN 870 million for this purpose. In the near future there will be 300 hubs of charging electric vehicles, fast charging. These are modern chargers, the most modern in the world, produced by the Polish company. These chargers will be located in large urban agglomerations and on major transport routes, motorways and expressways. This will cause that as a result of the habit of drivers for rapid flow, rapid rotation of cars, rapid filling of conventional cars, then electric electric vehicles will increase in the number of electric vehicles on Polish roads. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that before 2030 - in such a perspective according to experts from many industry organizations, think tanks - on Polish roads will drive a million electric cars. In addition, we directed over PLN 1 billion to the development of electricity distribution networks, 4 000. km of distribution lines, which are intended to supply the energy supply of 800 transformer and distribution stations, which in turn will result in the possibility of safe charging of electric vehicles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everything will not be answered, but I will say that electromobility in Poland develops in such a short time. Today there is an excise duty on combustion vehicles, and with this tool we will fulfill the milestone to which we have committed ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Members Jerzy Małecki, Iwona Arent, Adam Oldakowski and Wojciech Kossakowski ask them. The first question is asked by Mr Adam Oldakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u93	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On 13 April 2021, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the establishment of a programme for the construction of 100 bypasses for the period 2020-2030. As part of the program, 100 bypasses with a total length of 820 km have to be created throughout Poland. 28 billion PLN has been allocated for the implementation of the programme. According to the assumptions, the construction of bypasses is intended to improve road safety, improve road network capacity and bring traffic out of crowded cities. The implementation of the investment is expected to have a positive impact on the environment, among others. contribute to improving air quality or reducing noise levels. Thanks to the implementation of the programme, new jobs are created. They are also intended to be an incentive for the development of road investment companies. Since it has already been a year since the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the establishment of a programme for the construction of 100 bypasses for the period 2020-2030, I would like to ask you a question about the implementation of the programme. In particular, I would like to learn about the progress of the work in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u94	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Members, interested in road investments, especially the 100 bypasses programme! The Ministry of Infrastructure has developed a programme of construction of 100 bypasses. This programme is for the period 2020-2030 and, as the name suggests, is devoted to the implementation of bypasses in national roads. Already at the outset it must be admitted that this is the first such a thorough and comprehensive programme of construction of bypasses proposed by the Polish government, specifically by the Government of Law and Justice. As you mentioned, the Council of Ministers adopted this programme in April 2021. The programme will create 100 bypasses on national road networks. We estimate that the total length will be approx. 820 km. It should be stressed that the routes built by us will have the highest technical parameters, adapted for carrying a load of 11.5 t per axle. These investments will be accompanied by road safety devices, including e.g. lighting meeting the guidelines for correct lighting of walkways. The cost of implementing all 100 bypasses was estimated at PLN 28 billion. We have secured funding for this under the National Road Fund. Currently there are already 15 investments in the implementation, of which the bypasses of Wąchock, Smolajn and Brzezia are in the construction phase. The remaining 12 are in the design phase, while the agreement for these investments also covers the construction phase, which is why we are talking about that they are in the implementation phase. 85 bypasses are at the stage of preparation, the necessary administrative decisions are obtained, including in particular environmental decisions. The implementation of bypasses over national roads is very important and crucial due to the removal of bottlenecks on the road network and improved travel conditions, as well as the elimination of the negative impact of noise and exhaust emissions on residents by moving out of the city centers. It should also be noted that one of the main effects of the programme will be to improve road safety. We want to achieve this by bringing transit traffic out of crowded towns. We have a rule: the fewer places of contact with vehicles, especially heavy ones, with vulnerable road users, pedestrians or cyclists, the safer. Therefore, built bypasses will positively affect this sphere of our lives. I am now moving on to the implementation of the programme in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Five bypasses are planned in this voivodship. Circuit one, but two towns - parts Olsztyn and Dyvit. The second bypass - the town of Gąski. Third - the city of Write. Fourth - the city of Szczytno. Fifth - Smolajny; it is a town in the municipality of Dobre Miasto. The total length of these bypasses will be over 45 km, and their value is estimated at almost PLN 1700 million. It should be noted here that the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship will be the first voivodship in which the bypass under this program will be put into service. We're already at the end of work on the construction of the Smolajn ring road. I hope that the next quarter will show that this road, this ring road will be put into service and will already communicate the national road no.51 in Warmia-Mazury voivodeship. All others shall be at least at the stage of the preparatory work. As regards preparatory work, they are carried out in the framework of a technical and environmental study, which, in the case of these agreements, is extended to include elements of the programming concept. This way of preparing investments seems to be the most efficient and optimal. In this case, the first stage is defined, among others. routes for handling adjacent terrain, the types and basic technical parameters of engineering facilities shall be determined. In addition, at this stage, a natural inventory is carried out which provides the basis for determining the scope and type of environmental protection equipment used. So that road investments that are currently being carried out are carried out in a modern way. Not only so that the use of the road itself is safe and comfortable, but also so that everything around it - whether urbanized, inhabited or forested - is also adapted to this road in an appropriate way. Or vice versa: for the road to be built to be adapted and to fulfil a much wider function (the Bell) than just the communication one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u96	Thank you, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Małecki. You're welcome. Please ask a short question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Among the investments planned to be implemented under the 100 bypasses programme was the Bypass Write during the national roads 58 and 63. During the course of the project, the residents of the municipalities of Pisz presented preliminary variants of the route. They did not meet with the acceptance of the local community because they assume the route of the bypass through urbanized areas. In the assessment of residents Writes these options do not allow to achieve the main objective of construction of the bypass, which is the departure of transit traffic. In the proposed shape, they do not solve the city's communication problems. In practice, they also imply the need to interfere with the construction structure of the city, including residential buildings. For this reason, the Leadership Group has presented the so-called. a citizens' option, containing compromise solutions and providing for the removal of transit traffic out of the city. The approximate option appeared in October ub. r. on maps prepared by designers from TRAKT company, which were sent to the City Office in Pisz. Unfortunately, this option was withdrawn before the start of the public consultation. Considering the above, on behalf of the people of Write...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u98	Thank you, sir. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u99	...I'd like to ask you why...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u100	Minister Rafał Weber again with an answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u101	...will be built in a changing option... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u102	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the bypass is concerned, 58 and 63, as the Member mentioned, documentation is currently being carried out on the development of a technical and environmental study, together with materials for environmental decision and elements of the programming concept. I know the subject because I met with Mr Jerzy Małecki, but also with other representatives who are interested in the construction of the ring road Pisz. We take this subject very seriously. We're not really building roads against society, we're building roads for society. We always try to put society's interests first. Of course, we also need to analyse environmental, technical and economic elements as part of this study. They all form a whole, which then decides which variant or bypass, whether a given expressway is chosen for the environmental decision. As far as the Writer ring road is concerned, we will try to exercise due diligence in order to choose the option, which will above all be a viable option. Sometimes social expectations are right, but when it comes to their implementation, they are simply impossible, because there are obstacles, e.g. environmental or technical, or the cost itself is so high that it exceeds the expected amount of investment. On the other hand, we always take this subject very seriously, trying to listen to the voice of the public and make the best possible choices and the best possible assessments in public consultation. So I'm hoping that when it comes to the Writer ring road, we can handle it. The last sentence is related to the inflationary situation, to the war that is beyond our eastern border, which gives us visible increases in building materials. Putin's actions and here are unfortunately very visible and have a negative impact on us. However, thanks to the decision of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, we will valorize the contracts already concluded so that all the investments that are in the implementation that are being prepared are not lost, have not been stopped, have not been stopped. So that, as far as the 100 bypasses are concerned, I hope that all investments will go according to our plan and in line with our objectives in 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u104	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 12 h 11 min 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u105	I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2377. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and certain other laws, - organic farming and organic production. The reports shall be printed in 2358 and 2359 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, - amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2360, 2367 and 2356 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have formal requests, but before that, ladies and gentlemen... Okay, formal conclusions. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u106	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the sitting be adjourned and adjourned until it is clarified whether Minister Waldemar Kraska is a mirror liar or whether he has not been verified by the Institute of National Remembrance. Call the president of the IPN. The correspondence addressed to one of the independent historians indicates that Waldemar Kraski's statements were not verified at all. That's what comes to mind. Your marshal has been aware of this since the last session of the Sejm. The question is, therefore, whether she filed a legal notification to the prosecution of the possibility of committing a crime. Minister Kraska has performed, has performed many times here, is one of the demiurges (The Bell) of the new normality in Poland... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I ask for a recess, to convene the Senior Convention, so that the government can present information on what it looks like to secure Poles for the next winter in the energy system in Poland. First of all, we don't have secure coal. The government is proposing a flawed bill that is unenforceable and which we will vote on today. Secondly, we don't have secure gas supplies for the next winter. We don't have secure power. The electricity prices are very high. The government is not telling the truth to Poles. We would like the government to present a uniform and complete concept of securing the energy system for Poles. We have blocked windmills that could give us cheap electricity (The Bell), and a ruined energy system that uses...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u109	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u110	...Polish sunshine. We will make Poles cold. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u111	Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u112	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Apologize for Jachira.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a break in order for the President of the Council of Ministers to provide information on how large the current composition of the Council of Ministers is and how much it costs. Ladies and gentlemen! You've already lost your way. You don't know how many ministers, vice-ministers, state secretaries, undersecretaries you have today. What's more, you've come to such hypocrisy that you reward ministers' positions without a portfolio of people who should have been kicked out of politics a long time ago. You canceled the Minister of Finance for Poland Ład, for the biggest tax mess in history, and yesterday you awarded him the position of Minister without a briefcase in KPRM. Is it possible to be more hypocritical? [[Applause]] Moreover, Poles are in poverty, and you blew KPRM's spending by several hundred percent. You are the only government whose only prescription for the crisis are new posts (Applause), new Secretary of State (the bell), undersecretaries...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u113	Thank you very much. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u114	...and today the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u115	Thank you, sir. Catherine Kotula, Left. There isn't. Minister Łukasz Schreiber. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! No. Well, the answer and a prescription to these problems are, above all, a number of solutions that we have put in place. [[Voice from the room: For Kościński.]] That's for example. The anti-inflationary shield is zero VAT on food products, it's a radical reduction in taxes on energy, gas, heat, oil. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The second thing is a tax change. [[Some Members chant: We've had enough! We've had enough! We've had enough!]] From 1 July the tax will fall to 12%. You're talking about the poorest people. It's for them too. Income tax will fall to 12%. Can't you see that? Another thing is a tax-free pension. Retirement of up to 2.5 thousand. Evil will be tax-free. What was your prescription for the crisis when there was so much inflation, when the unemployment rate was much higher than today? You raised your taxes, you increased your VAT. You didn't do anything for these people. We're doing a credit vacation, four months this year, four months next year. Now there's the Coal Act. What were you doing? You didn't do anything. The state deserted. That's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u117	Thank you very much. There you go, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion for a recess to give clubs and wheels time to think about it... [[We already know.]] ... as they vote today on the citizens' project on Legal abortion. No compromise. [[Applause]] We want to give the Law and Justice time to withdraw this shameful motion to reject a citizens' project at first reading, which has signed over 200,000. Citizens and citizens. It is the only project that restores the dignity and security of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: You had time to think.]] Dear Polki! Look carefully today at the hands of politicians and politicians who will vote on this matter and remember this until the next election, because today you can only be behind women or against them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u119	Here you go, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u120	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! From yesterday's discussion about the Coal Act, it is clear that in the winter of this year there will be no coal in Poland. [[That's not true.They're lies.]] We're out of 2.5. One million tons of coal for households will run out of 4.5 million tons of coal for Polish energy. Are you aware of that? What do you want to do about it? Do you have secure supplies? Where do you want to get this fuel for Poland? Will there be no gas, too? You owe us those answers. [[Applause]] [[It was so grammatical.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the young people sitting at the gallery from the School Complex No. 5 from the 7th High School of General Education from Płock and volunteers who help the fighting Ukraine and Ukraine. Welcome. [[Applause]] Since everyone requested a break, we will vote on this request for a break. This is the good will of the marshal, because the formal conclusion was incorrect. There you go, we're voting on a request for a recess. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted 215 - in favour, 234 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the urgent government draft law amending the Act on Public Documents. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2375. We're voting. Who is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2375 in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted, 440 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. 10. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Public Documents. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2313-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the committee on the government draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air, in print no. 2308 and 2313. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Joint Committees: Infrastructure and National Defence have examined the amendments tabled and recommend that the High House adopt them. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5 are voted on together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u123	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2313. At the same time, in the additional report, the committees present the amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the 1st amendment, with amendments 2, 3 and 5. We vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 305 - for, 136 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 440 - for, 1 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 2313, together with the amendments adopted? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 439 - for, 5 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm passed a law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2357-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u124	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws, print No. 2351. On 22 June 2022, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in prints Nos 2351 and 2357 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for the purpose of examining the proposal and amendments submitted at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after careful consideration at its meeting on 22 June 2022, requests that the High Sejm reject the motion to reject the draft law, reject amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, accept amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, except that amendments 6, 7, 8, 11 and 12 should be voted in total, and adopted in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u125	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2357. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 205 - for, 243 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The adoption of this amendment will render the 3rd amendment futile. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 206 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 208 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 207 - for, 242 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment, which brings together amendments 7, 8, 11 and 12. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments from 6 to 8 and 11 and 12? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 258 - for, 190 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 259 - for, 189 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 258 - for, 145 - against, 46 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2357, together with the amendments adopted? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 241 - for, 204 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Tourism Organization and the Act on Gambling. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2363-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Additional report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the government draft law amending the Act on the Polish Tourism Organization and the Act on gambling. An amendment was tabled during the second reading. The Commission rejected it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u127	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2353. The Commission also presents an amendment on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2363? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 441 - for, 5 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Polish Tourist Organization and the Act on gambling. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on amending the Public Finance Act and the Environmental Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2362-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymański to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u128	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law from Print No. 2352. The Sejm at its current meeting on 22 June 2022, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2362 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting today, i.e. On 23 June 2022, he asks the High Sejm to reject the motion to reject the draft law and all three amendments, except that amendments 2 and 3 must be considered together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u129	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2362. The Commission also puts forward in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 218 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 216 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 2nd Amendment, with which Amendment 3 is linked. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2362? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Public Finance Act and the Act - Environmental Law. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements to protect the customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. In the discussion, a request for a third reading was made without referring the draft law to the committee after delivery of the table of amendments. I will put this proposal to the vote in the light of the opposition. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal for a third reading without referring the bill back to the committee after the amendments have been submitted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to ladies and gentlemen for print No 2361. We proceed to the third reading. We are voting on the first amendment. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 172 - for, 232 - against, 43 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215-- for, 232-- against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 214 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th amendment with which Amendment 7 is combined. We vote on them together. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 5 irrelevant. Six and eight. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 4 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 206 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The adoption of this amendment will render the 6th amendment futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 57 for, 392 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 206 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 14 - for, 429 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Ten for, against - 439, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 36 - for, 410 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 172 - for, 239 - against, 35 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 15th amendment. Who's in favour of the 15th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's working. 449 Members voted. 429 - for, 8 - against, withdrawed 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2361, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who doesn't it work with? [[Voice from the O.R.: I'm working.]] It works for me, too. 449 Members voted. 298 - for, 15 - against, abstained 136. The Sejm has passed a law on specific arrangements to protect the customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft law on safe abortion and other reproductive rights. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. We're voting. Who is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2298? [[Some Members chant: Behind Life! To life! To life!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 265, 175 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and certain other laws (prints 2275 and 2358). I ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u130	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Veterinary Inspection Act and some other laws, print No 2275. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 22 June 2022, asks the High Sejm to accept amendments 1, 2, 9 and 10 and to reject the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u131	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. We are voting on Amendment 1, which we will consider together with Amendments 9 and 10. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 9 and 10? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against -442, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 1 for, against - 438, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We are voting on Amendment 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 - for, 216 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 232 - for, 213 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 228 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the sixth amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 218 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of rejecting the 7th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[Speech outside the microphone]] 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 218 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 218 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 - for, 216 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on organic farming and organic production (prints Nos 2342 and 2359). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u132	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Green Agriculture and Organic Production Act, print No. 2342. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 10 June 2022 for consideration. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this resolution at its meeting today, calls for amendments 2 and 5 to be accepted, for the remaining amendments to be rejected and amendments 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10 to be voted in total. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u133	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Nobody was for, 440 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 230 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 3, 4, 6, 8, and 10. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 1 for, 443 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 240 for, 206 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 7th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. No one was against -441, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 9th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was against -443, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, 448 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2343 and 2367). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u134	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, prints Nos 2343 and 2367. The Senate has tabled 22 amendments. All these amendments are recommended by the committee to reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u135	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We are voting on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 14? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 230 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 231 - for, 207 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 - for, 205 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We are voting on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is against Amendments 4 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 229 - for, 211 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 - for, 208 - against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the sixth amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 231 - for, 205 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 231 - for, 205 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of rejecting the 9th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, abstained 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th amendment, with amendments 12, 13, 15, 16 and 18 to 22. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 10, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 18 to 22? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 - for, 207 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 - for, 205 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2344 and 2356). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, print No 2344. On 10 June the Sejm Marshal sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Commission considered the Senate amendments on 22 June and asks the High Sejm to reject the amendments set out in points 1, 2 and 3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u137	Thank you very much. You have asked for the floor of Minister Paweł Chezernaker. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the High House very much for the fact that we adopted here two weeks ago an aid bill over political divisions. The bill went to the Senate. The law is of a systemic nature, and these rules often go beyond its scope. This law also includes provisions relating to the purchase of coal in connection with the armed conflict in Ukraine. These provisions, which are in this law, are intended to ensure the safety of Polish citizens in terms of the price of heat. These are regulations to allow coal to be purchased as soon as possible through the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency and to change the situation on the coal market in Poland, to start intervention shopping. Unfortunately, the Senate accepted an amendment that removes these provisions. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] This is hypocrisy, diversion and sabotage, ladies and gentlemen. The government has adopted laws that allow the purchase of this coal, and the Senate is removing these laws. [[Make up your mind.]] Hate for the PiS is clouding your common sense. I appeal to all Members of this House that the second amendment should be rejected by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u139	Thank you, Minister. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: It has been done, it is and will be always and everywhere. Bravo!]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 446 Members voted. 260 - for, 181 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's rejecting the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 238 - for, 5 - against, 201 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 205 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2341 and 2360). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and certain other laws, print No 2341. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 10 June 2022 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Infrastructure Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 23 June 2022, submits: The High Sejm shall reject the Senate's resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u141	I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 12 May 2022 amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favor of rejecting the Senate resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate resolution. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski, represented by Katarzyna Witkowska's attorney dated 15 July 2020, as corrected on 24 August 2020, to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Jacek Żalek liable. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek. We're voting. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski, represented by Katarzyna Witkowska's attorney of 15 July 2020, as corrected on 24 August 2020, to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Jacek Żalka liable for the act set out in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 2 was in favor, against -431, 5 abstained. The Sejm, against the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-executive consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk for the act specified in the application by the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski, represented by Katarzyna Witkowska's attorney on 15 July 2020, as corrected on 24 August 2020. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 on the point: Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the crisis management system and actions of the Council of Ministers to strengthen it in connection with the failure of the 112 emergency number on 19.02.2022, and incorrect operation of the Emergency Notification Centre throughout the country; - Coalition Left Messenger Club by points: - First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the need for severe sanctions against the authorities of the Russian Federation and its associated oligarchs, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the preparation of Poland for the provision of possible assistance to Ukrainian citizens in the field of health protection, social assistance, education of children and young people, residence and work in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in case of escalation of conflict with the Russian Federation and influx of refugees from Ukraine. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on information on the state of the crisis management system. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on the draft resolution on the need for sanctions against the authorities of the Russian Federation and its associated oligarchs. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 205 - for, 227 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to complete the agenda for a point on information on the preparation of Poland for helping Ukrainian citizens in the event of an escalation of the conflict with the Russian Federation and the influx of refugees from Ukraine into Poland. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 194 - for, 224 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2377). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Is there anyone who would like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of accepting the application in print No 2377? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 407 - for, 6 - against, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 20 hours 12 min 36]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u142	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the analysis of the functioning of the Medical Fund will be considered, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time assigned to the section: The current information must not exceed 90 minutes. I would like to warmly welcome the young people from the New Sącz Economic Schools Group and the team of young CSR from the Gołkowice Upper primary school. The group visits the Sejm at the invitation of Mr Duda. We cordially welcome all of you. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Dariusz Klimczak's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u143	Thank you, Marshal. And I join these greetings people who are at the gallery today: Katarzyna Tchajka, Jadwiga Tchajka, Piotr Wolarz - people who represent children with SMA. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today is exactly two years since the draft law on the Medical Fund came to the Sejm. The idea of creating a special fund that would help sick children, especially for rare diseases, diseases whose treatment is not reimbursed, oncology diseases, was the then candidate for President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. This idea in the election campaign you picked up President Andrzej Duda and introduced him to the Sejm. Of course, he did it to cover the scandal for 2 billion PLN on TVP. But today this fund is. But how does it work? Instead of real helping children with cancer and rare diseases, we have untapped financial resources of really great size. Instead of over PLN 6 billion from the Medical Fund for health protection in 2020 and 2021, only 171 million were spent. In 2021, the Medical Fund allocated only 21% to this. the entire budget. This means that more than PLN 3.5 billion has not been used. According to the latest report of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the medical fund manager failed to fulfil four of the eight tasks of this fund last year, which shows the institutional weaknesses of the Ministry of Health. In 2021, tasks from previous years were primarily carried out and their actual contractor was the NFZ. All the new tasks introduced by the Medical Fund Act, which required the work of officials, were prepared and agreed throughout the last year. The consequence was the freezing of about PLN 3.5 billion, which did not go to the health system. Given the under-financing of the scheme due to the outbreak at that time, it was not intended, it was not economic. NIK, the Supreme Audit Chamber recommends that all the tasks of the Fund begin to be carried out without delay and thus that the health care system be funded by the funds collected in the fund's account. Of course, the Ministry declares that unused funds will be transferred to the following year. This means that there will be over PLN 7 billion to be transferred this year. It's been half a year, and we don't know anything. We do not know what this money is for, in what proportions, and above all when it will be transferred. Ladies and gentlemen! Our call is to amend this law and to plan the legislative process in a transparent way. Today is Father's Day. This money could be used by many children of fathers who have sick children, such as SMA. Today at the gallery we have representatives of parents of children with SMA: the mother of Jagodka, Kasia, who collects money. She raised 5 million zlotys, but she has to raise the second 5 million zlotys. There's money, unused money, and this kid's in intensive care. My voice breaks when I talk about it. There's money, everybody, this whole room has voted in agreement. How come the Ministry of Health doesn't know that this government can't dispose of that money? Why is it that negotiations are still ongoing on the refund of the most expensive drug in the world? There's money, it's the 21st century, we're in Europe, in a civilized world, and people have to beg on the streets, on the Internet, expose themselves to the public to raise money. Doesn't that hurt? I'm in a lot of pain. That is why I am joining a number of patient organisations present with the Ministry asking for urgent changes to the Medical Fund and effective spending of these funds. At the end of 2021, the Ministry of Health announced an amendment to the Act on the Medical Fund. This amendment was intended to extend funding for HPV vaccination, genetic diagnostics, molecular diagnostics in oncology, but unfortunately until today this project has not seen daylight. The Ministry, when we ask in interpellations, answers our questions very imprecisely. In our view it is necessary to work immediately on the amendment of the Act on the Medical Fund, so that the fund fulfils its tasks, provides actual assistance to Polish patients and improve access to diagnostics and treatment of the most difficult diseases. We want the patient's voice to be taken into account. The parents we talked to even have their time. They ask the Ministry to inform that they can participate in these various difficult conversations. We ask you to include this issue on behalf of our club, but above all on behalf of those small, sick patients who are waiting to be financed for their treatment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u144	Thank you very much, sir. I kindly ask you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Martin Martyniak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u145	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the Medical Fund is a long-term concept and this has been emphasised from the very beginning. Its time frame since 2021, when de facto in April the Medical Fund started to function really, by 2029 it has been allocated PLN 40 billion. There was a question here from the Member, what these funds have been spent on so far and what are the plans for the coming months and years. I'll try to answer the question in full. Firstly, as regards the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, whose budget for the period up to 2029 amounts to PLN 10 billion, a competition was launched on 1 December 2021 in support of paediatric hospitals with an allocation of PLN 2 billion and with the possibility of increasing it in a situation that will actually require it. As many as 25 strategic proposals have been submitted for PLN 4.4 billion. Hence, among others. the possibility of increasing this allocation from potential PLN 2 billion to PLN 4.4 billion. However, this will certainly not be the amount, because this would mean spending all the resources allocated for this year. So we are waiting for a final decision based on the analysis that is currently being made at the Ministry of Health. This call was a very comprehensive call, i.e. almost all the entities that we expected came to this competition from the strategic infrastructure sub-fund. This means that demand and some kind of need are as visible as possible here. As far as the assessment of the proposal is concerned, it is already in the final stage, it is finalized. Announcement of the ranking list will take place next month. I mean July. As regards the strategic infrastructure sub-fund plans, a competition for oncology support will be launched in the third quarter of this year. Also a 2-billion-dollar allocation, with the possibility of increasing depending on how the call list will evolve. This year, another strategic infrastructure sub-fund competition may be launched at the end of this year. And I would like to draw attention to one important thing here. The fact that the funds have not been spent this year or the previous year does not mean that this allocation will be digested, eaten or left for an indefinite purpose. These are multi-annual measures, infrastructure projects require a multi-annual timeframe. This is not a one-year investment for which we can spend funds, and at the end of the year show in the tables that these funds have been spent. As regards the second sub-fund, the sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities, whose allocation for the period up to the end of the Medical Fund amounts to PLN 7 billion, an investment programme for the modernisation of medicinal entities, which is currently at the stage of the legislative process, has been developed, of course, by means of a resolution of the Council of Ministers. It awaits its turn in the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and the procedure within that body. The entry into force of this resolution provides for the announcement of further competitions. These will be multi-million-dollar, 350-million-dollar allocations for the modernisation of hospital emergency services and airports related to the operation of SORs. With regard to plans for the next two years for the sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities, this is the spending of almost PLN 350 million and 700 million to support the development of the infrastructure for the provision of care and medical services. This is also intended to be intended for the modernisation of hospital beds. Another, third sub-fund, sub-fund for prevention development. This is a sub-fund with an allocation value of PLN 1 billion for this period. Here we can really lean on some of the problems that have arisen in particular during the pandemic period and which, unfortunately, concern the lack of public interest and focus more on current health than in the area of prevention. For this reason, following analyses within the Ministry of Health, these recruitments were shifted to a post-pandemic period. At the moment, we are back to working on the possibilities of the competition. For this reason, among other things - the Medical Fund, as you rightly pointed out, is a project initiated by the President - and for the need to analyze the development of the area of prevention was launched less than two weeks ago a Healthy Life Programme under the patronage of the President in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, PZU and the Ministry of State Acts. At the same time, I declare that this year there will still be a competition for preventive actions under the preventive development sub-fund. The fourth sub-fund, the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund, which here, from what he has presented, raises the greatest emotions - 14 billion PLN for the next few years. In 2021, this fund financed benefits to persons up to the age of 18, i.e. pediatric, in the range of PLN 527 million. In 2021, I stress, the pandemic year. As for 2022, I quarter, 3 months - 275 million. It's easy to calculate it's going to be over a billion zlotys this year. With regard to issues related to the provision of benefits, the funding of healthcare services provided outside the country, in 2021 it was in the order of PLN 61 million. What was the point, ladies and gentlemen? This was due to the fact that health systems in other countries have also been knocked down, simply. Pre-established deadlines have been refused, and therefore the extent to which these funds are spent is not different for 2021. However, if we look at the year 2022, what this dynamic looks like, we will see that by the end of May it was exactly 62 million. So we can expect double or even multiple funds to be spent on providing healthcare provided outside the country. What else was done under the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund? A list of high-innovation drug technologies has been developed. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a job that is a desk job that takes a few weeks. It's a necessity. reviewing all drug lists, this is a multi-month work that is aimed at the patient's well-being, because these medicines must be targeted and chosen as best as possible. This cannot be done in a very circumstantial and inaccurate manner. Within this list, five drug technologies used in rare diseases have been selected. Applications were also submitted for five medicines. The final payment was made for two of them. [[Voice from the room: What?]] I'll tell you what. These are Givlaari and Oxlumo. In addition, a second list has been drawn up in the field of TLI, of course according to the statutory term, where 11 drug technologies have already been developed. The Minister has already informed the responsible parties about which drug technologies are on this list and about the possibility of submitting an application. As far as rescue access is concerned, RDTL, in 2021 funds were transferred totalling nearly PLN 100 million. By comparison, we have a very similar result at the end of May. This is largely due to the fact that, at the end of 2020, when the RDTL procedure was amended, we have seen some increase in the old-fashioned application process. However, it should be emphasized here, it must be made clear that, under the new RDTL procedure, the time of obtaining such a medicine has been reduced by several hundred percent in some places, from a few months to even a week depending on which subject we are talking about. With regard to the plans for the future within this fourth sub-fund, we are on the right track - this thread was also raised by the Member - in talks with the President's office and (The bell) the talks are at the stage of the finalization of the revision of the Medical Fund Act. To put it this way, I would like to say that this fund is something that has not been in Poland so far... [[And there isn't.]] ...and its functioning shall be spread over the years until 2029. At the same time, I would like to stress that a large, large part of the allocation concerns infrastructure issues, and as I said at the outset, these funds cannot be spent within a year, because I cannot imagine that investments, even those worth more than PLN 300 million, will be implemented within one year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? In that case, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'd like to inform you that 42 people have signed up. Therefore, for everyone to be able to speak, I suggest we limit ourselves to one and a half minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, it's true that the fund's been operating for almost two years. Yes, it is true that we have many reservations about the activities of this fund, especially as regards the use of funds. But there are also rations, and it's not so small, on the minister's side. This is a fund with a drawing account, not a budget account, which is not a year by year, but in a 10-year perspective, and we need to remember that. Most of the tasks of these sub-funds, and there are four of them, are not of an ad hoc nature, because this fund is not of an ad hoc nature at all, sir. Of course, you can buy the most expensive drug in the world, at the highest price in the world, you can do it, but then don't go to the D.A.'s office and say that someone bought some respirators or anything, because all of a sudden, it's for the devil. That's one thing. There's always a procedure. It is based on pharmaceutical law, which is used to determine the price on the Polish market, and this is a long negotiation. Keep in mind, too, that it is not easy to negotiate a price with the other party. I am pleased that this fund will start, and I hope that what the Minister has presented to us will finally lead to the development of prevention in the areas of infrastructure, in the areas of modernisation of medicinal products. I also hope that these matters - especially orphan diseases, which are very difficult - will take the appropriate pace. I have a question for the Minister: Isn't it worth considering the revision of this fund? I mean, there's one thing I don't see right now. It's about the medical staff. With regard to medical personnel, and especially access to modern training - it requires a large infrastructure - it would be worth creating a subfund that would support medical universities, clinics...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u148	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u149	...to help young doctors, young nurses get specialized. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u150	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u151	Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time Poland ceased to be a country of drop.pl. It's about time we brought back the dignity of those parents who have to beg, beg, collect nuts to save their children. The medical fund was created to help sick children to help people with rare diseases to help children with cancer to finance original, rare therapies or operations abroad. That's why the fund was created. You guys made a toy out of this fund just to show that you spend more money on health care. The moment you hand over that money, year after year, you roll it. We were in control at the Ministry of Finance together with Mrs Monica Wielichowska. We learned that in 2022 money will also not be spent, and for the next year a total of 5.3 billion unused money will be spent... [[They roll, they roll.]] ...which will be rolled for another year. In this way, if we add up, in a few years it will turn out that a lot of money is intended for health, because it is not spent on what it should be spent on. It can't be that parents who have a child suffering from SMA are begging. [[He can't.]] It can't be that we have money, it just doesn't reach for it, because someone wants to build statistics on how much they spend next year on health care. It's a big scam. Poland cannot be a country of drop.pl. It is high time to use the money that is (the bell) for what they are destined for. And NIK makes it clear that the fact that four of the eight tasks of the fund have not been carried out proves the institutional weakness of the Ministry of Health - that you simply cannot do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u152	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start by saying that a few dozen million zlotys, which could be transferred to gene therapies for children with SMA each year, would not constitute a major damage to the state budget. Mrs. Marshal! As every year, in the annual tax account, taxpayers, including pensioners and people with disabilities - a wide group - could deduct the expenses they had incurred to buy drugs. Probably 2022 will be the last year they'll be able to count it down. So, Prime Minister, I would ask for a written reply: Will the people who have so far been able to benefit from this relief for drugs continue to benefit from it in 2023, at the end of this year, or will the records of the Polish Government eliminate the possibility of benefiting from this relief? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! To begin with, a symbolic question: When you were preparing to present this information, did you ask the President's Office to have someone from the President's Office today as well? As we can see, these seats are empty. In theory, it was the President's initiative that made this bill. I know how much you've helped write this bill and run it through Parliament. But wouldn't it be honorable for the President or his representative to be here today? And did you ask if anyone wanted to come here? You did not answer in the first round - I hope that in the second round you will answer the basic question: What is the specific number of patients who have so far benefited from the Medical Fund, how many drug therapies have so far been funded under the Medical Fund and how many patients currently benefit from new therapeutic options? I'm asking for a specific answer. If you are unable to present it today, please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u157	God bless you! I'm going back to the question I've been asking from that speaker, and I haven't gotten an answer. Questions about the biography of Minister Waldemar Kraski. [[Voice from the room: It's not about the subject.]] Who in this resort manages health, life, also the wealth of Poles, who makes decisions that weigh on the life and future of Poles, should not be a character without a biography. [[That's not the point, the medical fund information.]] And that character is Waldemar Kraska. In my generation, and the minister is a few years older than me, it is a wonder that the resume starts in 1989. Every one of us who remembers who had already survived as a grown-up or grown-up man of the 1980s had something to tell the world about which side he was on at the time. Waldemar Kraska does not answer questions. So I repeat it and ask for a written reply: What is the path of educational career, professional, scientific Waldemar Kraska before 1989? What kind of service did he serve? What kind of training did he have? What kind of uniform could he possibly be entitled to? His declaration (The Mirror Bell) was not properly verified by the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Either you're not verifying the corroboration statements, or...]] Mr President, please sit down and do not disturb me. Don't make this any harder than it is. Mr President, begin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Medical Fund doesn't work. He was supposed to be one of them. support for those who need therapy going beyond standard solutions, while in 2021 it remained 3.5 billion PLN. Question: "Is there too much money in health care?" No, it's not. The portals are full of collections for therapy, behind which are dramatic stories about health and misery also of young Poles and Poles. And that's particularly shocking. Mr President and the PiS government told Poles that human life was the most important thing to them. It turned out that they were missing the truth, because when it was necessary to save this life and health, to move from words to actions, the Members and Ministers of the PiS turned their eyes and kept 3.5 billion PLN in their accounts. For PLN 3.5 billion, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of treatments could be financed, perhaps thousands of lives and health could be saved, among others. 7-year-old Oli, 14-month-old Leosia or 3-year-old Kubuś. The PiS state has PLN 3.5 billion in their accounts. You looked away. Minister, today you represent all this power and tell us that everything is okay. But if it's so good, why are thousands of people begging for help on the portals? I just have one question: Isn't Law and Justice ashamed that you've turned your eyes (the bell) away from those sick children and adults who need so much support? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u160	Thank you, sir. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u161	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that health care after the periods of the Civic Platform, PSL, SLD was at such a level that immediate action had to be taken to save it. [[A voice from the room: Ooh... so much to say.]] Let me remind you that in 2015 you spent 74 billion PLN on health protection. [[But let's get back to the fund.]] Now there are over PLN 126 billion. He mentioned the programme that PSL was to implement in the case of the presidential election winnings. [[Don't bring politics into this. We're talking about serious stuff.]] Unfortunately, the inhabitants of Poland did not give a chance because they knew that you would not realize it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to discuss the medical fund in substance, please note that it is a 10-year programme. The Minister made it clear: PLN 40 billion per 10 years for strategic tasks, which will be carried out every year in four areas. Last year, for example. More than PLN 527 million were spent on the treatment of the children whom he spoke about at the start of this programme. More than PLN 2 billion was also spent on the modernisation of paediatric hospitals. [[Child psychiatry is a fact.]] The next steps are far advanced. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not just to add money, which, of course, you have spoken of many times, but it is only necessary to spend this money wisely. That's why hospitals need to get ready. [[Voice from the hall: Zdrótka.pl.]] As a long-term hospital director, I know that strategic actions require time (the bell) and hospital directors must have the time to prepare such projects that will give concrete results. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The creation of the Medical Fund had a completely different basis than the concern of the authorities for the health safety of Poles and Poles. He was supposed to be a cure for the waves of criticism, he was the answer to the president's mist-shattering accident and a transfer of PLN 2 billion to Kurski's TV instead of the fight against cancer. Well, it sounded really good in the campaign, it sounded really good PR, but today parents still have to raise money for their children's treatment, although PiS promised it would be different. It is not only that there is no extra money in the budget of the Ministry of Health, but the ones that have been transferred to the fund are simply rolled. The facts are that in 2021 only 21% of the entire 4-billion-dollar budget was spent from the Medical Fund. Therefore, attention was not used 3.5 billion PLN. The Ministry of Health, of course, assures that unused funds are to be transferred to the following year, which means that this year there will be over PLN 7 billion to be committed. The facts are that few patients today have benefited from the treatment of modern therapies from the fund. This is linked to both the part-expenditure of funds placed in this fund and the long-term decision-making process, which unfortunately delays patients' access to treatment. I have questions to the Minister: How many patients today have benefited from the refund of the most modern therapy under the fund? What is the planned allocation of funds that are left over from previous years? Why is it difficult to apply for such a refund (the Bell) and creates unnecessary delays in patients' access to treatment? The Member said that the programme was planned for 10 years. Madame, many children will not live to see this. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u164	Thank you, Member. Please respect the opportunity of other Members to speak as well. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In September 2020, the Sejm passed a law on the Medical Fund in which huge money was guaranteed to the government for the earliest detection and treatment of civilizational diseases, including cancer, rare diseases. And what did the Ministry do for such gigantic money? Pretty much nothing, because by September 2021, with 6 billion, it spent PLN 170 million. When parents, doctors, parliamentarians asked and begged the Minister of Health and the government to fund someone's expensive therapy and save lives, they always heard a mantra that the government didn't have money, because if they had money, they would give it. Now the government has that money, but it doesn't give it to severely ill patients, because for some politicians, a patient is a cost and a problem in statistics, not a man in need of help. I call on the Minister of Health to explain to the patients and families of these patients, including those families who, unfortunately, have not received the treatment of their children, why the money provided to the Minister for their treatment has not been used and wasted. This is an outrage. I believe that the Act on the Medical Fund should be implemented by the Sejm Committee, which will supervise the spending of this money. Ten years - some children will not live to see it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the first time we've heard that this program is 10 years old. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u166	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When we decided to create the Medical Fund, we wanted to help people first, to help those who unfortunately still have to collect these funds in various kinds of collections, knowing that time was the most important thing for them. I have a question, Minister. Please provide information on the negotiations with the company with this drug. How long did it last? Have patients had any opportunity to comment in the process of negotiating the environment? Why were they interrupted? When can we count on them to be restored? Can this be done more quickly, more effectively in other countries? In Poland, as usual, we have a problem. We've got $3.5 billion. That's 3.5 billion shame, because that money should just work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u168	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! How dare you compare your parents' struggle to raise funds for the world's most expensive drug with a drug that one of your colleagues has done in connection with ventilators or masks, in which case do you have evident evidence from the Supreme Auditorium about how gigantic this was a scam? How dare you say such a thing from that bleacher? This fund was supposed to improve patients with rare diseases. [[He's improved.]] Why only 21% were spent in 2021 budget? Why was only one of the four sub-funds spent? What were the personal costs of managing this fund at that time? Why was this passed? To help people. These people are fighting for their children's health. They're not allowed to say it's the same as a respirator drug deal as a masked drug dealer. A little decency.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u170	That's the decency. Let's really not play with children's misfortune. [[It is not your role to comment on Members' speeches.]] [[Speak up, ma'am.]] Sure. And you're just playing with the misfortune of kids waiting for money. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I wanted to thank the club that reported this current information because this is a very important topic. It even started substantively in contrast to previous information that were from different clubs. The subject is very important. I hope that today our debate here on this subject will return to the right track, that we will be talking substantively, because we are talking about a very, very important problem. We see these misfortunes that happen in different families, in children, in adults, in these tragedies. This fund, these regulations, we've prepared just to help limit the collection by the Scotch. That's the pl you're talking about. Yeah, limit it, 'cause I don't think any country could take it completely, 'cause we're talking about a lot of money. There's a lot of tragedy that we're witnessing. But you have to look at this problem comprehensively, look closely at the Medical Fund and these regulations, look at health care even more comprehensively, look at it (the bell), which prevents someone from healing, looking at medical infrastructure. This infrastructure is built. Probably the most important thing is the staff. Today we have passed the raises law completely, but we also need to think about education. Education and specialisation do not last 1 year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u172	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You started first of all with the sub-fund, not primarily, but simply, in turn, with the sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals. My question: Why was this announced only in December 2021? So you actually had the whole year to set the criteria, the beneficiaries. There was no need for great preparation here, because hospitals weren't preparing for this, only you were preparing to announce the competition. This is a competition that was created for hospitals not only for paediatric patients, but also qualified to levels four, fifth and sixth. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: When will the other hospitals at level one, two and three be able to benefit from this Medical Fund, too, because it was said that it was for the modernisation of all hospitals? But from what you can see here, if they rise again for oncology, who will be the beneficiary in this case? That's the question. Unfortunately, the situation is repeated that beneficiaries are almost always the same and they are beneficiaries who are not hospitals, as I said, from the first, second and third levels. So that I ask you to answer the questions in this regard. I still have a request for the Minister. In addition to what will be 10 years from now (the bell), 2 years have passed, it is important what is here and now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u174	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a scene in front of me like John Paul II was dying and he couldn't breathe. The doctor then said, "We're going to do a simple procedure - a tracheotomy, or an intersection, so that the pope can breathe." And the Pope said, "To whom simple, for whom simple." The same is true when I hear the Minister saying we have until 2029. We have time and it's simple, but it's not easy for those who don't have time. It's just a scandal to have billions of zlotys, not help people, families who need help. Telling here that this is some kind of attack, that this is some kind of idea that there's no room for, because this is politics... What kind of politics? You have no competence or no way to spend that money wisely. The minister says they need to go through some stuff for a few months. What else are you doing? What else do you have to do if you don't look at all these applications and react properly? This is an outrage. It's ridiculous to say that all this can be moved. I understand that there is no money that we can look for money, but if there are billions, and we can't help people, we can't teach doctors what they're doing (the bell) abroad, we can't bring in the right equipment, that's what I don't have any words for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u176	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. I can't see. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. There isn't. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about a very sensitive and important medical fund. I am just a person who has been president of a non-governmental organization for many years, who has collected hundreds of thousands of zlotys in various kinds of collections and transferred to the treatment of children. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't remember the last 15 years that I've been running this organization, this fund was created in the days of my predecessors at all. I don't remember discussing it at all. And when we, the Minister, the President, come up with the idea that there will be extra money, the fund is being created, there is a pandemic in October 2020, and so a powerful fund has to be equipped with statutes, regulations... [[For a year, write the statute.]] ...because later you will say that they bought masks unnecessarily, that they were not certified, then some duets will go to check, duets and trios, and so on, and they will play in ministries, they will disturb... Then there's no time to look at these conclusions because you're both bothering. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fund is very important. Let's get back to the point. He is to heal in terms of health and save human health. Minister! We're proud of it. My question goes in that direction. Now there is a location for this fund of 4200 million a year. Are you planning this amount until 2029, because it is large but not enough, we still need even more resources (the Bell) because, my fellow Member States, this is a drop in the small ocean, but this ocean is bigger? That's why we have to help another man. Let's focus on it, not politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u178	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Minister, you're not here! High Izbo! The fund has actually been created, but unfortunately it does not work. The fund has been created and since 2020 there has been PLN 3.5 billion left on this fund, an additional PLN 4 billion this year, and will therefore amount to PLN 7.5 billion. Four sub-funds have been created in this fund. These are: the preventive development sub-fund - from the beginning of 2020 0 PLN has been spent from this sub-fund, the modernisation sub-fund of medical entities - from the beginning 0 PLN has been spent, the strategic infrastructure sub-fund - from the beginning 0 PLN has been spent. Meanwhile, thousands, hundreds, millions of people, Poles, are waiting for medical help. There were also studies in the prevention subfund for oncology prevention. I just want to talk about one vaccine against HPV, which is the human papilloma virus responsible for cervical cancer. Ladies and gentlemen, we are one of the few countries in Europe and in the world where the number of cervical cancer patients is increasing. [[Because people don't test themselves.]] In 2020 3862 patients died, 2137. If we were to vaccinate what was promised in the Medical Fund, children, girls and boys, this problem would end. We are a country where doctors from all over the world come and can watch cervical cancer (the bell) not in pictures, not in atlases, but live, and it is drama, it is a failure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u180	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u181	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Unlimited benefits in pediatrics are a pillar of the Medical Fund. We planned to spend about 600,000 a year on this. zł. Do you think that the question of a pandemic last year, which was practically the first year of the Medical Fund, was the reason that operators did not reach for these funds? The second important point is that when it comes to emergency access to drug technologies, once again we have the situation that small entities do not reach for these measures, while large entities do not actually exceed the 3% limit on their drug programmes. There were plans of the Ministry of Health to increase this limit to these large entities, so that they could exceed 3%. Have you made any decisions on this matter? Have you made any decisions to encourage national consultants to use the fund? There's another case. Investments always run, we know that. In fact, it can be said that in the final phase, after 2 years, the need for resources is particularly high for investments. Therefore, since we are gathering these unused funds at the moment (the bell), is it possible to assume that the demand for these funds in two years' time for investment purposes will be greater than the current receipts of the fund, so that these funds will still be used for a good purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u182	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You've created a fund that's supposed to theoretically help, theoretically it's supposed to give you the opportunity to finance very expensive drugs, very expensive therapies. But in the years 2020-2021 you did not use PLN 3.5 billion. That means there is PLN 7.5 billion to be used this year. That's a lot of money. Minister! I have a question: How much money will be used this year? What amounts will be spent this year under the Medical Fund? I also have a difficult question. It's about kids with SMAs. Parents collecting more money, more gold, more millions. VAT issue: 8%. Are you going to do anything to allow your parents not to raise another million zlotys for very expensive therapies that save the lives and health of their children so that they can simply abolish this tax? It's awfully unfair that first of all, drugs are not refunded under the Medical Fund, and second of all, you've added tax. 0% The tax will make it a little easier for them to collect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u184	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Medical Fund is of course incredibly important. It was created under the rule of law and justice. It is planned to introduce voluntary vaccination against HPV virus, which causes cervical cancer, at the beginning of 2023. It is the second in terms of incidence, after breast cancer, of malignant cancer in women in the world, and in Poland there are about 3,000. Cervical cancer every year. Half of those sick Poles are dying. It is said that the health department has prepared a draft amendment which assumes that the Medical Fund will also be able to finance vaccinations, including vaccinations against HPV. I'd like to present the details of this amendment. The second point I want to ask you is that the most innovative therapies are financed by the Medical Fund, which guarantees a shorter time from the time of registration in the European Union to the time of its refund in Poland. I'm asking you to show me your refund path. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We're talking about the medical fund today, the ghost fund. Today is a sad day for patients and health professionals. The PiS rejected the Senate's amendments from yesterday, which concerned increases for health workers. It's a sad day for all health professionals. It's a sad day for patients who were hoping that medications for rare diseases would be refunded from the Medical Fund. The parents of these children, e.g. Children with SMA, beggars, make dropouts to raise 9 million to save their children. Unfortunately, the rulers did not think of sick children. For 2 years, 680 million PLN was spent on the fund from 6 billion PLN. The remaining PLN 3.5 billion. There will be 4 billion zlotys this year. Kurski's television received PLN 2 billion each year and spent the money. Nobody's report confirms the allegations that the Medical Fund did not draw up a material and financial plan in 2021. Nor has there been recruitment for sub-funds for the modernisation of medicinal entities, strategic infrastructure and the development of prevention. The PiS state today says you need to talk. No, we have to save people today. There is no need to make scams, such as the issue of Polish sewing houses for 20 million (The Bell) or the issue of ventilators for 40 million. Dear Parents! The ruling crew is working on it. You, not the health of your children. This team needs to be warmly thanked. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u188	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u189	And your marshal dedicates... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u190	Member, please leave the speakerium and do not take up time. You're making it difficult for the Sejm to sit. Get off the stand, or I'll tell you what you've been doing for a long time. [[I'm not afraid of you. You're abusing your power.]] I know, because you think you're slow more than anyone else. Don't yell. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For the first time, the Medical Fund was created. The opposition, as always, criticizes and speaks untruths, and has done nothing about it. Ladies and gentlemen! Begin to respect those who take good action for health care. Let's do it together. It'll be much better then. For the first time, an oncology strategy was established. You didn't do it. As far as the strategy for rare diseases is concerned, after 12 years, the current government and the Ministry of Health led to the finals. When it comes to screening of SMAs, we have heard in the discussion not true. We jumped over Europe. These children have a decent life, and their parents are cared for. [[There they are. You can go to them and tell them.]] You do not participate in conversations in teams and you do not create the law, so you are not aware. That's the situation, and that's the truth. First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for the fact that, thanks to the financing decisions, we are restoring the dignity of the patients and families who take care of them. Minister! I have a question. Subaccounts are created. These are four subaccounts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there gonna be extras? How will you use these subaccounts? First of all, this is meant to serve patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u192	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u193	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two beautiful girls, Blueberry and Zosia (Applause), fight for health and life. Their parents, carers, local communities are fighting for their health and their lives. It's a serious disease. That's what we need to talk about. We need to support families because we can't count on the Medical Fund. The Medical Fund was promised to patients, it was guaranteed to treat these children. They're just two pretty girls who want to live. There are so many more children like that. From 6% to 8% the population has a diagnosis of a rare disease that is characterised by a severe course of action and which may be life-threatening or cause deep chronic disability. Ladies and gentlemen! Rare diseases are most often genetically dependent. One of them is the SMA. Because of the genetic defect, the spinal cord gradually dies of neurons responsible for muscle spasms in infants. In children, the first symptoms appear within a few days of birth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're getting worse every day. Gene therapy provides these children with salvation and a chance for a normal life. The sooner the child gets the medicine, the sooner it can be cured and the less devastation the disease in his system will cause. 3.5 billion from the Medical Fund are 350 children (Applause) who could protect themselves from this disease. Let's remember that. It's a symbol. [[You're confusing this fund with the subfund. But what to expect from a person so muddy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u195	Who's sloppy? Think about it. Don't insult the parents who are there. Tell them that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u196	Madam, excuse me, please give the opportunity to another... Member, please. The subject is difficult. It requires empathy, not screaming. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's June 23rd, Father's Day. For this reason, I wish all my fathers and fathers every prosperity and health for them and their children. I'm saying this because it's my first Father's Day. On 4 May, Jas Rychlik was born in the district hospital in Wieluń, which was placed, just like every child born in Poland, screening tests, which did not have the chance. newborns in the days of the Civic Platform. It's about phenylketonuria, adrenal hypertrophy, or spinal muscle atrophy. These are compulsory researches, which have been carried out in Poland for several dozen months. This shows how important it is, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, diagnostics. I would like to ask if the scope of these studies will be extended to include further diseases in the near future. Often the spinal muscle atrophy, or SMA, this dramatic, tragic disease, is used cynically by the opposition as an example. I would like to ask how many children have benefited from the Medical Fund, from the available therapy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth recalling that the Supreme Audit Chamber has given a negative opinion on the implementation of the Medical Fund budget. This is very important information for us. The second very important information relates to the amount of healthcare provided to recipients outside the country. Ladies and gentlemen, it was only 60 988 thousand. zł. The High House remembers the case of an arms dealer and remembers the amount at the moment that he is behind at the Ministry of Health. This is an amount above PLN 60 million. On 9 December 2020, the arms dealer left Poland. It was not until March 21st of this year that Ziobra's office issued an APB after him. We don't know where he is, we don't know what's going on with him, we don't know if he's trying to track him down in any way. This is a time when very different things can happen. We're dealing with a man who was in a communist interview who could fake his death, maybe change his identity, and he'll never be questioned by the D.A.'s office. I also demand information on this matter. But what is most important in this case is that in 2021 an amount of PLN 1 837 612 was foreseen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only 37.4% of this plan was spent...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u200	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u201	Really use your resources...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u202	Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u203	...because our parents ask for our support every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, please do not deceive the public that we are dealing with a list of medications and patients. It's not like that. The Medical Fund, which was established in the end of 2020, was operational in 2021. Of course, it didn't spend $4 billion, but it's not like you write a prescription and give a drug to a patient. That's not true. The fact is, there's a lot of need, but there's a lot of complicated procedure. The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarifications is important because the notification of the product, its redemption, its intended purpose for a given disease is a complicated procedure. I want to ask you to... No one has also written that these procedures are very complicated, and it is not as common diseases are being treated. Needs are huge. What are the procedures, the path from the patient to the patient of this medicine? Your Member used the name of the Siepopra portal. I wanted to ask you if you're using this portal to help patients, because I'm using and sending the amounts they're asking for. [[For a long time, ma'am.]] Well, that's great. We can congratulate each other. We can congratulate each other. He can't help all patients with the Medical Fund, even if he has 10 billion, because there are a lot of these needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u206	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u208	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the Medical Fund - at first it seemed so - was a great hope for many desperate parents who fight for the future of their sick children every day. I, too, wanted to address on behalf of all the parents whose children are suffering from SMA. It's a terrible disease, but it's also a big challenge, because these parents were actually left to themselves. Unfortunately, the government has not made and does not make a decision on the refund of this medicine, and the 9 million, and at the moment nearly 10 million, which I am about to talk about, is an amazing challenge. With great respect, because often as parliamentarians we join these actions, I look at a chain of good will, good people who organize festivals, gatherings to help. Minister! If this drug is not refunded at the moment, you should do so, even after what happened on May 16th. Unfortunately, this drug, the most expensive drug in the world, is again covered by the 8% VAT rate, with more than 9 million. My parents got another punch in the back because they have to raise an extra 700,000. Or 800,000. zł. If there's no refund right now, then you need it. As soon as possible, embrace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you can make sure that these most expensive treatments are not covered by this rate right now. [[Applause]] This is absolutely disgraceful and it should be changed immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u210	Thank you. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The aim of the establishment of the Medical Fund was to create additional funding opportunities, additional sources of funding for various health measures: prevention, diagnosis and treatment. The resources available to the Medical Fund are considerable. They have not yet been fully exploited, but we know that they are moving on to the next period. My question concerns the scope of further action. Minister, will any of the funding areas covered by the Medical Fund's objective be particularly high priority for the Ministry of Health in the coming months? [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u212	Thank you, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When President Andrzej Duda announced during the election campaign that he would submit a bill on the Medical Fund, I thought: this is a brilliant move. Because we all watched social media, but also traditional ads, families called for a fund-raiser to help their loved ones who got into health problems. Such an experience is in any case a small war. Such a small conflict as we are now seeing in Ukraine. That's when time counts, every moment. We read the information of NIK, which shows that PLN 3.5 billion was not used last year, which means that we are not helping in this fight, we are not helping in this war. It's as if we today, looking at Ukraine's struggle, didn't send ammunition, didn't send lightning, didn't send crabs. It's dyspnoea, it's a lack of empathy, it's a lack of heart. Urgent action is needed here, not only 3.5 billion, but also an additional 4 billion, which is this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u214	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today in the Sejm, we are discussing a very important subject concerning health care, including rare diseases. I wanted to highlight a very important point: that the Government of Law and Justice, as the only government after 1989, has made major breakthrough changes in health care and in the context of the increase in funding for healthcare in various areas. From 2015 to today, this increase in expenditure amounted to about 90 billion. A number of different types of programmes have been implemented under these increased expenditures, e.g. That's the fund right there. Minister, I have a question about this. From the perspective of the Ministry of Health, what is the functioning of the Board of the Fund, which has been appointed to work for advisory purposes? Does the intensity of the Council's work ensure the effective implementation of the advisory role and what does it look like from the perspective of the Ministry of Health? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u217	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every day thousands of families fight for their children's lives. Many adults fight for their lives every day. They experience everyday dramas. They're not statistics. These are real situations, problems, shed tears and lost hopes. Poles take part in public fundraisers. They collect for children with SMAs, cancers and many, many others. They're handing over resources, they're fighting. And what does PiS do during that time? Kisi billions in the Medical Fund. At the moment, almost PLN 7 billion has already been frozen after 3.5 billion in the past year. PiS explains he has time to spend that money. Then please tell that to those parents and those sick kids. Tell that to those who do not have time, for which time has a specific dimension, for which time can often be bought for millions of zlotys. This money is in the budget - it's frozen, but it is. And please, I appeal - we can, you can change that. [[You have to.]] It's not politics - it's saving lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u218	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't think there's an MP in this room who wouldn't meet with a situation in his office that some parents or other people wouldn't come to, people who are just asking for some kind of support. People like that have come to my office many times. Well, I wanted to ask, because on the one hand there are these medicines - rare, individual - on the other hand there is the question of choosing these medicines. I'm not a doctor, so it's hard for me to say. Sometimes these people insist on some drug, they say it's better, and it's worse. What does it look like, this issue of these rare drugs? And the second question, if possible, is the question of this fund, but in a more regional area of action. What are the Ministry's predictions about the possibility of influencing centres? Not only for the Warsaw Centre (Dzwonek), but also for those centres which are more distant from Warsaw? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u220	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In recent times, hospital units in many hospitals have been rapidly removed, e.g. Kowary - gynaecology and obstetrics and surgery, Shooting - gynaecology and obstetrics, Ząbkowice Śląskie etc. The hospital in Kowary provided services not only for the inhabitants of Kowar, but also for the entire Krkonoše district and thousands of tourists staying in the Krkonoše. There are doctors in this hospital, nurses, and the level of treatment and care is assessed high. Nevertheless, it is decided to limit his activity. The voivodship hospital in Jelenia Góra has been under-contracting with the National Health Fund for years and is unable to provide treatment for the inhabitants of Kowar, the Krkonoše district and all the tourists in need. How long will it take for the SOR to provide emergency assistance? And that's how it is in the mountains. The residents of Kowar are very concerned about the decision of hospital owners to significantly reduce their activities - the hospital, which has always been the place of their treatment and medical care. The lack of money or the insufficient amount of money may not be the main reason for the reduction of activity. Why is it not taken into account that the operation of the hospital is a basic requirement for medical safety rather than ordinary commercial activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is there no medical support in situations like the one at the hospital in Kowary? I appeal to the Minister of Health for help for this hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Dominika Chorosińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The pandemic situation has led to a significant deterioration in both children and young people's mental health. We're dealing with personnel problems in the area of child psychiatry. My question to the Minister: Can the medical fund be used to create additional psychiatric centres and train staff? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u224	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The medical fund criticism didn't come out of nowhere. The biggest controversy is that the money from it is not fully used, but is frozen and transferred to the following financial year. For example, in 2020 only PLN 171 million was spent from the Medical Fund and PLN 687 million was spent in 2021. This is evidence of the weakness of the Ministry of Health and poor management. If you do not know what to spend unused money on the health and life of Poles, special attention should be paid to rare diseases. The gene therapy of SMA can be mentioned as an example. It is a non-refundable medicine in Poland, the cost of which exceeds 9 million PLN. Since May 16, this treatment is even more expensive, as with the end of the epidemic in Poland 8% returned VAT on certain medicines. Parents of SMA patient Wiktorek Szczechowiak from my region, from the Hungarian Górka commune this change will cost another 700,000. zł. It's another log thrown under the feet of parents of children with spinal muscle atrophy. What prevents unused funds from the Medical Fund from being used to treat rare diseases in Poland? Will there be (the bell) provision for money from the Medical Fund for gene therapy SMA? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The strategic actions on the additional sources of funding that we are discussing today require time and, above all, peace of mind. Peace, which has been guaranteed for several years by the trust of our voters is the Polish government. Thanks to this, we are effectively raising expenditures and repairing Polish health care step by step. A difficult task, but under our rule, as you can see, possible. I thank the Minister for his speech today, and above all, as I said, for the calming that the Minister is introducing today, but above all, a vision for the recovery of the health system. I have the following question for the Minister: Is the Ministry of Health planning to submit proposals for new investment programmes to the Council of Ministers in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u228	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have specific questions about two diseases. cystic fibrosis - there is an action since 1 March, the patients receive medication, with two problems. For $1,000. For the time being, only 100 people receive a drug refund, and that's not much, although they all applied quickly. What's the reason? And a big request from the environment, because right now they've had drugs for children since they were 12 years old. It's a genetic disease, and the sooner it works, the natural prognosis is better. There is a request - already made with you - to refund from the sixth year of life. What's the ministry's position? Of course, it's about Kaftrio, the most effective one. There's a expectation it's gonna be this drug. Question about the second disease, hemoglobinuria. Soliris. In both cases, I wrote an interpellation. In the case of hemoglobinuria, I have received an answer that will be refunded, but from what I know, I don't think it is yet. And a specific question: Is there a refund already? It is a rare disease (the bell), it affects only about 80 people in Poland, young people aged 25-40. It is therefore very important that this is refunded as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u230	Thank you very much. I wanted to welcome students and teachers from the primary school in Skórów from the municipality of Potęgowo. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] And now Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, thank you for letting me speak, because I was in a committee meeting earlier, where I was a referee. I recall the very important words of the President of Poland when this initiative was created. This will serve, as the President said, the protection of children who have so far been left outside the framework of the National Health Fund due to rare or rare oncology diseases, including the mentioned SMA disease. We have all given great importance to this, that this is the new source, which gives us some hope. Don't be surprised, Minister, I listened to your answer, which of course shows a lot of elements of goodwill on your part, but don't be surprised that if there is 3.5 billion PLN, and here is the pressure, as you have heard, from different sides to the parliamentary offices and also to us personally, that we ask what can be done in this matter, what programs you have. What recommendations e.g. Does he have a fund board on this? It would be good to hear whether the Fund Board is proposing any recommendations on this matter. Did you also wish to inform the State of this fund, e.g. County hospitals? What, so to speak, on the one hand, are the programmes financed and, on the other hand, what tasks would you like to launch in the future? It would also be a very good effect, I would say, propaganda, that's not the name of it, but informational (Bingle) for the basic level, where patients come into contact with health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank every parliamentarians, every Member and every Member who took part in this very important discussion very warmly. Thank you to those who have appreciated the importance of the subject we are discussing. I'm filled with hope that it will result in good changes that will save many lives. I would like to thank Members for these interesting questions which touch on the point of our debate. When the fund was created, hope arose. Today, for every disease, time counts. This was discussed by both Mr Rusiecki and Mr Dyduch. That's an extremely accurate definition of the problem we're dealing with. These problems grew, new problems arose. This was mentioned by Mr Rutnicki, Mrs Rosa, but also by Mrs Flenek. They were talking about procedures and collection tax. We believe that this should at least be the first signal from the government. As it was successfully eliminated during the pandemic, it should also be eliminated today - until negotiations with companies on the refund of this so-called one are completed. The most expensive drug in the world, a cure for SMA. Procedures for the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification should also be amended. They need to be changed quickly, because time and hope play an extremely important role. The negotiations were mentioned by Mr Jarosław Rzep. I thank him for paying attention to this issue, because I think that we Poles are not worse than other nations. We can negotiate, and I hope that this skill is also available to those who sit in government, who work at the Ministry of Health. This was an interesting question - that is, from Members of the PiS - that was a statement - whether the Medical Fund is an additional stream of financing for health protection. Member of the Polish Coalition - PSL Andrzej Grzyb asked the question: Is it really an additional stream of money? In my opinion, the Ministry of Health has included part of the medical fund's resources in the total budget of the National Health Fund for the reimbursement of medicines. According to the announcements under the Medical Fund, genetic and molecular diagnostics are to be financed. The same task was included in the Rare Diseases Plan mentioned here. Is the aim of the project de facto to finance other commitments that the government has towards patients? According to the announcement, the diagnosis is only intended to cover the population of children. During this debate, I was asked what happened to adults. This is also an extremely important problem that patient organisations are talking about. They clearly indicate that this is discrimination, and with this pool of unused funds there is no need for artificial restrictions. In the first phase of this discussion, I had a question. I would ask you to answer that question in writing. It has gone gently in this discussion. It's about the Medical Fund Board. How much has this advice cost so far? How many meetings of this counsel were held? What was the effect of the Council's findings, and where does this council meet? I was informed that there were away meetings of this council. What are the main effects of her work? Members asked: What recommendations did the council make? This is extremely important to me. I would like to ask for a wide range of information on the activities of this council. We ask for all children suffering from rare diseases, for those children who for various reasons have no access to therapy. The ten years we've been talking about here... Today counts every minute, every hour, every week. I ask you very much on behalf of all those Members who have initiated this debate today, but also asked questions, that they should take this into account, because time counts very much, and this is particularly what children with SMAs are waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u234	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marcin Martyniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u235	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that there have been rather polarising terms about the Medical Fund. On the one hand, there was hope which broke through in Mr Klimczak's last statement, but there were also phrases such as a spectrum fund or even a toy. I am going to ask this rhetorically: Do you think that one million and six hundred benefits funded by the Medical Fund in 2021 alone is a public benefit, a toy element? I don't think so. And that's the answer to a few questions that have been going through here. How many of these patients were there? In 2021 we have one million and six hundred children's benefits at more than half a billion zlotys. As regards the SMA, which has very often been in your Members' statements and questions, I strongly and unambiguously want to stress that all children with spinal muscle atrophy in Poland are being treated. This is Spinraza. This is not enough - it was in Mrs Dziuk's speech - that we are indeed at the top of the European agenda when it comes to screening. It's not a country that's doing any screening on SMA. This too needs to be addressed and special attention must be paid to it. There is no SMA child in Poland who is not treated. That's the first line. Second question: we catch every case of this type of disease, this type of disease, colloquially speaking. This is, of course, a marginal percentage, because for 188 thousand, if I remember correctly, children tested in 2021 were about 50 people, 50 children, as in a few countries in Europe, I emphasize. I'm moving on. [[What about the VAT?]] I'll tell you what's going on with VAT. VAT was introduced for a pandemic period for all medicines from collections. When we moved to an epidemic threat, the Minister of Finance's decision was repealed. [[That's what we know. What are we gonna do about it?]] There was also information about the NIK report. I would ask you very much to draw attention to one point. Namely, it is strange that here at least some Members have not said a word about the formulation of the proposal which NIK has made in his report. Let me quote it: NIK notes the effort made to ensure the organizational and personal preparation of the Ministry of Health for these tasks, in particular by developing and preparing procedures for the operation of individual sub-fund, carrying out recruitment procedures for the newly established Faculty of the Medical Fund of the Department of Investment Assessment of the Ministry of Health, which involved the need to carry out analyses as well as planning and conceptual work and contacts with stakeholders. It was also a question of what really happened during that time. I'll tell you what. First of all, we were fighting COVID. That, too, needs to be made clear. It wasn't just that the Medical Fund was about the employees of the Ministry of Health. No, we acted on the principle: all hands on deck. It seems to me that this fact is also worth mentioning. There was a question one of the Members asked, as far as I remember, what we did during that time and why the competitions lasted so long. Let me quote the path that concerns the strategic investment subfund: preparation of competition documentation, evaluation criteria, rules of competitions and contract designs, carrying out recruitments, conclusions, evaluation of proposals submitted, procedure for establishing individual investments by means of resolutions of the Council of Ministers, concluding agreements with investors by the Ministry of Health, announcing by investors individual procedures in the field of works contractors, execution of works and only at the end of payment by investors. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a chain that unfortunately takes time. As I said during my first speech, investment processes are ongoing. There was also a question about multiplying and consummating funds that were not issued. Yeah, absolutely. That's what I was talking about when it comes to de facto three infrastructure competitions. These measures, which are spread over the following years, will be consumed. We cannot therefore talk about the total suspension of spending from the Medical Fund. Mrs Czernow asked about hospitals. These two hospitals are private hospitals, so there's some kind of other autonomy in the operation and management of the departments that you own. That's what I leave in charge of these particular hospitals. The question was whether the Medical Fund would also focus on other areas of support. As far as the development of the sub-fund itself is concerned, no, but in the proposed amendment of the law, which I hope will soon be presented to the public, we have a planned development of certain areas. As far as staff are concerned, these staff will be financed from other sources, as well as mental health centres, for which there is also a comprehensive plan, colloquially speaking, interlocking. Mr Duszek asked about the proposal for new investment programmes. It's SMPL. Within the framework of SMPL there are SORs and landing sites which coincide with these SORs. Within the framework of this project, which will soon, I hope, as I said in my previous speech, will be sitting at the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers, we can expect further action. As for Mrs Banaszek's question about our priorities under the Medical Fund, it is oncology. This one has, among other things, in the future. serve the announced competition in the third quarter of 2022 for the support of oncology-oriented medicinal entities. There were questions about the Medical Fund Board. Yes, the Medical Fund Board, which is an expert and advisory body for the Medical Fund, is in direct and constant contact with the Ministry of Health and the President's Office. These meetings shall be held regularly. They are of a substantive and expert nature, I stress: substantive and expert, because there have been some suggestions about this, so I refer to it in a clear and direct way. All recommendations made by the Council are later discussed not only within the Ministry of Health but also in discussions with representatives of the President's Office. The vast majority of them are being implemented. There are, among others. the oncology competition, which I mentioned just moments ago, within the SIS sub-fund. There was also a question about levels and support for hospitals from the first to the third level. Indeed, the strategic investment sub-fund is more focused on reference centres. On the other hand, as regards medicinal products for these levels from the first to the third, a sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal products is dedicated. To this subfund - in a moment, I hope, this contest will appear if the Council of Ministers adopts this resolution - such hospitals will be able to apply. There was also a question of negotiations with the producer of Zolgensma, because I will return with a buckle composition until the beginning of my speech. These negotiations are ongoing. Yesterday, there was a meeting of the Economic Commission on which this topic was also discussed. Therefore, please refrain from doing so. At the same time, I stress that all SMA patients are provided with Spinraza treatment. I will not refer to non-essential questions which do not concern the issue of today's current information. The Ministry of Health will, of course, answer all questions for which a request for written answers has been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u236	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Among the Members of the Seym opposition there is a belief that funds from the Medical Fund are spent to too little extent, especially for financing medical services provided outside Poland. Is it true that the Fund has not spent any financial resources on innovative therapies this year, on the development of strategic medical infrastructure and on the modernisation of hospitals and prevention? Has the competition for the modernisation of paediatric hospitals been decided? How many applications have been received by the end of March 2022? Have the funds from the Medical Fund for cystic fibrosis and Duchenne's muscular dystrophy been used yet? If so, what is the amount of funds already spent on these tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u238	We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws (Print No 2349). I ask the Secretary of State, Mr Marcin Horala, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The present government bill amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws reformes, amends one of the elements of the existing expropriation system for public investment, and specifically changes the way in which compensation payments are calculated. There are three basic principles, three foundations, three pillars of the new payment system, the valuation of property compensation expropriated to public investment. Firstly, each expropriated will receive a little more than the market value of his property, i.e. he will receive a bonus to the value of the property from which he is expropriated. In terms of personal net value - this is a concept in the field of personal finance - its personal net value will increase. E.g. If he has already had a property worth PLN 1 million, he will have 1,100 thousand, 1,200 thousand in details in a moment. That's the first rule. And that's what needs to be determined: she's the most important one. Each expropriated will get a little more than the value of the property from which it is expropriated. Rule two, auxiliary. Any damage which, as a result of expropriation, has been caused, any damage expropriated as a result of expropriation will be compensated. Even if the damage for some reason is greater than the said value of the property plus a certain bonus. And third rule, supplemental. As a case of special protection, which should be applied with special sensitivity, we consider the case where the expropriated person lives on this expropriated property, i.e. when, as a result of the investment, someone will be deprived of his or her roof over his or her head. Then we introduce the concept of a minimum amount of compensation for expropriation. It is calculated using a certain formula, the basis of which is the replacement value of 1 m Those three rules. these are at the same time three changes in relation to the current state of affairs. Because what is the current state, which has been in force in Poland for many, many years, not introduced by this government, applied to many expropriations to public investment, expropriations to highways, expropriations to investments related to EURO 2012? In it, the main principle was that the compensation is the market value of the expropriated property itself. There was no bonus here, there was no bonus. It was in many people who caused feelings of harm, one must admit that sometimes subjective, but sometimes objective. First of all, the fact that someone forced to get rid of their property didn't plan to sell it himself. This is a certain ailment that is difficult to quantify in material terms, but we must certainly assume that it exists. Secondly, in the case of persons who have lived on this property, this illness is significantly greater. It is also invaluable materially, but it is. There are a number of additional costs related to this: real estate brokerage costs, legal service costs, removal costs, which in this system, in quotes, are not compensated for net market value compensation. Especially difficult is the situation of entrepreneurs, because the cost of transferring small businesses, service workshops, craftsmen is significantly higher than the cost of the property itself. By force, this activity is dying for some time, and you have to pay people salaries, you have to pay loan instalments, maybe you lose some contracts, maybe you have to pay some kind of contractual penalty, and the expropriated gets only the bare market value of the property from which it was expropriated. It gets the equivalent of land, buildings, while all these other costs remain covered. There was not what we are introducing now, i.e. claims for compensation for actual damage, if any damage, even if the kind I was talking about here, appeared as a result of expropriation. So the overwhelming majority of the expropriated may have felt harmed by being expropriated. But of course, just like each coin has two sides or each stick has two ends, there was a group, a few, which thanks to the use of so-called. the principles of benefits, the principle of the "curiosity" and generally not existing in Europe outside Poland, resulted in huge profits being expropriated to public investment. What kind of property was particularly preferred or especially awarded by this way, was there, the Polish state? Not the property of business, not the property of some small craft factory, not the property of a house or apartment in which someone lives, but the property of large areas, dozens of hectares of land of low value. People like that, let's say, which ones. 5, 7, 10 years earlier, they well predicted where some infrastructure investment would be, and bought land at 5 PLN per 1 m. And these are specific cases - we present this in the OSR - expropriations for the construction of national roads and motorways in Poland, when the market value of the expropriated property amounted to several hundred thousand PLN, and the compensation paid - which was done at the expense of all of us, at the expense of taxpayers, also those expropriated from their homes, who received nothing but their pure market value - several million. That was a hundred percent profit. This principle was, of course, absurd logically and simply, humanly unfair. Hence this multiple, going into hundreds of percent, sometimes over 1000% , profit for the few as a result of being expropriated to public investment will disappear from the legal system, will no longer function, but everyone will get more than the market value of their property. Any damage caused by expropriation will be covered and, in addition, persons expropriated from the place where they live will be guaranteed that even if the market value of this place was small, they will get at least enough to find a decent place elsewhere. This is the basic change. It concerns the Real Estate Management Act, as well as a whole range of investment specifications, all laws that regulate the rules of expropriation and valuation of these expropriations for public investment. The Act also contains provisions concerning only the Central Communication Port, the Central Communication Port Act. They relate primarily to the area of the voluntary acquisition programme. We are here to propose solutions that will allow people to be offered a voluntary scheme to acquire more favourable conditions than so far for voluntary real estate buy-back. This is a specific feature of the CPK programme, which is not available and was not available for other public-purpose investments. The point is that many years before the location was established and therefore expropriated from the law, as was the case. in the case of motorways, it is possible to enter into negotiations, talks and, if the price proposed would correspond, to the conclusion on a voluntary basis of a normal civil and legal purchase agreement with the investor. We believe that this form - as I say, extra, extra, the inhabitants can use it, if they don't want to, may not benefit - is a good proposition and it would be good to use it on a voluntary basis, well in advance, so that they have more time to plan their lives, to arrange for these issues related to the transfer of the center of their life activity. This is why we want to be able to propose more favourable conditions in this programme than before: both better, of course, a slightly better price - because we must remain here within the limits of economic rationality and there must be a link between the price and the real value of the property - and slightly better conditions. For example, it was allowed that someone, e.g. the farmer can arrange, sell his property, but until it is physically needed for construction purposes, he can still use it. You can e.g. sow, harvest from this property, it can be used in its agricultural activities. Finally, there is another proposal or one of the new elements of the voluntary programme to acquire. This applies to a specific group of farmers who, as a result of the public consultation, the discussions, the demands of the social side, are already close to retirement age, are not the youngest and sell their property. For a farmer, selling the farm is not only a certain ownership exchange, a certain equity equivalent, i.e. a situation of the type: I had a farm worth, for example, PLN 1 million, and now I have 1,200 thousand. zł in the account, but it is also the source of his income, the source of his livelihood. And perhaps sometimes such demands were made by people who are already somewhat more advanced in age and who, for example. a few years before they retired, they would no longer want to look for another farm for this money, to recreate this activity, so that the company would be able to offer benefits to such persons, for example. the pension, which during this period will be the source of their livelihood or later will support them in retirement. I would like to stress that it is also well understood that we are talking here not about a pension within the meaning of social security law, but about a pension within the meaning of civil law, a civil-legal obligation. This possibility is again voluntary. If someone wants to use it, then other bonuses can be given up, they can sell their farm for him, so I will say colloquially, the bare market value, but he will get this pension as a source of living over the years he has been retired. Ladies and gentlemen! One more comment on this bill. As you have heard here, as I said, it is beneficial for everyone, for the general public, while there is a narrow group of people who will lose on it. A person like that will lose in the sense that instead of getting 700%, 800%, 1000% instead of being expropriated 10 times richer, he gets 120% e.g. value of real estate and damage compensation. Objectively, it's no harm, but in relation to the previous condition, it's going to get less. We're talking about millions and tens of millions. The law industry has also developed around this, and this is about specialised law firms helping to obtain this kind of compensation. I know there are special organizations, let's say they're social organizations that support these firms. I know they send you a letter. Reading questions, interpellations, sometimes I see in them one-sounding expressions taken alive from the writings of these organizations. I'm asking for caution and caution here. These postulates are dressed in poetry to show concern for people, to safeguard the interests of people, while... Of course, the owners of the law firm are also people. The people who bought 100 ha each placed on future state investments are also people, but, let's say, they are specific people, specific interest groups. I ask you, Members, to approach such voices with criticism, with common sense, and to assess whether it is worth the dignity, seriousness of a Member of the Republic of Poland to engage in the protection of such interests. High Izbo! In my view, this bill is the essence of what public policy should be. It should be about promoting not narrow interest groups, but the general public, the implementation of the principles of social justice, but also, you can say, non-adjective justice, just justice, that there should be a public interest in providing certain public goods to everyone, for example. roads, railway lines, airport, energy transmission networks, pipelines, all the infrastructure that we all need for life, and at the same time balance it with the interests of the individual, the person who has a piece of land somewhere that has a house. You have to build these objects somewhere, you have to locate them somewhere. There's no place where it doesn't involve expropriating someone, someone's property needs to be used for it. This will always be done in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, with due compensation, fairer, slightly greater - I stress: a bit, but more - than the market value of this property. This is how a well-managed country, effective, caring for its citizens and their interests - both for the general public, for all citizens and for individual individuals - should pursue its policies. I therefore ask the High House to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u240	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the presentation of Government in print 2349. It is a law on amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws. I would like to comment on the speech of the Minister, the representative of the government of Martin Horala, on a few more comments. I will repeat at the very beginning what are today's regulations, which refer to the benefit-based compensation system, which was and is also applied to all so-called ones. an investment agent. The Minister referred to some examples here. I'll say it again. In the event of the expropriation of residential and business property, in particular the plant, the factory, the amount of the compensation shall be exclusively the value of the property. She ignores - which was often argued - removal costs, purchase costs of new real estate, transfer costs of economic activity or restoration of agricultural production. Similarly, the Minister pointed out that in the current legal regime, farmers today receive no additional compensation for the loss of this property, which is their place of work. In turn, in the event of expropriation of real estate intended for housing, service, commercial damages correspond solely to the market value of the land. Turning now to the regulations proposed by the government, which Parliamentary Club Law and Justice obviously supports, first of all, I would stress that the aim of the proposed changes is to remove this social injustice in the current system of compensation and to refer more broadly to the European practice widely applied in many countries of our continent. It is about replacing this essence, i.e. replacing the principle of benefit, with new regulations, which are such that they provide fair compensation, also to the extent that they respect, first and foremost, the equality of persons expropriated from the law, which is manifested in connection with the amount of compensation with the market value of the property, taking into account specific situations, especially concerning the expropriation of housing. The Minister has already pointed out that, in this new regulation, the government recommends the following practice to add a cash bonus to the value of the property in each case, which would represent a flat-rate equivalent of removal costs, the execution of legal acts that have not yet been reimbursed. This cash bonus would also be a specific remuneration for the mere fact of forced acquisition of property. In the case of classic this bonus would be 10% value of real estate. In the case of construction facilities, this bonus increases to 20% of the value of the premises above the valuation, which is, of course, made at market value on the basis of the operation. We want to make better use of the right nature of compensation, providing for two safeguards for expropriated persons. It will have a claim to a civil court for real damage to a wider extent than that covered by compensation. He'll be able to use it, for example. an undertaking for which expropriation always causes, in any case, even in the case of a public investment, high damage, the classic basic scale of which 10% He might not cover it. Here you can add a number of other arguments. I think we have a very thorough work ahead of us on this project in committee. But once again, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the recommended changes contained in this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When we read the justification of this bill, which changes the whole system, as has already been mentioned here, first of all compensation in the case of forced expropriations, a new, wonderful world emerges to us, such from a light Orwellian, only happy people who are given by the state more than they deserve. I just don't know why they're protesting all over Poland. We need to think about what this is really about. Although the law applies to regulation at all, a greedy, greedy state emerges from it, which does not matter to people who do not care about property that does not matter about tradition and culture and the sustainability of habitats. What, though, has caused us to regulate the whole system in such a way that we fear the citizens? Because he's not just gonna be about what's going on today, but he's gonna be about the future. Here's what made this - the new great world of Minister Horala's three jobs, which shows us a bright future and which removes us from habitats and property on such a scale as in history. Poland never happened. It's estimated to be about 20,000. ha na megalotnisko with megadeweloper around plus spokes so-called. Railroad. On the map, it's as if the housekeeper went to the cabbage and chopped it completely, including the people who are on this land. [[Applause]] And the Minister boasts of himself, as he thinks of the state. Because through these greedy and unjust, and unjust solutions - this is what they boast - they will save for the Treasury today, estimatedly, about PLN 30 billion, as I calculated from examples shown here by the Minister. 30 billion PLN difference, i.e. de facto stolen citizens from the compensation system, which we do not have the best, because fair and fair compensation is when it is negotiated in a fair and voluntary way with citizens whenever possible. And that's the way things are. It so happens that fair and fair compensation, in line with our constitutional principles, proposed or merely forced, the World Bank, which, for example, financed. flood-related investments. As the Civic Coalition Club, we will ask, since we are dealing with a systemic solution, for the introduction of this rule, which allows for the restoration of habitats, which allows for fair and fair treatment of citizens - we will ask for the introduction of this law into the Polish legal order. Of course, as far as this law is concerned, it is about this solution at the moment - which still regulates all other specialities, because in Poland we have these issues scattered - we will ask for it to be rejected at first reading and for real, fair and constitutional regulations that will force partner and respectful treatment of their citizens. I do not want to speak here because this is not the subject of today's debate on the question of the validity of this project, but I am talking about the legitimacy and fairness of the treatment of citizens. And don't juggle the meaning of words, because the principle of benefit doesn't talk about any benefits, especially the wrong ones you're talking about and accusing of manipulating others. The market value is not really a market value and does not allow the restoration of the property, because the replacement value is minus consumption, also labour. Compensation is not compensation for damage, and certainly not damage to the psyche, the culture and those associated with the entire breakdown (The Bell) of human habitats. We therefore make a proposal on behalf of the Civic Coalition to reject the project at first reading, and if it does not find justification, support in the High House, we will ask for a public hearing in the second reading, first of all, because it is the Poles and Poles who are responsible for this matter. And then, in partnership, we will proceed to work on fair and constitutional expropriation in which there will be no forced resettlement of Poles. On such a scale and in such a way even the killers did not do it in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u244	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to give a very warm welcome to the primary school students. Tadeusz Kościuszko in Gypsy and School Complex No. 1 Kazimierz Wielki in Minsk Mazowiecki. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendments proposed in the draft law provide for the reform of the area of compensation for the expropriation of immovable property in order to ensure compliance to a greater extent than at present with the principle of fair compensation laid down in the Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. The most important solutions are compensation for expropriating property to a public-purpose investment. To this value will be added a cash bonus, which will amount to 10% base value of real estate. Bonus of 20% will concern the value of the building located on the property and the value of the dwelling. The cash bonus will be a flat-rate equivalent of removal costs and legal activities. In order to ensure the proper nature of the compensation, two additional safeguards were provided for expropriated persons. It will be entitled to a claim to a civil court for real damage to a wider extent than is apparent from compensation, and if the compensation for the immovable property is lower than the statutory indicators, it will be entitled to increase this compensation to a level allowing the recovery of the housing situation. These are fairly good-looking assumptions and the idea itself seems right if not for the fact that this law concerns inter alia. investment in such a huge social, economic and financial controversy. The introduced simplified expropriation system for public purposes, compensation and bonuses are incentives dedicated to your flagship investment called the CPK, which is also a symbol of your giganticity. The way of making this investment is, of course, as always, in your strict PiS style, which means little is known. The inhabitants of Baranów and other surrounding towns even asked for help from the Ombudsman. Environmental studies have not been carried out, especially on noise related to the operation of a large airport. According to the Ombudsman's report, the owners of CPK's parcels complain about the illusory nature of the public consultation and the lack of reliable information. There is still no known extent of the impact of the various nuisances associated with the planned airport. It is also not possible to identify areas where a safe location of housing will be located. It happens that representatives of the investor enter the property located in the area of pre-announced expropriations under the CPK without the consent of the owners to carry out natural inventory. This raises legitimate concerns about the legal basis for entering them, especially since without the consent of the owners, photographic documentation of parcels and buildings is drawn up, we read in a document presented by the Ombudsman. According to the RPO, the acquisition and expropriation activities under construction undermine the general principle of citizen's confidence in the state. The compensation provided for in the Act will be a kind of lump sum, which will consist in a part corresponding to the market value of the property established by the property valuer for the current use of the property and closer to the undefined hill or - as the authors of this project want - so-called. Bonus. The proposed changes raise a lot of social and legal concerns. In particular, the question may be raised: Is compensation based on a flat-rate model in line with the constitutional principle which entitles the owner of the property to compensation corresponding to a fair remuneration? These doubts raise and will be particularly justified in the case of expropriated real estate acquired for investment purposes. The proposed changes also do not introduce sufficient mechanisms that would allow a fair assessment of the actual damage suffered by the owner of the property as a result of its expropriation. Although the draft amendment is intended to initiate a judicial review of the regularity of the compensation, according to the declaration by the authors of the amendment, the compensation claims of the owners of the expropriated property are to be limited only to the amount of the actual damage suffered. Experts have a lot of doubts about this. Minister Horała often says that the whole society will benefit from this amendment. Well, you're very wrong, Minister. Even if I don't know how you filmed it and (The Bell) wraps it around the bush, the facts are that you have the mania of great monuments in the name of mania of greatness, which history - I deeply believe - will judge accordingly. And this controversial investment is already a huge cost, whose burden, regardless of the amount of compensation, you're transferring to a society that you won't forget.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u246	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u247	I would like to stress one more thing: after the end of your governments, we will check in detail every dollar spent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u248	Thank you. Please, Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u249	God's greetings to the inhabitants of Jasionka and other towns, through which you appointed the Minister of Speech a variety of this great project! Poland, a great project that you carry out on the one hand so that it goes on for years and has not yet taken on any real contours beyond, of course, printouts from the accounts of employed officials, and on the other hand you have already alerted the whole of Poland, put the inhabitants of many villages in perspective of transformation, or perhaps revolutions in their lives. The theory seems to suggest a variety of variants of these routes was intended to relax this situation somehow. In practice, it only ignites it because you've managed to scare more people than it will actually be the victim of your giant mania. Here I will point out that along with my entire formation I am a great advocate of cool, forward-looking projects. We are passionate about technology and technology of the future, aviation, railroads, however fast. In China it's already over 400 km/h, it's still below 200 km/h, so these projects also become problematic if time savings are to be counted in minutes and not in hours. Podrzeszowska Jasionka, Zamość in the neighbouring region of Lublin, Izbica, in Krasnystaw there is already a pretty well organized rebellion. It is disturbing that you are heading towards a goal that is, of course, so noble that it is a kind of moral blackmail towards us. Anyone questioning its legitimacy is putting a stick in the spokes nomen omen and not progressing. Dear Minister, You just don't respect property rights. You want this bypass, this cleaver you're gonna cut through all these Gordian knots, these problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't want to negotiate with people, you don't want to meet them, you don't want to offer them a decent paycheck. too often the ruin of life that they have just built, e.g. However, when they came from abroad, the Green Island repatriates decided to bet on Poland, to raise their children here, and now to lose it all. I'll come back here with a question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u251	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such a problem with this bill that I usually disagree with you 100%. On the other hand, without changing my mind about the CPK or other palaces of pride built by the PiS, I must say that this bill goes in a sense in the direction of ordering and interpreting the compensation system. It also contains a mechanism - I understand the intention in this law - to prevent situations where those who have money and can process for higher compensation receive much more than those who, say, do not have such means or are in a completely different, much worse situation. Therefore, this established system, which is here, rationally organizes the compensation system - that must be acknowledged. It prevents discrepancies that are already in the estimated operations. There are sometimes three completely different surgeries. It introduces good patterns from Western countries and this is seen in the justification of this project. It prevents abuse, so it protects taxpayers' interests in some way, but it also tries, at least it responds to a fair and decent approach to owners' interests, although here we have serious reservations, because we will make amendments that will take much more into account this interest of owners. And introduces extra bonuses, 10% and 20% to the real value of the land, also taking into account - and this is indeed new - other losses, opening the way to claims before the court, i.e. the possibility of making arrangements, settlements with the State Treasury regarding other costs, e.g. Just downtime in production. This law also, and this is on its plus, notes the situation of people in real estate with very low value, so-called. The ladies in the cottage. I don't know if you know this case. There are plenty of people who already are. on expropriated reserves under the road... abstracting from the CPK, this problem already occurs very often at the moment. However, here there is an alternative mechanism based on the number of persons checked in and an objective conversion factor, which is given by the voivode. This mechanism says that a better option is chosen automatically, that means that these people do not have to process, fight for it, only they will get it. So much in theory, of course. On the other hand, as stressed in this Chamber, the whole investment, the entire CPK is a very socially sensitive and controversial project. As Poland 2050, we will certainly make amendments (the bell), consisting of an increase of up to 20% and 40% these bonuses, as well as other indicators in this bill. On the other hand, as regards the proposal made by the Civic Coalition and Mrs Lenartowicz, I understand that he is more concerned with the whole way of implementing this investment than with the quite tidy and favourable provisions of the law, so we will consider what to do with it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. Let me remind you that we have limits on questions. You can replace a member from a club who won't be in the gym. Please, as the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. He made his statement in writing. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government bill amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws is a project which concerns the amount of compensation for the expropriation of property to various types of investments. Minister, I would very much like to ask for a written answer to the question of what amount is earmarked for payment of compensation in 2022 and what part of this amount concerns compensation related to the implementation of the CPK. How large a group in terms of quantity and value is already diagnosed, which will have this paid out in 2022 in terms of expropriation of real estate for public-purpose investments across the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One day a letter comes to the citizen and at one point he takes away memories of his childhood or plans for the future connected with this particular place. The official has decided so, and our plans don't matter. We receive compensation, which is usually not satisfactory. We buy an apartment or another house, we build new plans for the future, and at some point we get another message that there has been a change, that there will be no expropriation, that we can stay in our home, but that we must quickly give back the money we received. In such situations, should the consequences of wrong decisions not be borne by the person responsible for this situation? Few of this, the project provides for the prosecution of heirs in such situations, people who may never have known about the payment of such a benefit. Is that the way it should be, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u256	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Real Estate Act is an outrageous solution. It was created only for the purpose of building the Central Communication Port, which from the beginning arouses huge emotions and many controversy. Many requests have been made to my parliamentary office for help from the residents to stop such harmful actions by the government. The fact that people are being deprived of property, homes, jobs on such a huge scale and the effects it will cause are unimaginable for them. In addition, the project presented shows that compensation for forced expropriation will be extremely low and adverse to those deprived of their assets. So I am addressing the author of these changes to Mr Marcin Horała's regulations with questions. Why don't you respect Art. The 21st Constitution, which speaks of proper compensation in the event of expropriation to public purposes? Why is expropriation provisions as it stands beneficial only for the investor? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the CPK really have to be implemented at such a huge social cost? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, What you're doing, Minister, is outrageous. The first scandal is that it is you who is preparing this bill, and you are personally responsible for spending as little as possible on the CPK and those megalomaniac 10 spokes. And the second scandal is how you talk about the rules that have been in force so far, which may indicate that people who are afraid of losing their lives are some smart-ass people because they're going to get paid in some special way on these expropriations. Are you able to say, no, you know very well, that the example of the owner of the gardening farm in Brzeziny podłódzkie will not find a similar farm for the money he will receive from you and will not build a new one? You know very well that the owner of the house and stable will not find similar ones in the vicinity of Brzezin (The Bell) or build a new house.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u260	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u261	In January 2019 your colleague, Minister Artur Soboń, said that ownership is sacred, but he did not say that there is one exception to this rule that works when the PiS thinks otherwise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Expropriations represent a further, further stage in the investment process. It's a forceful act, I'd say brutal, because you deprive the owners of their property against their will. Therefore, while respecting the Constitution, every effort should be made to ensure that this action is It's the least painful for the owners, no sense of harm. Meanwhile, the government focuses mainly on buying real estate as cheap as possible to the CPK company as soon as possible, because that's mostly what this is about, matting people with bonuses. This is absolutely a trap. People won't fall for it because it's hurting for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're gonna be like a constitution, because in art. 21 We have decided that the Republic protects property and the right to inherit. I've reviewed the constitution. There's nothing here about protecting the most sophisticated investment projects of any kind or any other government. You're unlucky because you could have started building high-speed rail, the airport, when we had deflation, today we have inflation. The proposal with which you came to the High House does not guarantee the current owners that, as a result of the compensation you are proposing, they will be able to restore their property. Proof? Yesterday's Politics and the article. Why haven't the road contracts been signed? Because the contractors estimated that they would have suffered losses of between 25 and 30%. You can't secure the interests of your current owners with this solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it's going to be as beautiful as you say, after this bill is introduced, why don't the people of Baranów and Viskitek believe you? The voluntary acquisition of land has so far been realized, perhaps 4 of the planned acquisition. They don't trust you. We are currently working on very socially sensitive topics. We change the principle of defining the constitutional concept of fair compensation for violation of the fundamental right to property, property which is the foundation of the welfare of Poles, protected by the law. Why is it not discussed to redefine compensation in such a way as to ensure the restoration of ownership? Why aren't we talking about costing real estate value according to World Bank guidelines? The Polish system is based on market value. The legislator assumed that the expropriated has the right to buy a similar property, but after this, after such mass expropriations (the bell), these properties will be much more expensive and even at a 20% bonus you will not be able to buy them in the given area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On a concrete example, I would like to show how wonderfully you treat Poles. Such an example is the agrotourism farm with expropriated buildings in World Bank mode, 5.5 ha, valued in full, its value according to the World Bank, which has been paid, is less than PLN 2.5 million. This has been assessed by a remodeling method that can be applied when comparable properties cannot be found. The cost of consumption is 1,700 thousand. zł. Marketly, as it is so far, when there is a similar used habitat: 1 million PLN. After your amendment, these owners will get PLN 497 402 (The Bell), unless they get $572,000. zł, including bonus. That's five times less. Is that supposed to be good? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We talk about the achievements of people's lives, sometimes the achievements of many generations. You're so gentle, so frivolously talking about abuse, about making money. Minister, a little humility. I wanted to ask you if you had the courage to stand before the inhabitants of Katowice, Mikokov, Łazisk, Orzesz, Żor, Rybnik, Hawk-Zdrój, Massany or Godowa and consult with them on this proposal. There were meetings, you had a chance. I want to hear from you what these people have told you. You're giving them, as you say, a bonus, a 10% bonus today. These people are afraid that for this money in a week or two they won't be able to build their homes, that they won't be able to find a place on the ground in Poland, because prices gallop, inflation gallops, and here you give (Bonk) a little bonus for those people who lose their living achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u273	To answer the question, the Minister can open his notebook and see if you will be able to be seen on Wednesday 29 June at the Parliamentary meeting of the Podkarpackie Team, to which the inhabitants of the Podrzeszów Jasionka will arrive. Your department may have been officially invited to this meeting by now, but I'd be glad to know today. Please come and be equipped with the documentation of this spoke on this episode. Face reality. This reality is Poles who feel that they will not be able to reconstruct your life, which you will destroy, because it is easier because it is easier not to talk to people, because it is easier to force (the bell) right and left what has already been set here. You have an invitation to the parliamentary team. It's a specific Jasion's case and determined, frightened by your people, who are agitated by the prospect of life's ruin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u275	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government bill amending the Real Estate Act is a very bad project for citizens. How in this project will you secure the amount of persons whose properties will be taken under the construction of the Central Communication Port, persons from the commune of Baranów, the commune of Teresin, the commune of Wiskitki, but also from those towns where spokes will pass? Expropriation is a very difficult and sensitive subject. How are you gonna make it up to people? The people in the communes I've mentioned haven't known what's going to happen to them for over four years. These are also moral losses. It's been the work of these people's lives for many, many generations. How will you compensate them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u276	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u277	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is evidence of your arrogance or incompetence, depending on which way to look at it. Minister! Are you able to stand in the truth and admit that you are trying to create a gateway to easier expropriation of people's property for the construction of the Central Communication Port? The law applies throughout Poland, not only where Minister Horała wants it. You're saying you want to bring in higher compensation for expropriation. Manna from heaven. It sounds very beautiful, but do you not see that the same rules will apply if the developer buys the land for the construction of the apartments, and the municipality will have to expropriate it e.g. For the construction of the road? New, increased compensation will not go from government budgets to people, but into the pockets of developers. In smaller towns, this can lead to a porrisome situation where compensation will be greater than the construction of the entire investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Is this a mistake, or are you consciously supporting developers? How are you going to stop it? The bill in this shape is a simple bubble, which immediately needs to be thrown into the basket. I urge you to focus on restoring rail connections with which you have clearly a serious problem, and this is a new megalot. The costs of this investment and remuneration for the CPK board grow faster than grass in the meadow in Baranów. Stop building on human harm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u278	That was the last question. I now invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Martin Horala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity, too bad, that you Members, or at least a significant part of you, have not complied with my polite request from my speech not to duplicate here the arguments of lobbyist organizations that have legal firms that have based their businesses on success fee, on hundreds of percent of real estate conversions, so, of course, they are investing. They're investing in you, reaching out to you, and you're even... [[Impudent insinuation. Suggesting bribery.]] No. If... [[Mithic, sir...]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u280	Please, may I have the peace of mind in the courtroom... But of course, Minister, you are accusing Members of committing a crime. You can't do that. You're welcome. [[Hold on, hold on, hold on, ……]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: No, no. Well, in that case, I will correct my statement if you may have understood it contrary to my intention. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: I'm absolutely not suggesting that you committed a crime or, for example, I don't know, take bribes, I'm as far away from it as possible. But the creation of an organization that employs experts whose experts appear in the media, who write magazines, I also get these letters... I get a letter from the organization, and then I get a letter from you, which is a word for word written from the letter from the organization. So in this sense, they invest their time and their effort in reaching and creating this kind of thing. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lenartowicz asks why people are protesting. That's why they're protesting, just like every investment... Point me to an investment, e.g. construction of a highway in the days of the Civic Platform, for which there would be no protests. Of course, these buildings were less and they were running much slower, so the total sum collected, the critical mass of these protests was smaller, it is true. Because the momentum of the investment was smaller. [[Bigger.]] Calm down, Minister... You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Please, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: She also said that the principle of benefit is not a principle of benefit and that the market value is not a market value. Well, I just don't agree with the same thing. Market value is market value and the principle of benefit That's the principle of benefit. So it is described in the legal doctrine and all the states defending this principle in this Chamber... I've run out of arguments. What public purpose, which principle of justice, whatever principle is behind the justification of the situation, when there are two persons, the property of one is one million zlotys in real estate and one million zlotys in real estate, only that one million zlotys in the first one is the house in which she lives, and one million zlotys in the other is for example. 50 hectares of forest, and now as a result of expropriation to public investment, the first one who lived in this house gets a million, and the other one who had 50 hectares of forest gets 7 million or 10 million. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: What's the point of defending such solutions? I just don't get it, and I'm surprised that your face, your name, is defending this kind of solution. Karolina Pavliczak of the Left says that no environmental studies have been carried out and three sentences later says that the inhabitants are concerned that the employees of the investor are entering their property to carry out environmental studies. Well, it's either that or it's that. Well, at least don't accuse us of two completely contradictory actions at the same time. Yes, environmental studies are carried out: 14 months in the case of the airport itself and the node and more than a year in the case of any other investment, not even hundreds but thousands of naturalists. They will all be reflected in the environmental impact report, which will be attached to the proposal for an environmental decision. So really please don't repeat here obvious, easily verifiable lies that there are no environmental analyses conducted. Besides, no investment without such analyses can arise, simply. That is the law in Poland. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After all, not a salary based on a roar, only a bonus of 10 or 20% to a remuneration based on market value, an estimated operation as well as today. If at present someone gets the market value itself, the estimated operation itself, and gets the estimated operation plus 10 or 20% How do you say he loses on this solution when he gets 10-20%? More than he got before? Limiting only to actual damage, and that is a substantive voice. Why do we limit this right of claim to actual damage and not to lost benefits? The lost benefits are the future benefits of doing business or using the property in some way. If someone gets compensation that covers the value of this property, plus a certain bonus, then the assumption is that they can acquire a similar property as property and then benefit from this new property roughly the same as the old one. So either we give property value plus bonus, plus damage coverage, and then this person can recreate this property and enjoy similar benefits if he decides so - he can decide otherwise, but it's her free will - or we cover her lost benefits. Not both. Moreover, the concept of lost benefits is very vague, subject to very far-reaching interpretation differences and the introduction of such a claim for damages into the legal system would cause a whole range of problems and irregularities in courts, so the basis for an estimated operation, market value and real damage - a well-defined concept in law is much better. But again, as you are... You can't criticize... Because you criticize, for example. You are representatives of the Civic Coalition, the PSL, but also the Left. The left also ruled in Poland when these regulations were already in force. So you're accusing us that giving the right to investigate actual damage is not enough, it's wrong, it's still a lost benefit, and the state, as you ruled, you had the majority in the Sejm, you had the opportunity to make changes, it didn't give any of the lost benefits, because you didn't even give the real damage, just like we want to give the right to investigate it. Mr Grzegorz Braun said in his speech that we are intimidating people by presenting different variants of the route. That's what the law requires, that's how the investment process is conducted. First, a corridor study, which is subject to consultation, in which corridors are presented, in which individual mileages will be placed, then, and this is the investor's obligation, needs to set some examples of mileages, so that each of these runs can be examined very carefully in terms of technical, economic, environmental and recalibrate. It's called multi-critical analysis. This takes a year, sometimes two years for some investments, in order to choose from these steps the optimal one, which is balanced in such a way that possible social damage, costs and environmental damage are as small as possible. And that's just how you have to do it. This is also a very good practice, allowing you to choose the optimal course. He then pointed out that the savings would be counted in minutes. Well, nothing's more wrong. E.g. now the fastest connection from Rzeszow to Warsaw is 4 hours 28 minutes, and there are even 7-hour calls. As a result of the CPK investment program, the journey from Rzeszow to Warsaw will take 2 hours 15 minutes, so it will be a connection twice as fast as the fastest connection. This is a two-hour benefit, not a minute benefit, as he was gracious to say to the Member. Then he said: "You do not want to negotiate, meet, propose a decent payment. There's nothing more wrong with it. Show me another project of infrastructure investments in Poland - construction of motorways, construction of buildings on Euro 2012 - in the case of which at a very early stage of planning work, many years before a potential localization decision and expropriation by law, the voluntary acquisition program is already in operation, it is already possible to negotiate, residents can already conclude such agreements on a civil basis. Don't we want to hang out? More than 300 live meetings have already been held throughout Poland as part of the consultation process. The CPK investment programme, apart from all its aspects, is also the biggest public consultation programme in Poland in the field of infrastructure investments. There has never been such a wide-ranging and so far-reaching consultation beyond the statutory obligations of the investor. Thank you very much, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, for your substantive speech. I'm sure there'll be time on the committee to talk about specific solutions. I understand that it is possible to disagree, to have a different opinion on the draft submitted, but I just wanted to thank you for the fact that, as one of the few, unfortunately, people speaking in the discussion and asking questions, she referred to the content of the proposal. She didn't say there was anything in him. She presented her solutions. We'll discuss it on the committee. Maybe we can work out solutions that are acceptable to everyone. Mr Adamczyk asked - he asked for a written reply - what amount is earmarked for compensation for public-purpose investment in Poland. We will try to answer, although it will be extremely difficult, because this is quite a broad concept. Self-governments also invest in the public target. We have several thousand local government units in Poland. I don't know if with that much detail we can aggregate and collect this data. On the other hand, as far as the CPK investment process is concerned, we do not plan such compensation in 2022 because we do not plan to expropriate public investment. Currently, we are only at the stage of voluntary talks and possible voluntary civil law agreements. Mr Jan Szopiński of the Left recalled a rather specific case, which has nothing to do with the submission, because it concerns general rules on expropriations, which we do not change. We're just changing the principle of calculating wages or damages. He was talking about a situation where, after expropriation of the property, the public goal was abandoned and the person who received the compensation is now to retain the property and return the compensation. That is not the case. In fact, if an investment of a public purpose to which expropriation has not been carried out, the expropriated person has the right - but the right, not the obligation, may or may not benefit from - to return the property from which it was expropriated. It's a decision. the person himself who was expropriated when the purpose of expropriation was not fulfilled. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej said that compensation is extremely low. If it's worth $500,000 for a house so far. According to the estimate, somebody would get $500,000, and after our shifts, they'd get $600,000, what's the understatement of damages? In this case, as a result of the implementation of this law, he will receive 100,000. More. And you say that as a result of the introduction of this law, compensation will be extremely understated and that we are violating the Constitution's article on fair compensation. In the overwhelming majority of cases, we offer more compensation than we currently do, so it is difficult to say that we are violating this article. Moreover, please note that this compensation according to the Constitution is not satisfactory, it is not even full. It is right, i.e. the social destiny of ownership and the sense of justice. A situation where, as a result of expropriation, someone does not lose, in terms of the value of his property, and gets a little more than the value of that property, 10-20%... This is one of the Members, also a Member of the Civic Coalition, the Civic Platform, who has said a voucher. Maybe a coupon, 10-20%, that's not much, but according to the rules so far, there's no such thing as zero. How can you criticize, say that someone gives too little, how they ruled themselves and didn't give anything? This, in my opinion, is the right compensation par excellence. Someone loses property, gets compensation in the amount of its value plus some compensation for ailments, damages, additional costs that result from this expropriation, i.e. neither loses nor, of course, gets enriched many times. Both of these solutions would be difficult to regard as valid under the Constitution. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski gave very good examples. Those who fear the loss of life, home, stable or farm are classic examples of these damage. In the old legal regime, someone expropriated from the estate where he ran the stud would get what the land and buildings are worth, and the additional losses he suffered, e.g. costs of finding a new place for horses or any other animals that were kept there, transport costs... It's all extra costs, extra pity. Thanks to our changes he will have the right to cover them, and in the current legal regime he would not have such a right and would not have received these funds. Mrs Zofia Czernow says that people will not fall for it because it is harmful for them. If someone doesn't fall for that 120% or 110% It's more harmful to him than 100%... Mr Cezary Grabarczyk brought the constitution to the stand. You said you didn't guarantee that they could recreate... In fact, it is a system based not on replacement value, but on market value - just like a system that was in force, while you were a minister, implemented infrastructure investments and carried out expropriations for public-purpose investments. [[There wasn't that much inflation.]] You didn't offer a remodeling value back then either. It is also not offered in Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, Lithuania, Bulgaria, the Netherlands and the overwhelming majority of other EU countries. The market value-based system is dominant. In second place is the tax or cadastral value, which we do not have in Poland. Therefore, we cannot use it. Mr Gadowski. I've already mentioned these bonuses. Was there a consultation? Yeah, there was a consultation. Once again, when it comes to the investment process, the law strictly regulates what obligations an investor has, what consultation must carry out and when. In the case of CPK not only all these consultations are carried out, but there is a lot of additional. Thank you kindly for inviting me to the parliamentary assembly. In fact, such an invitation came to me today. Unfortunately, I personally have other responsibilities at the time, but of course we will provide a team of experts from the Central Communication Port working on this particular section (The Bell) so that they can answer any questions. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska asks how we will secure the amount of expropriated persons, how we will compensate people. As we propose. Instead of, so far, the estimate itself, they're going to get plus 10%. to the value of the property, plus 20% to the value of the built-up property, they will be entitled to cover the additional damage they have suffered and which will not fit into it. That's not what they've had so far. These are some examples. I encourage you to use the voluntary acquisition program. You can negotiate. The price may be accepted or not accepted if it is unsatisfactory. Thanks to these regulations, e.g. the farmer will be able to obtain a pension if he disposes of the holding that is a source of subsistence. You'll also get a better price. So that we will compensate in this way, in a way far better than that provided for in the existing legal situation. Mr. Franciszek Sterczewski tells me that this is a gateway to easier expropriation of people. I don't think you've read the bill. After all, this law does not change anything as regards the expropriation procedure, the rules on which it takes place, deadlines, etc. She only changes the amount of compensation - in most cases to a bigger one. Easier, I mean. simpler, faster, with smaller procedural sharpenings. In the meantime, nothing changes in these procedures. The law applies everywhere, which is why it is a law regulating the expropriation system for public-purpose investments, the Real Estate Management Act, investment specifications. Of course, it would not be good if there were different legal regimes and if an expropriated person, for example. because of road investments, she received a different compensation than she would have received if she had been expropriated in connection with railway investments. It's the same system. Get close to the end, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: I just answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Braun. I'm asking this to be really one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u281	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You convinced me. After all, you have convinced me that you cannot be left alone with you in Jasionka, Zamość, Krasny Stawa or Mikołów. [[Is that a correction? The Member should be corrected if he is misunderstood.]] This shoe, this arrogance you've shown here, is proof that the tools you're reaching for... Shut your friend up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u282	I ask the Member and the Member to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u283	Quiet down, please. [[Why are you shutting me up?]] Just let the air down a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u284	Mr President, you will be running out of time in a moment, so speak. [[It's supposed to be a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u285	You proved today that you are preparing a hammer on the insubordinates... [[That's unanswerable.]] ...that what you say in the flow of honesty... Some screamers are screaming. This is your attitude towards Polish citizens (the bell), countrymen. We're not leaving them alone. You've already gotten away with it. You won't be coming to the band meeting, but I'm addressing the people of Jasionka and not only come. [[This is not a correction of your own speech.]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u286	I am very sorry, sir, but that was not a correction. I'm very sorry that you acted like this. [[Corrigendum. I was mentioned by name.]] There's a request to the ministers not to mention the Members by name. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u287	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After all, the essence of parliamentarians is debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u288	One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u289	The Minister claimed that no bonuses were foreseen in previous solutions. Please refer to the Road Construction Act. Art. 18 provides for e.g. 5% discount calculated on the value of the property if issued for the purpose of the investment within 30 days of the decision's validity.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u290	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u291	High Izbo! It is clear that in order to build the necessary infrastructure, the State must sometimes reach for the property in private hands. Each time, however, this should be done in an atmosphere of respect for private property and ordinary respect for the citizen and the treatment of citizens in an individual manner. Unfortunately, the actions of the PiS government are very different from this pattern. My Members' Office is informed of the reprehensible behaviour of officials sent to citizens only to deprive them of their property and to pay compensation below market value. Apart from the fact that this is clearly unfair, such conduct shows the boot and arrogance of the current authority. Perhaps the bill submitted will be able to break this very bad attitude of the current authority towards expropriated people. However, the approach presented should probably be a system covering all investments, not just selected cases. For this reason, I ask you to explain why the rules will apply only to selected investments and whether the government is considering changing this and including all investments in this system. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u292	There was a motion in the discussion... [[Now the Minister should correct it.]] Would the Minister like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u293	I'm just gonna straighten out this correction a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u294	Very briefly. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: A bonus to respect the value of real estate. The bonus for faster release is and will remain. [[Applause]] A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Labour Code and some other laws (Print No 2335). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Act - Labour Code and some other laws contained in print no.235, which aims to regulate in the Labour Code the ability to work remotely and the ability of employers to carry out self-control of the sobriety of workers and to control the presence of substances similar to alcohol in their bodies. As far as remote work is concerned, it is provided by workers in relation to the epidemic risk caused by COVID-19 under the provisions of the 2020 COVID Specialist. Remote work on the basis of these provisions may be recommended by employers to counter COVID-19. It's about preventing the spread of the disease. Over the past two years, both workers and employers have been willing to take advantage of the remote work introduced by the specialty, recognising its advantages. More and more requests were coming to the Ministry from both employees and employers' organisations to introduce this solution into the Labour Code permanently. In view of the fact that the remote work provided for in the Labour Code will be carried out under typical and not extraordinary conditions such as the situation of COVID, it was necessary to develop regulations that would safeguard the interests of both parties to the employment relationship. That is why we have worked together with the social partners both in the Social Dialogue Council teams and in the plenary of the Social Dialogue Council in order to develop the best possible solutions. And this project, which we are presenting to you, is such a compromise in the case of the solutions contained in the field of remote work. It can be expected that regular regulation of this form of work can encourage more workers to provide it at their place of residence because of the greater availability of work that can be carried out outside the workplace, e.g. at the place of residence, combining work with care for independent persons, or other solutions that will improve the situation of families in this situation, for example with regard to care for children or those who are excluded, even by communication. The proposed regulations will replace the current provisions of the Labour Code on teleworking, which have proved to be too flexible. However, some of the legal arrangements for teleworking have been adopted into the new code rules on remote work. With regard to changes in the Labour Code on sobriety control, they aim to provide a basis for employers to conduct and carry out preventive checks on the sobriety of workers and to control the presence of alcohol-like agents in their bodies. However, this will only be allowed if such checks are necessary to protect certain goods. Legislative work on the Law in this area has been undertaken in connection with numerous demands from employers whose employees have carried out professional activities, under the influence of substances or measures affecting their psychophysical performance. We're talking about alcohol or even drugs. In these cases, employers did not have the opportunity to carry out an independent verification of this condition, hence the changes we propose. Today, these issues have been and are regulated by the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism. So that these changes that we will introduce into the Labour Code will also regulate these issues. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the concrete solutions that are included in this project, I will discuss some of them in more detail. As far as remote work is concerned, we have introduced a definition of remote work. Remote work will be the work of doing work entirely or partly at the place indicated by the worker and at any time agreed with the employer, including at the address of the worker's residence, in particular by means of direct distance communication. Remote work will be able to be agreed upon when concluding a contract of employment, so it will either provide for a contract of employment directly or at the time of employment in the form of a change in the terms of the contract of employment, for which no written form will be required. It is possible to instruct an employee to work remotely by the employer in specific cases, e.g. during the period of validity of the emergency, with a reservation concerning the lodging by the staff member immediately prior to the order of a declaration of possession of local and technical conditions for the performance of the work in this form. Provision shall be made for the obligation to lay down rules for the performance of remote work, which shall be contained in an agreement between the employer and the work union organisation or in the rules laid down by the employer if no agreement is reached with the work union organisation and where no trade union organisation is established with the employer. Then the rules of procedure shall be drawn up after consultation with the representatives of the staff. It shall also be possible to carry out remote work at the request of the staff member where no agreement has been reached or there are no regulations laying down rules for the performance of remote work. Groups of employees, e.g. employees who raise a child under the age of 4 shall be entitled to apply for remote employment as a rule to the employer. Regulation of the employer's obligations vis-à-vis a worker performing a remote job is introduced, inter alia. the obligation to provide the worker with the materials and tools necessary to carry out remote work and to cover the costs of remote work, including increased costs of electricity consumption and certain services, including telecommunications services. It is also possible to carry out checks on the performance of remote work by the worker in the field of health and safety at work or to comply with safety requirements, to protect information and to deal with the findings in the course of the check. These principles, as I said before, will also be included directly in the employment contract or in agreement with trade unions or trade union organisations. An important instrument is the possibility, also at the request of an employee, of mothers raising children up to the age of 4. It is the assignment of a remote job by the employer in special cases. He will have to justify it if it is not possible to do the job. An important change is the introduction of occasional remote work not exceeding 24 days per calendar year. Due to its specific nature, certain provisions on remote work will not apply, e.g. the obligation to provide working materials and tools. The project, as I mentioned, also provides for health and safety solutions for work. Of course, we'll eat. Chapter 10 of the Labour Code, excluding, inter alia, the obligation to organise workstations in accordance with regulations, health and safety rules, the obligation to ensure the safe condition of work premises and technical equipment, and the obligation to provide sanitary facilities and personal hygiene equipment. We also introduce initial health and safety training in the Labour Code. They may be carried out by electronic means. In the context of remote work, particularly hazardous work will not be allowed to exceed the permitted standards of physical factors defined for living rooms related to the use of substances harmful to health, e.g. corrosive, radioactive, irritating, sensitising or other odour-deprived where remote work would not be possible. We are also introducing solutions for critical cases. The issue of accidents in remote work has been settled. It is important not only to regulate the work of remote workers employed in workplaces, but also all regulations relating to uniformed services, police officers, Border Guards, State Security Services, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Prison Service, Customs and Treasury Service and firefighters of the State Fire Department serving in remote form. Given the specificities and nature of the tasks carried out by the officers, it would be unjustified to introduce in the laws pragmatic services all solutions related to remote work, which are proposed in the Labour Code. So as far as remote work is concerned, we regulate all solutions for both employees and uniform officers who will also be able to do remote work. With regard to the second solution, concerning the introduction of sobriety checks and checks on the presence of substances similar to alcohol, the project provides, inter alia, for this purpose. the following changes to the Labour Code. The definition of the conditions for the employer to introduce such checks to protect the life and health of workers or other persons or the protection of property, as well as the rules on which the employer will carry out those checks. Imposition of an obligation on the employer not to allow the worker to work if alcohol is found in his body indicating a state of drunkenness or a state of alcohol consumption or a substance acting like alcohol. The employer's obligation not to allow an employee to work also if there is a reasonable suspicion that the worker has been put to work in an intoxicated state, in a state after using alcohol or a substance similar to alcohol, or drinking alcohol or using alcohol. measures at work. Regulation of the procedure for police testing to determine the presence of alcohol or a substance similar to alcohol in the worker's body. Introducing the possibility of appropriate application of the solutions presented to employers organising work carried out by individuals on a different basis than the employment relationship, e.g. under a civil law contract and self-employed persons, if they cooperate with those entities. Completion of a catalogue of reasons justifying the attachment of the staff member to order in the event of entry into service in a state after alcohol use or in a state after use of a substance similar to alcohol or use of such a measure at work. These are the solutions we've proposed when it comes to sobriety testing. These arrangements contained in the Labour Code will also apply to non-employers organizing work carried out by natural persons on a different basis than employment relationships or self-employed individuals. Due to the specific nature of the service relationship, the draft law also proposes separate regulations for the examination of alcohol content or for the presence of another similar measure in the bodies of police officers, Border Guards, State Security Services, Prison Service and firefighters of the State Fire Department. These regulations on sobriety control also stem from previous demands and from extensive discussions within the Social Dialogue Panel. These solutions are also included in the bill. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is proposed that these solutions enter into force 14 days after their publication. In the field of remote work, this means that the proposed legislation will replace the existing provisions of the COVID specialty on the date of entry into force of the law. Therefore, the employer, for example, In the event of an epidemic threat, he will still be able to issue instructions to employees for remote work, but already on the basis of the Labour Code. Moreover, thanks to the short vacathio legis, employees will be able to apply for a remote job, which is not possible in the current legal situation. I therefore ask the High House to continue to proceed with the bill, to refer it to the codification committee and to proceed quickly over it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the draft law amending the law - Labour Code and some other laws. As the Minister said, this project is a solution for two topics, it is intended to achieve two objectives. Firstly, it is intended to enable employers, of course, in justified cases, to introduce preventive control of workers for the presence of alcohol or alcohol-like agents in their bodies. The second topic is to introduce regulation on remote work as a permanent solution. The Minister, presenting the project to us, used the word compromise several times, said that this project was consulted with different environments. I think the word compromise is very important in terms of two regulations. Taking into account what is presented by the environment, the fact that the Ministry, in creating this bill, met the needs, it can be clearly defined that the first solution to enable employers to introduce a survey of workers on whether they are simply sober is certainly from employers. On the other hand, when it comes to the second solution concerning remote work, it is certainly from what they expect, what workers say, that is, remote work in COVID's time formally introduced for this reason... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u298	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u299	Thank you. I heard words that touched me. [[I said the words: some extremely noisy...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u300	I would like to ask you, sir. [[With all due regard...]] Mr President, it was supposed to be peaceful. Mr... You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u301	Thank you, Marshal. On the other hand, as far as the regulations on remote work are concerned, as I said, this work has worked well. and it seems that it needs to be regulated continuously in the law. It seems that the Labour Code is the best place to place these regulations. In both cases, a compromise between the interests of the employer and the worker is very significant and necessary. As regards testing for alcohol or other means, this compromise is needed for this reason so that in cases where necessary, the employer has such instruments and can examine any restrictions on the protection of freedom relating to data protection. The rules need to be designed so that a breathalyzer test, a sobriety test is not a normal harassment of workers, and there is no such thing as: to some kind of mobbing in this area. The second compromise is remote work. Probably for many employees it is more comfortable and you have to balance the interests of employees, not only that they can work at home, because they can often stay home with a sick child, like women, and do not have to take care on the day, which is very beneficial for the employer. But there is also a need to balance the financial interests involved in working at home, the costs that the worker incurs, the costs that he may not incur, and safety solutions, health and safety, and the fact that the worker who is to be at work at the moment is doing work at home. There is also an opinion to this draft law, a proposal for amendments presented by Leviathan. Leviathan is an organization that brings together employers, so these positions are presented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the Minister said, I propose that the draft of this code be sent to the codification committee and, I think, the codification committee will be familiar with all the comments. This solution is needed and the directions which are presented in this project are supported by us, by the Law and Justice. We are counting on this project to be quickly transposed and these provisions to the benefit and benefit of employers, and for workers they will come into force quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u302	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code and some other laws, which are contained in Seym printing No 2335. Changes to the Labour Code are essential. It's obvious, because reality changes rapidly. Under the influence of economic coercion, but also under the influence of geopolitical situations, we face the need to increase multilateralism and speed of solutions, adapting the labour market to current challenges. The changes proposed in the print project No 2335 are governed by the rules on remote work and sobriety control of workers, i.e. introduce the possibility of monitoring the sobriety of workers. The revision of the Labour Code is expected by both employees and employers, in particular due to the need to regulate the rules of the Work Code for remote work. The project includes an extension of the Labour Code to Chapter IIc, which can be titled: Remote work. Its provisions will enable employees to perform their duties in full or in part in the place they indicate and to agree with the employer each time. The agreement on the performance of remote work can be agreed both when the contract is concluded and during the period of validity of the contract. The revision of the Labour Code also introduces provisions on the agreement between the employer and the trade union organisations or employees' representatives on the rules for remote work. The regulations adopted should include, inter alia, how to control the performance of work, health and safety of work and the protection of information. The proposal also takes into account the obligations that will lie on the employer's side, i.e. provision of tools and materials for work, as well as installation, service, maintenance of equipment, energy costs and telecommunications service to the extent necessary for distance work. High Izbo! In the current legal situation, employers cannot independently carry out sobriety checks. The proposed law takes into account employers' demands and introduces this possibility in cases where this is necessary to ensure the protection of the lives and health of workers, other persons or the protection of property. The employer will be able to carry out a check using methods that do not require laboratory testing. This is the way to ensure that the test is carried out with as little interference as possible in the personal interests of the employee. The project assumes that the regulations on the control of employees will be included in the relevant sources of labour law, i.e. in the labour regulations, collective agreements, in the relevant employer notices. High Izbo! However, after reading the project, there are many doubts on the part of both workers and employers. An article that specifies the exclusion of remote work needs to be clarified. In practice, how are we supposed to understand the concepts of tedious smells or intense soiling? There are indications that the proposed regulations may make it difficult for employers to keep employee records. The principles of compensation for the costs incurred by the employee in carrying out remote work are also matters for clarification. Consideration should also be given to increasing the dimension of occasional remote work. Moreover, the period of entry into force of the Act is too short for such far-reaching changes. The key issue is to extend the vacathio legis, I think, to at least 3 months. The Civic Coalition Club, on behalf of which I am acting, requests that the project be directed to further work in the codification committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u304	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Left Club, let me present my club position. The law itself should and should adapt Polish legislation to two European Union directives on foreseeable working conditions in the European Union and on the balance between working life and private parents and carers. After 2 years of working on the regulation of remote work in the Labour Code, the government handed over a proposal to the Sejm on this matter. The bill provides for the new legislation to enter into force 14 days after its publication. That's not enough. Unless there is a transitional provision whereby employers using remote work on the basis of a recommendation will have much longer time to implement the new rules. The draft contained in Seym printing No 2335 entered the Sejm on 7 June, and on 8 June was directed to the first reading at the Sejm meeting. Employers, trade unions and employees can only now read the final version. The draft law amending the Law - Labour Code and some other laws provides for the possibility of introducing preventive checks of workers on the presence of alcohol or similar agents and the introduction of regulation of remote work as a permanent solution. The previous version of the project provided that the new rules would apply 3 months after the outbreak was cancelled, regardless of the introduction of an epidemic risk. Even then, employers called for more time to prepare for change. However, the latest draft amendment only provides for two weeks to implement these changes in workplaces. This is far too little for both employers and workers and trade unions to agree on any regulation. The lack of comprehensive transitional provisions, especially in the field of remote work, proposed entry into force of the new rules as early as 14 days after publication in the Official Journal of the Laws will be a major obstacle and even impossible to implement in such a short period of time. At the same time, COVID rules will be repealed to enable employers to single-handedly direct workers to work remotely within the same period. The only basis for remote work will therefore be the revised Labour Code. For many employers this deadline is impossible to implement. The introduction of remote work according to the new definition will require a number of actions by employers, including among others. the establishment of rules for remote work, the preparation of rules for remote work, the conclusion of an agreement with trade unions and, in the absence thereof, with representatives. In such a case, undertakings which do not have such representatives or have been chosen only to perform certain activities will first have to select such representatives in the election of the crew. This is usually the case in local authorities, and this requires time, the development of new health and safety rules in connection with remote work, the review of internal regulations related to the protection of personal data and the confidentiality of information, and possible changes taking into account the nature of new remote work. There will also be severe sanctions. If the employer implements remote work without carrying out an occupational risk assessment in accordance with the requirements set out in the new Article. 67 The legislator, predicting such a short vacathio legis, will cause a big problem. It can be expected that in most companies and local governments the initial period of application of the new rules will be a fiction. At this point, no employer entered into a dialogue with trade union organisations or employees' representatives, because in common sense, we look forward to the final form of regulation. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the bone of disagreement in the Social Dialogue Council was precisely the reimbursement of the costs of remote work, and the lack of statutory rules for its establishment makes it a matter of evaluation and often of great doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u306	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A suitable solution would therefore be a sufficiently long vacathio legis linked to the end of the epidemic and the end of the next 3 months. The law could therefore enter into force 3 months after the outbreak situation ceased. For this period, employers could continue to use COVID remote work solutions. Nothing would change here in view of the current situation. They'd have enough time to prepare for change. On the other hand, if the state of emergency were to turn into an epidemic, the current rules would still apply and new solutions would have to wait again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since the government did not consider it appropriate to regulate remote work under the Labour Code for two years, employers can wait a few more months. We therefore request that this project be directed to further work in the codification committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I am pleased to present to you the position of my club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the law - Labour Code and some other laws from print no.2335. This project - as it has already been emphasized - entered the Sejm on 7 June this year, and on 8 June it was directed to first reading. The project concerns the creation of a basis for the employer to introduce, where necessary for the protection of certain preventive goods, the control of workers for the presence in their body of alcohol or substances similar to alcohol. The project is also scheduled to settle remote work in the Labour Code for a time after the pandemic. Work on these new rules has been ongoing since 2020 and the project has been a few. The Pandemia has shown that remote work is needed, so the draft law amending the Labour Code and some other laws regulates this remote work in part, because it clearly defines the definition of remote work, the method of agreeing remote work, sets out its rules, clearly states the employer's right to control remote work during working hours. However, here employers have many reservations and I hope that they will be taken into account at a further stage of work on this project. A good solution in this project is to provide remote work as support for parents. As a result, a pregnant worker or a parent raising a child up to 4 years old or a disabled child and an employee - the parent of a child having the right opinion about the need for early support for the development of the child will be able to apply to the employer for a remote job. These are the good solutions contained in this project. They still require changes and legislative work and, of course, the vacathio legis needs to be clarified. Employers often report that it is far too short that it will be difficult to put these changes into effect if it lasts for 2 weeks. The Polish-Polish People's Party Coalition Club will be in favour of referring this bill to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u310	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u311	God's greetings to people of all kinds, and those who do not work, do not eat either! When I took this project into hand - he is justified by the category of the larger ones - at first glance it seemed to me that the point was that you wanted to legally warn people not to drink in remote work. And I wasn't really wrong. That's where you count cops, firefighters, safety guys. Another thing is whether in practice it can be enforced, but you've invented enforcement tools. But when I read deeper into this project, I realized that this is a pandemic+, 2.0, turbo. We're in a deep pandemic state and paraphrasing a classic, and we're starting to get better and better in that state. You've created a variety of problems, you've prevented people from doing normal work, you've introduced lockdowns, quarantine, masking, testing, drugging. You terrorized the nation and worked out well, and now you're offering a wide variety of facilities. That sounds pretty cool to me. I have a problem, I'm gonna agree with my employer, I'm not gonna come to work, I'm gonna work on a computer on a stool in the kitchen, but in a normal life, until you entered the scene, things like that were done like a man with a man, in normal human relationships. You have led these relationships to such an abnormal state that it needs to be regulated, and now for some it will be a good offer and they will not notice that there is a transaction. I mean, it's temporary and it's apparent for allowing deeper interference in privacy, in the privacy of the home, in our lives. You regulate - let's see - procedures that allow you to enter with a breathalyzer or with various other devices there, to take samples of body fluids for analysis, for expertise, or by accident an officer who has arranged to meet with a superior officer, that he will stay at home and be there, right, googled himself in the job, of course, as part of his duty or not to be wasted. I do not, of course, support the states of drunkenness and different states of consciousness in any work, especially as responsible as uniformed services - public, secret, but (the bell) I oppose the institutionalization of this gate no longer, but of the entire gate, which the people's power, under the pretext of fighting a pandemic and facilitating people's lives, enters our privacy. That's why I'm gonna go further. I'm not gonna ask you to send this project to the committee. I'm gonna ask you to throw it in the trash. Come back with something human. If you think that it is necessary to regulate, then do not suspect me that you are simply preparing a new solution for a new pandemic, which has already been announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki and President Biden. I request that the project be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u313	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The changes in the Labour Code are expected and this presentation is very important, especially since our home legal solutions in this area are quite strong and are becoming more and more distant from Europe. I don't feel like we're in a hurry to join Europe. We appreciated remote work during the pandemic. Through the mobilisation of workers and employers, we were all able to function somehow. You really don't have to sit in an office to be effective. This truth has been known for a long time in corporations and has recently become obvious to other sectors as well. What is supposed to be flexible in principle is bad for stiff corsets. In the introduction we see a very strong formalization of the remote work model - that is, the need to agree each time a remote job or e.g. certain reservations about the dimension of this work. E.g. on the so-called. accidental remote operation is indicated 24 days per year. It's very little. Before the pandemic, the so-called standard. homework was 1 day a week, and that gives 52 days a year. This can make this right change work in a limited way. Similarly, there is a second major direction of change - the ability to control workers in terms of sobriety at work. This is a very important request from employers' organisations for many years. But the devil is in the details again. The employer must assess the necessity of this check for the life and health of other workers or others. How can we prove such necessity? It will be very, very difficult for employers to take such risks, given that they will have to face the reaction of the employee, not necessarily a reaction in the workplace here and now, sometimes a reaction in some judicial horizon. If we give employers such a tool that is intended to serve the safety of all, then let it be operational and be versatile in use. To conclude, I am very pleased that we are finally working on the Labour Code, especially since we have a lot of work to do on this document. In the queue they are waiting, just to remind you, the European Parliament directive on whistleblowers - we were obliged to adopt it at the end of last year - the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions, the directive on the balance between work and life outside work, which is called work-life balance. I hope that we will see all these documents here in the plenary room as soon as possible. Of course, we will work hard to get this document out of committee in the best condition possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u314	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. There is no Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing a draft law from print no.2335 concerning the Labour Code. I have a very short question, and I would like you to be kind enough to answer it in writing. What trade unions has this particular printing been consulted with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u316	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have these records dealt with partly and regulated problems of alcohol and people under its influence who want to engage in professional activities. I wanted to ask, however, what about the whole range of other drugs commonly used. Should an employer be able to fully and accurately control people who are entrusted with the lives of other people or assets often worth millions of zlotys? I would very much ask the Minister to answer the question of what is the vision of the Ministry in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u319	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you two questions. First: What are technical and local conditions for remote work, and who provides them? Is it the purchase of a proper desk, a staff chair, or other appropriate things such as a footrest or a monitor stand? Whether it's a big enough room, or whether it's the number of residents of the employee's house per 1 m Second question. The concept of paper form appears throughout the bill. What is she? How can you make a paper statement? We're talking about this form, for example. with regard to the employee's familiarisation with personal data protection procedures or health and safety training. It seems that in the Polish legal order we have written form and equivalent form, i.e. qualified electronic signature or document form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u320	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u321	So far, remote work as such works. Fortunately, because you haven't written all these regulations yet. We're on our way to ruin it. As I read about the fact that now it will be necessary to establish a place of work, carry out risk assessments, local conditions, we are clearly on the path towards making it completely unattractive, as is the employment contract, which is an example of pathological overregulation. So this is an initiative from the cycle: What else is there to spoil? I am wondering about some specific regulations, such as: that the employer is to ensure that the employee does not have a sense of alienation and that he is allowed to work at the workplace. What if they make another appointment? How will they agree that there is no workplace at all, that everything is in remote mode? What's the idea of messing with things like that anyway? And this sobriety check... The employer should simply terminate (the bell) a contract with someone who doesn't suit him, not examine him with a breathalyzer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u322	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Frydrych. There isn't. Mrs Urszula Augustyn. There isn't either. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are two questions. First of all, the consistency of both parts. It's about sobriety, sobriety on the job. I think there's going to be some difficulty here. And the second thing, too, that sounded earlier, is the issue of health and safety training, especially initial training. I understand that it will address the various dangers that occur in the apartment, and knowledge of a remote job apartment, if someone works from their own home... The question is whether it will continue to be necessary at this point to provide initial health and safety training on the risks that occur in the workplace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the changes that the State introduces in the trial contracts. You are very strong in formalising these probationary contracts, in particular making the duration of such a probationary contract conditional on the employer's intention to conclude another fixed-term contract. I don't get it. The trial period is a trial period and he has both sides in the employment relationship to show whether they are suitable for each other to continue this relationship. That's the first question. The second question concerns vacathio legis. Vacatio legis is indecently short. Remember what all the HR departments, what all the human resources management departments went through during the pandemic, when the rules changed like in kaleidoscope and all the personnel, all the wagers had to respond to those constantly changing regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It really took a lot of people to get involved. It would be very useful in this law for longer vacathio legis, which will enable employers to prepare for the implementation of the new rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u326	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all clubs for supporting solutions for remote work, as well as enabling employers to examine sobriety. We will then vote on the motion for rejection. I don't think he has any justification, but it's been filed. As far as questions are concerned, I will once again remind you of the general principle of these changes that we are making regarding remote work. She's really supposed to be based on an agreement between the employees and the employer. That is the main objective of this action. So an employer who dates an employee for a kind of remote work, because it could be hybrid work: part of the remote work, part of the work in normal mode, in the workplace, will have several opportunities. It will be possible to agree this with the worker when he is admitted to work, and it will also be possible to regulate it in the framework of an agreement between trade unions or employee representation. And that's a general condition when it comes to entrusting remote work. The second point is, of course, issues related to these special solutions. It's about situations where employees, for example. in the case of pregnant women, mothers raising children up to the age of 4 or parents caring for disabled children or disabled persons, they will apply to the employer for a remote job. In this case, the employer will not be able to refuse, and if he refuses, he will have to justify the reason for refusing such work. In the context of this discussion, I think that this is a very good solution, which will enable these situations to work remotely to those whom I have mentioned. On the other hand, the employer in the crisis situations we are currently dealing with, with the COVID, will be able to entrust such work to the employee. There were also discussions on the determination of costs. This discussion also took place in the work of the Social Dialogue Council team. Here I also answer the question of what representative relationships we are working with in the Council of Social Dialogue. It concerns both the trade union and the trade union of OPZZ, as well as the forum that took part in the talks. As I said, this is a compromise between employers and trade unions. E.g. Therefore, we have not determined the amount to be, so to speak, recorded directly in the Act, but, under the agreement, the parties must agree on the cost of the work which the employer will have to bear. When it comes to health and safety, the worker must indicate whether his place of work is suitable for the job. If an employee says that this is not the case, then of course the employer will not be able to entrust him with remote work, because, as I said, this must be done on an agreement basis. Mr Grammar asked two questions. The first thing isn't in this bill. This is the next law on changes to the Labour Code, but it is still in consultation, so that in this law, as far as trial periods are concerned, there are no such records. This doesn't apply to this bill, so I'm explaining it right away. It'll be in the future, if you ask me a question, then we'll answer it. But this project isn't here yet. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Like I said, it's not on this project. Very many threads concerning the date of entry into force of the Act. Where did the changes come from? Because the original project was after three months of end of epidemic or epidemic threat. Here, after the introduction of a short vacathio legis, there are still provisions relating to the state of epidemic danger, i.e. the employer will still be able to benefit from the solutions that are at the moment, but by shortening this deadline to 14 days, we make it easier in this case for the people I was talking about, mothers raising children up to 4 years old or pregnant women, or parents who care for disabled children, that they will be able to apply to the employer for such work in the short term. So this is a solution that benefits employees. Let me remind you that we have been working remotely for two years, i.e. employers are already prepared. It is not that at one point everyone has to make such decisions, because after all, this directory will be open, remote work can be entrusted at any time, it doesn't have to be at the moment, but during the entire period of these changes it will be possible to entrust remote work, at different times, as I have already said. Whether it's permanent remote work or hybrid work, these solutions will be applied. So that I thank you for this discussion, also for your questions about the date of entry into force of the law. If, at a committee meeting, there are still requests for extension, we are open to such a solution to possibly extend this 14-day period of entry into force of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u328	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment includes regulations on the introduction of the possibility for the employer to verify whether the worker in the workplace is under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. Importantly, this obligation is also intended to include workers performing their duties remotely. However, the experts of the Polish Employers point out that in practice the implementation of these records can be very difficult. What is the designer's position with regard to the doubts raised in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u330	High Izbo! Preventive control of workers' presence in their bodies of alcohol or alcohol-like agents in the case of work, and in particular those requiring high safety standards, may be necessary to ensure an adequate level of safety for all workers. Please explain what type of equipment the employer will be able to use and whether there is an obligation to legalise such equipment, and if the equipment has to be legalized, what will be the cost of this legalization. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u331	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the law - Labour Code, Act - Penal Code implementing the law - Bank law and the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks (print No. 1696). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to provide a justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House, prepared by the petition committee, a draft law amending the law - Labour Code, the law - Penal Code implementing the law - Bank law and the law on cooperative savings banks. The bill is relatively short, and I will present it in a moment. But this is the result of a petition addressed to the Sejm, which was brought on 30 July 2019 by a natural person. The purpose of this petition was precisely to request an initiative to amend the existing rules on judicial and administrative enforcement. Let me get this straight. And the objective is to increase the effectiveness of the investigation. The draft of this legal act was also included in the petition itself, except that the effect of this law is already the effect of the committee's work and in detail this project is slightly different from the project that was introduced, but it is essentially the same project. Rather, the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was drawn up for this project. This opinion also shows the need to amend the enforcement provisions. The petitioning committee has also sent a deziderate to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice also pointed out in response to the dissertation that the amendment of these provisions was justified and, at the same time, pointed out that no changes were envisaged in the near future. Therefore, the petition committee considered that it would submit an appropriate bill. The bill consists of a total of six articles. The idea of this project is to increase the effectiveness of executions, both administrative executions and various other executions, because there are other provisions concerning the execution of alimony, so other than the execution of alimony. In the current legislation, the protection of the debtor is based on minimum remuneration for work. The author of this petition requested that the minimum wage should not be fully protected, but only 85% of it. On the other hand, he pointed out that this minimum wage is increasingly far from certain basic minimum living costs or the minimum social costs, or if, in some other way, to name the minimum value that is needed to sustain the debtor. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 This is a question of execution from the remuneration of convicted persons and here is a change in the Enforcement Penal Code. At present, it's 60%. salary, while the author proposes to change up to 50% salaries. In banking law, where the enforcement of savings or settlement accounts is protected, the author proposes to replace 75% ¿50 per cent ¿. And art. 4 - he's the same as Art. 3, except that it concerns cooperative savings and credit banks, i.e. SKOKs. Since it is regulated in two different laws, these two different laws need to be amended, I will no longer be able to comment on it. Art. 5 indicates that the provisions of the laws amended in these four Articles in the wording of this Act, which have been initiated and not completed before the entry into force of this Act, are applicable and that there is a proposal that the vacathio legis in this case be 6 months. Opinions have also been received concerning this particular printing no. 1696 - from the Confederation of Leviatan, from the National Bank of Poland, from NSZZ ¿Solidarity, from OPZZ, from the Supreme Court. The government's position has also come in, and may I quote a passage: Having regard to the above, the Council of Ministers welcomes the Commission's draft law amending the Law - Labour Code, the Law - Penal Code implementing the Law - Bank Law and the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks, print no. 1696, however, provided that the current form requires further refinement in such a way as to take into account certain reservations that have been indicated by the Ministry. So much for me, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u333	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the law - Labour Code, Act - Penal Code implementing the law, Act - Bank law and Act on cooperative savings and credit registers, Print No. 1696. The project concerns an increase in the effectiveness of judicial and administrative executions other than maintenance and a change in the amounts free from deductions in the execution of remuneration for work and from the bank account and from the cooperative credit and savings bank account. The proposed amendments aim to increase the effectiveness of these executions and complement the legislative measures taken so far to improve their effectiveness. Low efficiency of judicial and administrative executions is due, among others. an increase in minimum wage in recent years. The amount of amounts free of execution from pay for work and the bank account linked to the minimum remuneration makes the number of debtors which cannot be subject to an effective enforcement procedure constantly increasing. There are pathological cases of employment with minimum remuneration, which is free of deductions, and the remaining part of the remuneration is received in a non-registered manner. As a result, there is a growing number of creditors who do not have a chance of recovering the lost money. Thus, the current rules form the legal basis for protecting wages for work, which in practice does not correspond to the current economic reality and violates the principle of balance between the rights of the holders of their debts and the preservation of the rights of debtors. The rules unintendedly favour a group of debtors, making them privileged. The solutions proposed in the draft aim to limit the extent of injustice to the equal fulfilment of the commitments made. At the same time, they allow debtors to preserve the means necessary to live. However, the new rules should also take account of the life situation of debtors, and therefore the lack of differentiation between, for example, should be eliminated in the course of further legislative work. a self-employed person with a minimum wage for the work of a few persons family and a minimum earner with dependent parents, etc. In addition, the project assumes that the amount free of execution from remuneration for work will be reduced by 15%. , and in respect of the execution of a bank account or an account held in favour of a member of a cooperative credit and savings bank, the amount free of seizure will be reduced by more than 33%. It is therefore worth discussing the harmonisation of these disparities. In summary, the solutions contained in the proposed bill will reduce the possibility of avoiding liability for commitments made. They will have a positive impact on the legal situation of creditors who are both entrepreneurs and natural persons. Given the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u335	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u336	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are discussing today, prepared by the petition committee, is extremely important for several groups. It is very important for a group of debtors because it is intended to reduce the amount that is protected from judicial or administrative execution today. On the other hand, it is intended to increase the effectiveness of enforcement in order to improve the situation of creditors. This is also of great importance, given that the effectiveness of executions has been steadily decreasing over recent years. If we assume that in 2020 the total amount of funds that were recovered by creditors through execution amounted to more than PLN 9 billion, in 2021 it was almost PLN 1 billion lower. This shows that the increase in the minimum wage amount, as well as the various types of procedures involving the collection of remuneration, is not necessarily disclosed, i.e. the so-called. Paying under the table makes it difficult for creditors to recover their debts. This, of course, also affects the functioning of the economy, particularly in the trade of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, I have not found anywhere data on the percentage of the recovery of these funds, the amounts that relate to the Treasury's claims, the amounts that involve the recovery of debts for entrepreneurs or individuals, and it is also worth knowing these dependencies. Therefore, when working on the petition submitted by the committee, we should draw attention to the balance between the interest of the debtor and the interest of the creditor, the balance which has been quite clearly affected in favour of the debtor. Creditors today find themselves in a much more difficult, worse situation. On the other hand, when I realise that this project has entered the High House at the end of the previous term, and we are only looking at it today, this situation also makes us look at the issue of minimum remuneration and the position of debtors. The rise in inflation, the difficult economic situation, the high prices, in short: expensive, causes that very often debtors, these honest debtors, have significant problems with debt collection. Putting them in even more difficult situations now can really cause very serious problems in their personal or family life, as they often have other people to support. This, too, must be taken into consideration during our deliberations. The issue of the different percentage shots was mentioned in terms of reducing the amount that is protected in the case of pay for work, in the case of pay for the work of prisoners or in the case of financial activities relating to bank accounts or individual accounts on savings and credit accounts. We also need to consider whether this difference has to be that much, whether there should be any difference at all, and in which direction this alignment should be going, whether towards this smaller, 15% reduction, or more than 30% reduction. This is linked to the questions that arise and affects both the group of debtors and the group of creditors, but also those of the employees involved in the collection of debts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to forward this proposal to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr PiS has already presented, actually read, the entire justification of this project, which is why it makes no sense to go back to it and repeat it, because we have actually heard it twice, also from the applicant. On the other hand, there are two aspects that Mr Zwiefka also addressed in his speech. The left always focuses on the situation of the least-endowed. And if someone earns a minimum salary, the same wording that this is a minimum wage means that it really is not a high salary, it is not a big salary, and it is at a time when we have this economic situation and the instalments of loans grow from month to month by several hundred zlotys. Most people with mortgage loans have increased by 1 000. Evil, and even more. This means that the financial possibilities of Poles and Poles in terms of fulfillment of commitments are actually decreasing. Most Poles and Poles do not have any savings or have savings that allow to survive actually 2 weeks, 1 month, up to 3 months, no financial resources. Therefore, I fear that, in the current situation, if such a project were to enter into force and it would turn out that not all minimum wage is protected from bail-out but only 85% of it. This could cause an even greater scourge of insolvency, homelessness and the fact that these liabilities will not be paid voluntarily. We suggest that this project be directed towards further work, to improve it, to look at it in terms of statistical data that neither the applicant nor the representative of the Committee on Petitions has presented to us. I think we need to talk about this. I think that this project should be better and should anticipate situations which must resist the fall of Poles and Poles into a loop of debt, which unfortunately often ends only with homelessness. That's what we'd definitely want to avoid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u339	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law is the response of the Committee on Petitions to a petition by a natural person. The aim of this law is to increase the effectiveness of judicial and administrative execution by amending four laws: the Labour Code, the Enforcement Penal Code, banking law and cooperative savings and credit banks. The amendments are justified by the applicant by the low effectiveness of judicial and administrative execution, which unduly protects debtors, making their financial situation better than the situation of creditors, which should be considered unfair. The regulation will have a positive impact on creditors, both entrepreneurs and individuals. In particular, the submission contains proposals to amend the provisions allowing enforcement of non-maintenance claims at a higher level in respect of deductions-free amounts, in the context of the execution of remuneration for work, including convicted or embedded remuneration, and from the bank account and account held at the SKOK. In the case of remuneration for work, the amount free of execution is now the minimum remuneration. This amount is reduced to 85% of this remuneration. In the case of remuneration of the sentenced person, the amount free of execution shall be reduced to 60%. up to 50% minimum wage. It would be important to consider whether the limits should not be even stricter. The funds collected in bank accounts and SKOK accounts were free from deductions up to 50% And now it's 75%. As a former recovery specialist, I believe that these solutions are, in principle, right. People should take responsibility for their commitments, pay their debts, pay back the money they borrowed. However, it is worse when someone falls into debt not because of their own fault, and this is the situation that we may face today by irresponsible financial policy of the ruling team. With inflation so galloping, the project will hit people who tried to conduct their own finances responsibly, but such an increase in loan instalments were not able to imagine. To sum up, this presentation, which the government will certainly support, will be the most helpful for the banks. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You'd like to scream, "In citizens, power!" Because on July 30, 2019 Mr.Kamil Łagocki petitioned the Sejm in the public interest. He considered that there was a need to amend the Labour Code, the Enforcement Criminal Code, the Banking Law and the Law on cooperative savings and credit registers in order to increase the effectiveness of judicial and administrative executions. Once again, it is worth highlighting the civic power of petitions. Sejm bows to the author. Bravo, Mr. Kamil! Besides, it is not the first time in this term that the Sejm will adopt the bill by means of a petition by Mr Kamil Łagocki. In the petition, he pointed out that the proposed proposal was an important complement to the legislative action taken so far and a comprehensive solution to the problems which were also recognised in the case law. E.g. The judgment of the Provincial Administrative Court in Gdansk states that effective enforcement of the law is one of the most important tasks of the democratic rule of law. In the opinion of the applicant, only the indication of new amounts free of deduction in the execution of remuneration for work and claims from a bank account or an account held for the benefit of a member of the cooperative savings and credit bank may fully comply with the demands of the legislator. The proposed law will undoubtedly contribute to a decisive improvement in the effectiveness of judicial and administrative enforcement. The petitioner stresses that statistics on the effectiveness of executions are unsatisfactory. It gives an example: the effectiveness of judicial enforcement, which is understood as the ratio of cases fully enforced to the number of cases which have occurred, is around 20% and the ratio of amounts executed to the amounts notified is around 12%. The Council of Ministers in the State's Multiannual Financial Plan for the years 2019-2022 also pointed to the problem of poor efficiency of administrative execution. The proposed law, according to Mr Kamil Ładzki, will increase the prestige of the state and will have a positive impact on the economy and revenues of the public finance sector. At the same time, it should be stressed that the objectives of this draft law cannot be achieved in any other way and that the legislative action taken so far has not produced the expected results. These are good, interesting proposals, which Kamil Lodzki, once again emphasized, included in the petition. as a result of his internship in court. That's when the idea of this particular petition was born. Once again bowed down to the author. Mr. Marshal, the High Seym, in the citizens of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to add themselves to the list? If not, I would like to inform you that five Members, or actually five Members, have signed up. Mr Rafał Adamczyk will be the first to speak. Absent. But he is a reliable Mr Jan Szopiński, whom I cordially invite to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that a citizen wants his money back as quickly as possible, and it's hard to blame him for that. However, can we condemn millions of the poorest Poles to homelessness, extreme poverty, or even death as a result of e.g. Abandoning medication? It is not possible to take away from people the resources that have been calculated as the minimum necessary for their operation. Can this be done especially during the period of catastrophic inflation and horror, which Polish families are experiencing due to the uncontrolled increase in food, heating and electricity prices in no way? We need to ask ourselves if we want to bring about a humanitarian tragedy in order to make people freeze in their homes in the winter. The debts must definitely be paid, but not at the cost of the debtor's life. We need to think about the provisions (the bell) of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u345	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u346	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's never a good time. There's always something going on in the country, in the world, and this time is not the best. Here, I think Mr Tadeusz said a very good sentence: this is a balance between the debtor and the creditor. This is very difficult to achieve, but I think we need to think about it. Each of us, I think, knows a broken marriage. They come with alimony cases that are not downloaded or enforced. Gigantic problems arise, debts. I would also like to draw your attention to one aspect. Namely, today young people travel abroad to avoid this problem. Then the problem grows even more, the trace disappears, which also increases the scale of this phenomenon. Balance between the debtor (the bell) and the creditor - I think you need to think about it and that the project is worth paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u348	All of Poland in debt. Whoever didn't have a debt, throw the first stone. Whoever didn't answer the monits, who didn't answer the phone, or maybe the intercom, with the bailiff on the other side, throw the first stone. On the one hand, we have the drama of a nation robbed and oppressed so many times, now oppressed not by the occupational, possessive power, but by fiscal exploitation. The winded spiral of inflation raises our minimum wage. President Kaczyński in the campaign in 2019 predicted as a future achievement of his government that the minimum wage would exceed 4 000. We're on our way. Apparently, he must've known something a few years before. It's a minimum wage or even a minimum wage. Minister, Mr (Ring) reporter, have you considered the absurdity of this category? Because what's different is the minimum wage in Szczecin, and what's different is in Przemyśl. If you are already digging into these matters at the initiative of a good, vigilant citizen, would it not be worth considering whether the minimum wage is to be calculated centrally or even in the district? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch closes the list of Members of the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Perhaps, by the way, since I commended citizens a few minutes ago, in the citizens of power, I will ask this question: How many petitions are currently being sent from the Sejm and Senate to the ministry on which the Ministry is working? And is it true, as some petitioners say, that the work in the ministry sometimes takes a very long, very long time, and even the petitioners make the way to the Parliament's plenary room difficult? If you don't know exactly at the moment, please answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer questions because the position of the Council of Ministers of the High Chamber has received a positive position, with reservations. Undoubtedly, the project is desirable, it introduces the desired solution for effective enforcement of the right to court. The proposal, despite the reservations we have with regard to these proposals, is worthy of further work on the committee. On the other hand, I would like to refer to certain matters that have fallen from the platform and which do not necessarily have the merit of truth. With regard to left-wing sensitivity, please note that what else is the minimum social and what else is the minimum wage. The minimum wage should not be a minimum social wage, but maybe it should be higher. The social minimum is determined by one of the research institutes subordinate to the Minister of Family and Social Policy for about PLN 1200-1300 in recent research. The minimum wage in turn this year is PLN 3010 and next year, as announced, will be PLN 3450. And given these absolute figures, the proposal to reduce the amount free of seizure from a minimum of 85% It also requires a minimum look at this proposal in the amount value. That is, given the minimum net, we are dealing with approx. 2200-2300 PLN and even more, taking into account different tax changes, while following a minimum wage increase of up to 3450 PLN, taking into account the tax changes and taking into account the possible entry into force of this project, i.e. 85% minimum wage, this amount will still be higher. And that's something important that needs to be taken into account. On the other hand, in the area of petitions, the Member seems to have confused the procedure, because the projects which are dealt with as a result of petitions are taken by various parliamentary committees, are petitions addressed to the Sejm, to Parliament, so that the Member may, in full right, obtain the information he was asking from the Parliamentary Speaker, from your marshals. It is about the full statistics, how many of these petitions have been given a run, how many of them have turned into projects that the High House can adopt. They will be available to your marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! The government welcomes this project, although with these two reservations. That is, consideration must be given to the level of reduction of this ceiling, because in one case we have a reduction of 100%. minimum up to 85%, i.e. 15 percentage points. In the second case we have a reduction from 75% to 30%, i.e. 33%. Therefore, it would require an applicant... Neither the petitioner nor the committee referred to this issue, from which the change in proportion that was proposed. The second proposal developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is the proposal to take into account the advantages of this person's home, i.e. whether he has children to depend on, whether it is a single-person farm, because it makes a difference. Therefore, it could be considered whether, at times, a certain mechanism should not be introduced, in which the amount free of seizure would be increased e.g. 5 percentage points. But, of course, these issues will involve further work on the committee. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. Is the representative of the applicants going to take the floor? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The petition committee also discussed whether the minimum wage was a good indicator of the situation of the person concerned, whether he was able to pay or not to pay his commitment without violating the basic needs of living, living needs. And there must be some differences in full agreement, sir. It was and is raised in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which is attached to this petition. On the other hand, as a member of the petition committee, let me explain why this question may not fully reflect the quality of petitions that come to the petition committee. Part of the petition is rejected only because work is underway in some committee and this petition is attached, e.g. the request for a petition shall be accompanied by those legislative amendments to be made in the near future. Since the Ministry was interested, it adds a petition request to an already existing or in the final phase of the project. Then the answer will be that the petition was rejected, although it was actually accepted. A similar situation occurs in the case of different cleaning changes, when e.g. in some law, there is a reference to another law which has been repealed. It's about that sort of thing. Sometimes it doesn't give rise to direct legal problems. That's why we have a dissertation. The Ministry responds: yes, indeed, it is. We'll do it on the first shift. Also here in the statistics will be the information that this has been rejected, while in fact this petition has been accepted. I'm sure it's much better than the statistics show. Statistics are burdened with error. The point is, what was taken over by the ministry is whether or not to accept the answer to the dissertation. If we accept positive answers to the dissertation, this means that the petition has been taken into account, sir. Of course, it is possible to get statistics from the petition committee. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u355	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u356	High Izbo! The draft law presented by the Commission concerns an increase in the effectiveness of judicial and administrative executions other than maintenance and a change in the amounts free from deductions in the execution of remuneration for work and from the bank account and from the cooperative credit and savings bank account. The adoption of a draft law, according to the applicants, may have a positive effect on companies, private individuals and in the event of revenue to various public entities. Please explain whether the government has analysed the possible financial consequences following the adoption of the project in order to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of companies and private individuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u357	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Labour Code, the Law - Criminal Code implementing the Law - Bank law and the Act on cooperative savings and credit registers, contained in print No. 1696, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 57th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? So far, it looks like no one's made a statement. But you're here. Mrs Wanda Nowicka. There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The House was deserted, which is understandable. We're adjourned. There is no place in this House or in any part of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland where it is possible to respond urgently to the various threats that appear on the horizon. In the parliamentary statement, I would like to dictate to the minutes, ladies and gentlemen, that I am concerned about coming to Warsaw - once again this season - Mr David Harris, the head of something called the American Jewish Committee - the American Jewish Committee. I think Mr. Harris might be called a regular by now. Relations with him, I hear, as I recall, are maintained for years by the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland. For years he has also been a swordsman of the Jewish interest, acting mainly on the other side of the globe, on that side. The point is that these are - as we know from historical experience - very serious matters. Hitting that string often causes a wolf out of the woods and... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it clear to me that you've allocated a minute for your message, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u359	No, I didn't spare a minute. You'll have as much time as you need to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u360	No? Shall we go on? Great. Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. I think it's interesting and developmental. So it happens that when we ask about these matters, they tell us that this is courtesy, diplomacy, that we should not spoil these sensitive matters in Polish-Jewish relations with some critical remarks, excessive suspicion. Then, when it comes to what, it's going away - e.g. to the other side of the globe - Warsaw officials, Belgian president or prime minister even visit ad lime at the headquarters of Jewish organizations in the United States. So, although we are not dealing with the head of any state or even the head, sometimes it seems that the tail of a merda dog and that these are perhaps the most important things for the future and for the wealth of Poles. Of course, I am returning here to the issue of Act 447, which is this infamous bill, declaration, American legislature, which we have fought, as we could. Of course, it's the so-called. claims, claims, i.e. the law of kaduka enforced property concessions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u361	We're on our way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u362	It's just a demand for money. It seemed to have vanished for a moment, gone to the second, third plan. And we were assured of this by government representatives. Meanwhile, I think he's coming back. And now I'm rhyming this visit from Mr. Harris with the grunt advertising by, it seems, Minister Sellin's assertiveness, whose sudden tide we can observe in relations with the Jews, on the episode of Auschwitz-Birkenau excursions, Mossad bodyguards coming to us with their guns. And now the PiS government is advertising that now it's going to be very assertive. It took years, better than never. But...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u363	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u364	One last thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u365	Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u366	One last question, Mr. Marshal. I am asking a question which, of course, will remain rhetorical tonight, whether the planting of Mr.Kościński, the great return of Kościński to the government, on such a sensitive episode as armory shopping, which, as you know, can be a cover for any size of financial transfers, whether there is anything to do with the other, with the third. Act 447, war in Ukraine, extortion of Jews towards Poles, perhaps broadcast to Ukraine. Smell the ghost! Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the claims are returning. And really this postscriptum, my swallows reported that in Washington, Ambassador Magierowski was engaged - of course, in secret from the Polish public, I do not know whether openly for the whole government - in negotiating the payment of imaginary Jewish claims under blackmail over the years and that they were somehow pre-quoted for a certain amount in billions. I don't know anymore, but all this, ladies and gentlemen, should light an alarm light for all Polish patriots. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u367	It is worth asking, sir, these swallows in this matter. I'm saying it's worth asking these swallows in a little bit more detail, because the question is, if it's real, it's extremely interesting. [[I'm glad I interested your marshal.]] And you will be digging up the issue of information from swallows? [[Voice from the room: U ornithologist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Of course, I do not neglect the opportunity, but I think that the Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland has incomparably serious tools to investigate at least the answers to well placed questions in this matter. So a well placed question would be and maybe I will ask it in the manner of a public report: Does the government of the Republic of Poland negotiate with the Jews to pay - in cash or in kind, in the form of open or hidden transfers, under the cover of military aid operations of Ukraine - any amount? Is Mr. Harris in Warsaw talking about what you can get out of the Poles and what about the Ukrainians? Is that what's happening? Please edit these questions in any way, Mr. Marshal, but I think that's what it would be like.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska is absent. But Mr Grzegorz Lorek is present. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u370	My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. High Izbo! 4 June 1989 in the region. Some events in the history of Poland are overestimated, as Professor Ludwik Stomma said. However, they certainly do not belong to this category of elections or plebiscite, which took place on 4 June 1989. It's been a long way. This June was not an isolated phenomenon. The still shy wind of freedom brought out of the demolds the poaltanian order. In Poland history has galloped since February 1989, when the then government began talks with the opposition at the so-called. round table. Let's leave these events on the side of the ball. Suffice it to say that the proceedings since April resulted in the re-registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association for Solidarity, the change of electoral ordination and the acceleration of elections to the Sejm and for the first time to the Senate. Some historians call these elections the first plebiscite, which was to show real confidence in the communist authorities of that time. And he was. The elections, although licensed and not entirely free, showed clearly that the PZPR lost its legitimacy to exercise power. The inhabitants of Piotrków Trybunalski, Tomaszów, Bełchatów or other cities of the region have different memories of that time. Some people remember the posters with Lech Wałęsza, which is the company's image of the candidates of the NSZZ Solidarity Committee, other posters, PZPR flyers (The Bell), and other things they said: do not take part in these elections. However, they all agree that the most impressive poster was made with an armed cowboy with a stamp of Solidarity, Gary Cooper. He became the icon of those elections. The message was clear: the only righteous one in this city. The deceased Zbigniew Mroziński, trade union activist, and later Member of the Third Order of the NSZZSolidarity, was not initially enthusiastic about the round table, but joined the movement hoping to change. The starter and chosen from Tomaszów Mazowiecki Teresa Zalewska was full of concerns about whether she could manage in the Seym. One of the youngest elected Members was the sleeper. Richard Brzuzy from the Belchato-Radomszczan district. He mentioned: everything was lacking, but not determination to change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u371	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, if he is present in the Chamber. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u372	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We've just had two important anniversaries. On June 18, 1792, the Battle of Zielencze was fought between Polish troops under the command of Prince Józef Poniatowski and Tadeusz Kościuszko and Russian troops commanded by General Morkov. It took place one year after the Constitution was passed on 3 May. Polish troops counted over 15 thousand. soldiers, while the Russian expedition corps - 11 thousand. soldiers. The Battle of Zielenców was the first victoria of the Polish army in almost the century, compared at that time in the Vienna rescue from 1683. Apart from the majority of Poles, everything actually spoke in favour of the Russians. Nevertheless, the Polish army won over the army of tsars and forced the Russians to withdraw. There is no way to fail to see an analogy in the context of Russia's current aggression against Ukraine and to test the existence of a sovereign state. The eyes of the whole world since 24 February this year. They are facing Ukraine and hope that the war in defence of the country will prove to be victorious for our neighbours. It is worth adding that on the day of the Battle of Zielenieców Prince Józef Poniatowski in his report to King Stanisław August asked for a new military decoration. It was supposed to be a form of thanks for bravery, but it was also about raising morale among soldiers. The King accepted his request and, on June 22, 1792, almost exactly 230 years ago, established the Order of Virtuti Militari. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The first awards were given along with the establishment of the award. Among the first 15 decorated with the oldest military award in the world, among those still being broadcast, were among others. Generals: Prince Józef Poniatowski, Tadeusz Kościuszko and Józef Zajiczek. So far, about 26,000 have been awarded with the award. persons. The statute provided for five classes of order: the Great Cross with the Star, the Commander's Cross, the Cavalry Cross, the Gold Medal and the Silver Medal. Like the Order of Maria Teresa, the mark was made in the shape of the cross in which the year 1792 and the coat of arms were seen: the Crowns - Eagle and Lithuania - Pogoń. The Military Order of Virtuti Militari, which preserved the five classes and shape of the cross, was restored only in free Poland, and its motto became the words: Honor and Homeland. These eloquent words were binding on the soldiers, because thanks to such attitudes and such a strong spirit as during the Battle of the Greens, they managed to defeat the enemy. The valuable lesson of history should be constantly up-to-date and passed on from generation to generation, because, as John Paul II said, a nation that loses its memory also loses its identity. All the more so in the context of Russia's aggressive behaviour towards its sovereign neighbours, we must remember that only joint action for the good of our country can prevent us from the various temptations of foreign countries, including armed aggression. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. The statement will now be made by Maciej Kopiec, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u374	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that working in companies of the Treasury is a distinction combining making money with the honor of building the common good - state companies, which are supposed to create the economic strength of the country. This is why the substantive requirements are made for the people who sit on the supervisory boards of companies to ensure that they function properly, so that taxpayers sleep peacefully for the fortune, security and economy of the country in which they live. So much for theory. It would have been if we hadn't been run by crooks. What does it look like in the Dukeship of the PiS? For the purposes of training wives, husbands, sweaters, law and justice triggers, usually trained only in cleaning party shoes, the authorities have established a college - Collegium Humanum. In it, upon the President's prescription of course, you can buy an MBA diploma needed to sit on paid supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury. In the Collegium Humanum, the MBA diploma costs about 9 thousand. zł, you can make it in 2, 3 months. The same diploma at a normal university takes at least 2 years, investing tens of thousands of PLN. The head of the university is Paweł Czarnecki. It is said that the coincidence of names with Richard Czarnecki, a Euro-president of the PiS, who was extorting money from the European Parliament, is a coincidence, although the face of the Member is used to promote the school, he is at every event organized by the university. The rector of this university can boast of many achievements, among them - he has been accused of plagiarism in his doctoral work. The case went to committee and was dismissed. Why are you so lenient? Mr Paweł Czarnecki was the rector of the committee's office (the bell). That's nice. Among the graduates of this talent forge the stars themselves: Bartłomiej Obajtek, director of State Forests in Gdańsk, brother of PKN President Orlen Daniela Obajtka. Antoni Duda, uncle of President Andrzej Duda, currently working on the Supervisory Board of PKP Cargo. Marcin Dec, publisher in Orlenowskie Polska Press. By the way, in May, the Polish Press awarded the title of the College Humanum of the Year and this is just as true and true as the title given to Kaczyński as the Man of Liberty. No other party has ever made such a return to the communist past and reality as Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u375	Thank you, sir. The statement will now be made by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the websites dedicated to government engagement for Polish youth it appears that one of the most busy members of the Council of Ministers is Minister Piotr Mazurek, a representative of the government for youth policy. According to government propaganda, the Minister works extremely hard because he is constantly involved in something, constantly discusses, politicians, receives titles for honorary members, and even creatively consults and dialogues when 24 hours allow. However, my young voters ask the Prime Minister whether it is certain that the government's representative and the government's representative cares about this job, which is to feel subjective in the European Union. The year 2022 was announced by the European Commission as the European Year of Youth, and every dedicated year is an opportunity for Europeans to raise funds for various activities in an area that is promoted in a given year. They can be sourced directly from EU funds, but they can also come from Member States' budgets, which have developed their own programmes for young people and their own grant schemes this year. Here (the bell) one could expect that the government, which finances its own representative from the budget for the implementation of Polish youth policy, will also finance specific actions for Polish youth or at least, in cooperation with the Commission, will enable young people to benefit from European funds. Meanwhile, it is already mid 2022, and government programs and the entire government's Polish youth policy, towards young people, neither sight nor hearing. Therefore, on behalf of my constituents, I have a polite appeal to the Prime Minister to ask the Minister of Attorney to find the time and idea of how Poles can take advantage of this beautiful initiative of the European Commission, and to ask Mr Czarnek to abandon his research on the characteristics of the women, and to send a request for money to the European Commission for Polish youth. I hope that the European Year of Youth will be a year used - not wasted - opportunities for Polish young citizens. That is why I ask the Prime Minister from this place to be personally involved in this matter. Send a proposal to the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Such a small remark: when it comes to Minister Czarnek, his research is going towards the virtues of the women, not the characteristics of the women, although probably one, and the other have various clingings and connotations close together. [[Applause]] We would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u378	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Since the beginning of my term of office, I have been actively trying to include the honorable memory and tribute of outstanding Poles by the Sejm. In 2021, I organized a literary competition for students of secondary schools, Tadeusz Różewicz inspires them. This year, the topic of the competition was: ¿Wanda Rutkiewicz inspires ¿, because I will remind you that on 14 October last year the Sejm adopted a resolution establishing the year 2022 Wanda Rutkiewicz on the 30th anniversary of death. Wanda Rutkiewicz, as stressed by the Sejm in the resolution, did not agree that the able climbers were only broochs in men's expeditions. The mountains were her world. They allowed exceptional intellectual and aesthetic sensations. Climbing was a work of art. Rutkiewicz created unique works. This year the works sent by students of secondary schools were evaluated by a group of judges in the composition of: Dr. Joanna Lisiewicz - Polish theorist, literary theorist, experienced Polish language teacher, Anna Kamińska - writer, reporter, journalist, author of biography books, among others. Wanda's books. A story about the power of life and death. History of Wanda Rutkiewicz Ż, Agnieszka Uścińska - screenwriter, director, graduate of Polish philology, journalism and doctoral studies at the Institute of Art of the Polish Academy of Sciences (Dzwonek), Paweł Lęcki - teacher of Polish language in the Second High School in Sopot, who is, as he says, a fan of homework, Leszek Cichy - an outstanding Himalaist, the first winner of Mount Everest in winter, a surveyor, a scientist at the Warsaw University of Technology. The judge was also Mr Tomasz Zimoch. Each of the judges has chosen the best work and five distinctions. The results were summarized and it turned out that the winner of the competition with the work entitled: Zuzanna Dębiec - a student and a high school teacher - became a reality. King John III Sobieski in Wejherów, who wrote the work under the direction of Barbara Malawska. Adrianna Fularczyk took second place for her work titled: In search of happiness. The winner is also a student of the High School in Wejherów. The third place was taken by Julia Chmielowska - a student of the Academic High School of Silesian University of Technology in Gliwice for her work entitled: I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. The fourth place was won by Natalia Szafraniec from the Auto-Service School Complex in Skarżysko-Kamienna for her work entitled: About the boy who found hope. Fifth place for Aneta Klein from the 1st High School in Wejherów. The sixth place was taken by Adrianna Żeromska from the High School of General Education in Szczecin for her work entitled: The shoes of Wanda Rutkiewicz brand. The seventh place is Kaja Kisielewska from the 1st High School. Jan Bażyński in Ostróda for his work entitled To have a heart in the mountains. The eighth place was taken by King Zielich from the High School in Chorzels for his work entitled "King Zielich." I'm not going back. The author of the best work received a cash prize in the amount of PLN 2022 according to the regulations. Congratulations to the winners. Thank you to all the participants. I send my bows to the teachers under the direction of the students who worked in this competition. Thank you all for your time. Big round of applause for the jury. They did a titanic job. I am not hiding, Marshal, the High Sejm, that I am in the seventh heaven - power in youth. Great thanks also to Danuta Stenka, who presented the works of the winners during the ceremony of the end of the competition last Monday in the Sejm. I encourage you to watch the account of this ceremony. And since I have decided to hold competitions until I hold a mandate, I hope to invite the students to literary work one more time. The best work in this year's competition I've collected in this book. If you'll allow me, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to submit these young men's works. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u379	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u380	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u381	She's a great climber, and I'm sure I'll get to know that position. Thank you for your wonderful statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u382	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u383	Now I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u384	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since with you, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, we are both from the same Warsaw constituency, I would like to invite you for the event which takes place in Warsaw, i.e. on Saturday's march of equality. You don't have to be gay to be part of this, because I'm not gay, and I'm part of these parades. It is simply a beautiful, colorful holiday of freedom and showing that everyone has equal rights in our beautiful country no matter who he loves. I'm sure you'll like this party. The bodyguards can take the day off because it's a peaceful event. We may even make such an appointment, Mr. President, that if you visit the equality march, I will come to church for a month. This could be an opportunity for us to open up to completely new environments. To encourage you, I have a little gift for the president, which is rainbow shoelaces. Since I see that there is no Member presently in the Chamber, I will tie them here to the microphone, and they will wait for your president to pick them up. Mr. President! Remember, love doesn't rule it out. See you Saturday at the equality march. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u385	Thank you. Perhaps these shoelaces, if you wish to pass them on to the Member, are more to his place where he sits, or... [[But here's a friend from the club coming, and I'm sure he'll hand them over in person.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Smiley smiled so that...]] So that sometimes these shoelaces don't please Mr... There you go, now Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u386	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! My statement today is about the 100th anniversary of the return of Upper Silesia to Poland and the celebration of this holiday in Katowice. Last weekend in Katowice a number of celebrations related to the celebrations of the century of the return of Silesia to Poland and the first National Day of the Silesian Uprising took place. I remind you that on June 20, 1922, the Polish Army under the command of General Szeptycki officially entered Katowice, which meant the return of parts of Upper Silesia to Poland. I personally took part in the planting of oak in the newly formed al. Polish Silesian Heritage, and I also had the opportunity to see a presentation of the postmark on the occasion of this round anniversary. The Pantheon of Upper Silesia was also opened. A concert took place in the premises of the Polish Radio National Symphony Orchestra, as well as Mass. in the architect of Christ the King in Katowice. The celebrations will continue this weekend in Pszczyna. I thank the authorities of the Silesian Voivodeship and the city of Katowice for the opportunity to celebrate this ceremony. Eternal honor and glory for fighting for Poland for heroes from Upper Silesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Since Mr Paweł Lisiecki is not in the Chamber, who was just now enrolled in the speech, we very much ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka to make a statement. At the same time, I inform you that this is the last statement in the series scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, 50 years have passed since Pope Paul VI's bull was created the Gorzow diocese, it is now a diocese of the Gorzów-Green Mountains. Under the motto "Peace to you" on 13 June this year. The anniversary celebrations took place at the diocese sanctuary in Rokitno. In turn the main celebrations took place on June 18 on the day of indulgence in honor of Our Lady of Rokitnia, the patron saint of our diocese. It was a special occasion to celebrate together in the sanctuary of Our Lady patiently Listening through pastors, lay persons, movements, Catholic associations and communities, as well as to thank you for the gift of life in the local church for half a century. It is not possible to name all the clergy and laymen who have recorded themselves on the pages of the history of our diocese and have helped to strengthen faith and Christian love. Undoubtedly, it was their hard work at the basis of both the catechetical, pastoral and administrative fields that translated into the survival of diocesans in the spirit of Christian values at various moments of history of Poland. As we know, these difficult experiences were not lacking, as mentioned on 2 June 1997. Holy Father John Paul II during his visit to Gorzów Wielkopolski. This year the 25th anniversary of the Polish Pope's stay in the heart of our diocese is a reason for pride and opportunity to reach the historical heritage and words which he then addressed to the gathered more than 400 thousand. People. Pope Pole referred to the roots of our diocese, which reach the mission of her patrons, St. The brothers Międzyrzecki, the first martyrs of Poland, Benedict, John, Matthew, Isaac and Krystyna, the beginning of the second millennium of Christianity and the first years of Polish statehood. These martyrs are called the Polish Brothers, although there were also foreigners among them. As John Paul II emphasized, their martyrdom beside the death of St. Wojciech stands, as it were, on the threshold of the millennia of Christendom in our lands. It is also worth noting that our roots should be seen in the historical Diocese of Lubuskie, which was created in the 12th century. At that time it contained the lands lying in the fork of the rivers Oder and Warta. In view of the turbulent fates of those lands and martyrs who have shed blood for faith and freedom, we are obliged to maintain memory, to live with values and to pass on a valuable lesson of history and sacrifice to the next generation. As St. John Paul II, a nation that loses its memory, loses its identity. Returning to roots and reaching to sources are extremely important today. In front of our eyes, Russia's aggression on Ukraine began on 24 February. This is a concrete signal for us to appreciate the value of peace and to be able to pursue it beyond divisions on different levels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u389	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u390	On Father's Day, I wish all those who have children all the best, many joys, that every day should be an adventure and a cause for pride.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u391	A hundred years ago, the Polish Soldier's verses announced the ceremony of taking over the part of Upper Silesia by the Republic: Happy regiments, which will follow the old footsteps of Bolesław Chrobre's deputies in Silesia... Their lucky fate met, but they must remember that they will go there soon as representatives of the Republic, government and our army. They must remember that the people of the Upper Silesian Polish army, not seen there for six centuries, will welcome them. Thus, in the memorable days of the incorporation on 26 June 1922. The Tarnowskie Góra took two military formations. The soldiers of the Battalion of Honor entered first. 27. The infantry regiment at the head of the colonel. Edward Nowak. Then came the Representative Squadron 3. The U.S. regiment that brought the rtm. Ignacy Kowalczewski - later colonel and heroic commander from September 1939. The most important point of the ceremony was Mass. half celebrated on an altar built on the steps of the town hall of Tarnogóra. It was performed by the military chaplain Fr. Leonard Kaszyński and three priests fleeing - patriots fleeing in fear for their lives from the German side of Silesia - Fr. Jan Banas, Fr. Karol Pasternak and Fr. Paweł Doliczych. After the service, a great intercessor of Polishness, the mayor of the nearby Silesian City Jan Bondkowski gave his welcome speech, while the gathered Tarnogórzans thanked General Stanisław Szeptycki for remaining in a centuries-old love for his homeland. This day ended the parade, in which the Polish soldiers were preceded by a company of Silesian insurgents and members of the Haller Association, a peasant horse-band carrying the Polish flag high, quilters on floral bikes, miners and surrounding peasants dressed in the costumes of the Silesian people. For many days the celebrations were reminiscent of 20 triumphal gates erected, houses decorated with wreaths and garlands intertwined with food and white and red flags clogged in almost every window, and the memory of 26 June 1922 was forever recorded in the history of Tarno Góra and survived until 2022. On June 25 and 26, 2022, Tarnowskie Góry will host the main celebrations related to the 100th anniversary of joining Upper Silesia to the Republic of Poland under the honorary patronage: - Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, - Piotr Gliński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, - Mariusz Błaszczak, Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of National Defence, - Jarosław Evening, Silesian Voivodeship, - Barbara Dziuk, Member of the Polish Parliament. As part of the celebration, three scientific sessions were held in Tarno Góra, temporary exhibitions: - ¿Wojsko Polskie enters Upper Silesia 1922 ¿, - ¿Tarnowskie Góry on June 26, 1922, - Silesian triumphal gates to welcome the Majesty of the Republic of 1922 ¿ and philatelic exhibitions presenting patriotic topics. The program is aimed at all Tarnogóras, lovers of Silesian history and, above all, young people. To them is also addressed the offer of competitions - plastic and photographic with prizes, historical and artistic workshops related to the theme of celebrations. Another project is the publication of books: Nina Jarzyńska ŻSkoci in Tarnowskie Góra, the forgotten history of the days of Silesian uprisings and plebiscite in Upper Silesia (1920-1922) ¿, the second edition of the book from 1997 ¿Participation of the Polish Army in the celebrations of the part of Upper Silesia in 1922 ¿Tarnowskie Góry on 26 June 1922. On the 100th anniversary of joining the part of Upper Silesia to the Republic of Poland (1922-2022), the triumphal gates to welcome the Majesty of the Republic of Poland. On the 100th anniversary of joining the part of Upper Silesia to the Republic of Poland (1922-2022), the ceremony of taking over Upper Silesia in 1922 in the memoirs of colonel. Ignacy Kowalczewski ¿, reprint of Songs about Silesia - poem by Jan Nowak. In addition, reconstructions of march and parade will be organized, ceremonial service with participation of choirs and orchestras, concerts of Scottish music and a commemorative plaque dedicated to the 100th anniversary of joining the city to Poland will be unveiled. The ceremonies are organized by the mayor of the city of Tarnowskie Góra and the Museum of the Institute of Tarnogóra.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u392	Declaration on Civil Service Day Through my statement, I would like to emphasise the importance of public services and express my gratitude to those who work for the community on a daily basis. The Civil Service Day presents this opportunity today. This day was established by the United Nations General Assembly in 2002. For the first time, the Civil Service Day was held in 2003. His idea is to highlight the contribution of the public service to the development of democracy and world peace. It is also essential to stimulate the willingness of young people to start a career in the public sector. The special importance of public service can be found in the work that police officers, firefighters, medical workers, teachers or officials do. However, in the years when the world was struggling and still struggling with the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, public service workers stood on the front line of crisis action. Thanks to the sacrificial and hard work of nurses, doctors and paramedics who provided lifesaving medical care, those in need could feel that they were not left alone. In the last year, all public service workers have faced new, very demanding tasks, becoming important and credible support and support for citizens. In these difficult times they have become a factor that has supported the functioning of our social system. On Civil Service Day, I therefore thank all doctors and health professionals, teachers, police officers, soldiers, local government officials and anyone else who cannot be mentioned and who work for the common good every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u393	On 23 June 2022, I declare that, due to technical problems, I could not give my vote correctly during the vote at the 57th meeting of the Sejm - vote No 54 - Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws (prints No. 2351, 2357, 2357-A) - vote on the entire draft law. My intention was to vote against, but as a result of the problems it was counted by the system as a pro.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-23-sejm-57-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 230 years ago on June 22, 1792, King Stanisław August Poniatowski, after his victory in the Battle of Greens, during the war in defence of the Constitution on May 3, established the Order of Virtuti Militari. Over the next 200 years, it honored heroes of all wars in defence of Polish sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To date, the highest Polish military award has been awarded about 26 thousand. persons. It was received by Kościuszko, insurgents: November, January, Greater Poland, Silesia and Warsaw, participants in the fight for independence of Poland, Polish-Bolshevik war, campaign 1939, soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West and the National Army. The youngest bachelor of the order is 13-year-old Antek Petrykiewicz, who was mortally wounded during the fight for Lviv in 1918, and the first woman Joanna Żubrowa, soldier of the Army of the Duchy of Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since 1989, the Order of Virtuti Militari has not been awarded. The 1992 Law establishes that it will be broadcast only during the war or no later than 5 years after its completion. The complicated history of this award reflects the changing and tragic fate of Poland. High Izbo! It is worth mentioning that in 1995 the Chapter of the Order of Virtuti Militari explained the legality of the awards of this award in the period of the People's Poland. In a special document, she also stated:...) in defence and respect for these undoubted merits of Polish soldiers fighting on all fronts in defence of their homeland, however, we state loudly and clearly that the practice of giving the Orders of Virtuti Militari to the people of Poland, especially the highest classes given in an unprecedented number to representatives of foreign power, is an insult of the honor of the Polish soldier. [[High Izbo! Everyone who travels across Europe knows that prices in Poland are already European, only Poles and Poles still earn in zlotys. For example, let us use the new mortgages that we have just mentioned. In Poland, the interest rate is around 6.5%, and in countries with euro it is on average around 2%. So it's three times cheaper in euros.]] [[If we look at inflation, it was 7.4% on average in the euro area in April, while in Poland it was 12.4%. Unfortunately, in Poland we also pay more and more for imported goods, because the gold is very weak. And this is actually a tax on the inability of the current power. Because the weaker the government and the more political the central bank president, the weaker the currency is. In Poland, this tax is increasing.]] [[That is why I am asking you today to discuss in substance the path to the adoption of the euro under appropriate and favourable conditions for Poles.]] [[Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System.]] [[This concludes the 57th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland.]] [[The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm.]] [[The agenda of the 58th session of the Sejm, convened on 6 and 7 July 2022, was served to the ladies and gentlemen.]] [[We're adjourned.]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 33]]
