ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Health-- hour. 9, - Economics and Development together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 9.45, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on National Defence - h.m. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Public Finance - hour. 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, print No 1914. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Now, High Izbo, I ask you to ask Mr Adam Sněžkou.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the second selection of proposals for the strategic investment programme of the Polish Order. This was very expected by local authorities. For use by municipalities, powiats and voivodships there is a huge sum of PLN 20 billion and PLN 2.5 billion for the municipalities of Popeerów. The basic rules for the submission of projects have been presented, but local authorities ask whether the results of the second selection will be similar to that of the first competition or whether significant differences are to be expected. They also wonder how the implementation of projects from the first tranche affected the infrastructure market, the prices of construction materials and services and the time of the investment. Does the government monitor the situation in this area and what conclusions does it draw for the further implementation of the Strategic Investment Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u4	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced a second call. The selection is carried out by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, as in the first pilot programme, which was carried out between July and October last year. A similar budget of the entire programme is the announced 20 billion PLN. The purpose of this is to continue this first programme. I would therefore like to reassure all those who are wondering whether this programme will be implemented in a similar way. Yes, lessons have been learned from the first pilot recruitment. At the moment there are meetings of employees of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in individual voivodships. They will continue, so that as many meetings as possible will take place by the end of January, so that local authorities have the best knowledge of the programme's priorities - they remain unchanged, but it is also about the different types of possibility related to the implementation of these investments later, because we know that this is a new formula, it is a formula for the implementation of investments based on the promes of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and will continue to do so. At the moment, in the second recruitment, each local authority has the opportunity to submit three applications for three investments: for investment up to PLN 5 million, for investment up to PLN 30 million and for investment up to PLN 65 million. As regards the additional pool of PLN 2.5 billion for municipalities on the so-called. Popegeer area, these are two additional investments in addition to the first three, investments for which municipalities can apply for investments up to PLN 2 and 5 million, and districts from these areas - up to PLN 2.8 million. Of course, these applications from municipalities and powiats must be submitted for specific investments in the so-called. the village of Popegeerowska within this municipality or district which submit an application. As for the issues related to the impact of the Strategic Investment Programme on the infrastructure market, we are now on the first call, we are at the stage of issuing tenders or the duration of tenders in certain municipalities. In many places you can see that it is implemented very quickly. There is a lot of evidence that the municipalities were very well prepared, that the projects had been prepared for years and at the moment the municipalities have the opportunity to implement. Hence, these tenders are already being carried out, although at the present stage of these tenders it is difficult to assess the impact of the Strategic Investment Programme on the infrastructure market or the price of building materials and services. This is due not only to the fact that not all investments are still at the tender stage, but also to external, economic factors. Price increases in building materials, e.g. steel or cement, has its source in very often global or national conditions, connected with the construction of even housing. Similarly, there is a situation with the labour market, construction workers or the pace of investment. This situation is affected not only by investments carried out within the Polish Government, but also by the accelerated investments in the real estate market or other major infrastructure projects, so at the moment such a causal link between the Local Investment Programme and the infrastructure market is not yet due to the fact that these investments are not yet at this stage in order to have a measurable effect. I would add that the Strategic Investment Programme at this point is extremely important because we are ending the EU's perspective on spending EU funds, and another perspective on recruitment in the next perspective is just ahead of us, so there has always been this so-called situation between the perspectives. the investment hole, there was such a year, 1,5 years, when there was a problem with public investment organized by the local government, because local governments did not have the possibility to invest from external funds at some time, outside the budget of the local government. This programme gives us the opportunity not to have this investment hole between one and the other EU perspective. In the first recruitment of PLN 20 billion, now also over PLN 20 billion. These are historic amounts that will allow the investments to be made by the local government and that these investments, which have been very often expected over the years, can be implemented, can continue. I am convinced that these funds will be very well spent. Let me remind you that in the first round 97% local governments have received funds. We want to get as many local governments as possible at the moment, so that all local governments can benefit from the Polish Government, from the Fund for Strategic Investments. Therefore, this one change, namely that the application for PLN 5 million for each local government is a mandatory application in order to be able to submit further applications more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. On the same subject, i.e. on the second selection of proposals for the Polish Order: the Strategic Investment Programme, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u7	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the government for this Strategic Investment Programme within the framework of the Polish Order. I do this on my own behalf, but also the self-governments with whom I have many contacts, you can say, daily, probably as many of us or as any of us in this room. They really express their gratitude for this programme because of both its scale and the variety of subsidised investments, and maybe mainly because of the amount of funding, because with the minimum required own contribution from 5% to 15%. To the questions I wanted to ask, the Minister has mostly already answered. I would just like to ask, therefore, whether this year, in addition to this recruitment, there are yet to be further recruitments, when this call now announced will be decided, and whether some types of investment will be preferred. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the question I am asking because in the first edition, more than 11 billion of the 24 billion allocated to these investments were funds. just for road investments. Does the government draw any conclusions from this, and will this however be a recruitment similar to the previous one in terms of the diversity of investments reported in the programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u8	Thank you very much. And again, I am asking Minister Chefner for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As far as the diversity of investments is concerned, priorities remain the same all the time. The first call showed that the most important needs were road investments. These needs are the biggest in terms of investment at the level of the county, where there are plenty of roads, and so far there has been a lack of resources to be able to do just as much funding, more than 80%, and in many cases it is possible to repair roads up to 95%. Therefore, I think that there is still much to be done at this stage in terms of roads in terms of water and sewage investments, although this also depends on the nature of the municipality, because some municipalities, for example, in terms of municipalities. tourist or spa communities, has other needs and these needs will also be implemented under this programme. Like I said, there's a wide range of these proposals. We will certainly adapt these investments to the needs of municipalities and, in many situations, this is an individual issue, but the absolute priority is road repair, water and sewage networks renovation - very strong infrastructure issues. As regards the deadlines for the second recruitment, 15 February is the final date for the submission of applications in this recruitment. Then, drawing conclusions from the first recruitment and really assessing certain deadlines, I think that in mid-April, by mid-April, there will be a result of both recruitments, i.e. recruitment for post-Popeer area and recruitment concerning the Polish Order. In the beginning, indeed, this is the work of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, who formally checks all the proposals, which also evaluates these proposals, and then, during committee meetings, we try to do so very carefully so that there is little doubt about these results. Therefore, I think that this is a matter of the end of March, the beginning of April - to be careful, this can be resolved by mid-April. Surely, the decision on subsequent recruitments will also result from the economic situation. We know that this is a situation, also in a global context, not entirely predictable. Therefore, I would not like to speak clearly about the fact that there will be further recruitments this year, although the idea is that such recruitments should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u10	Thank you very much. The next question will address the causes of high gas prices against most European Union Member States and the variation of these prices in different parts of Poland. It is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u11	Dear Marshal, Minister! Poles are shocked by the increase in gas prices, but also energy. The media is full of speculation about the causes of such radical increases in gas prices. It is difficult to explain on what basis the calculation of such high prices is based, increases much higher than in most European countries. I'll remind you, in France since October 1st. year gas price increased by 12% , and in Poland by 54% since 1 January, but in 2021 there were already price increases. How do these prices translate so much into proposals for contracts at such a shocking level? I don't know. in the price list PGNiG Retail turnover included prices of PLN 790/MWh? Of course, much is said about changing the price formula in the Jamaican contract, but even if it were to be assumed that it was based on an average price from the European stock exchanges in 2021, it would in no case justify such a high increase. Therefore, Minister, we ask: What was the volume of imports of natural gas into Poland in 2021? What was the average cost of this gas import? Of course, it's about the cost of 1 MWh. How do the government estimate these volumes for the future, i.e. how will imports and the average price of these imports evolve in 2022 and 2023? And of course we also ask about the amount of LNG brought to Poland in 2021, as well as the average cost of importing this gas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much of this gas was regassed in 2021? We also ask what is the respect, what are the assumptions about imports and the average price in the current year, as well as in 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u12	Thank you very much. Minister Maciej Małecki will answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u13	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is important to remind very strongly and very clearly that when it comes to triggering the current gas crisis of shockingly high gas prices in the European Union, the Polish state has no influence on this. And I think someone who deals with this matter in the Polish Seym or in the widely understood gas sector knows that. We are dealing with a gas hit by Russia, a gas hit by Vladimir Putin on the countries of the European Union to force two things. On the one hand, the aim is to allow the Nord Stream 2 pipeline to be used without European regulations, in a way that will expose our part of Europe to further gas blackmail by Vladimir Putin in the future. Putin wants to get Nord Stream 2 out of the EU pipeline, unfortunately German politicians or politicians from other countries who supported the construction of this pipeline are seconds away. On the other hand, Russia wants to force further long-term contracts that are beneficial to it. This means that Russia has reduced the supply of gas offered in the formula spot, has limited the transmission of gas to Western European countries. This is why gas levels in warehouses in Western Europe have been greatly reduced. Against this background Poland is very good because our gas warehouses are filled with 83%. In Germany, it's 50%. , on a European Union-wide scale, these are similar figures. And now let me remind you that we are on a common European gas market. In Poland in 2013 the obligation of the stock exchange was introduced, i.e. gas must be purchased by the Freight Energy Exchange, which is very closely aligned with the European stock exchanges, especially the Dutch stock exchange TTF. In this respect, Gazprom is reducing its supply, and we are dealing with an increase in gas prices across the European Union. The example of France, cited by your Member, speaks of household users, who are on a tariff basis. So exactly what the law and justice government... [[Like I said, 54%.]] Mr... State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...makes the bill we're working on. So this law, which I hope we will adopt at this session of the Sejm, we will adopt another package to protect domestic gas consumers in all households, vulnerable customers such as hospitals, schools, hospices, social services homes, etc. [[But it's settled.]] For these customers the price of gas fixed by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be PLN 200.17. This is on the one hand the package we've prepared. We have the protection of household customers, cooperatives, communities, social housing, municipal, etc., etc. On the other hand, we have a wide protective umbrella for vulnerable customers. Then we have funding for gas sellers who buy gas more expensive and sell it on a tariff. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, the price of 1 MWh of gas was EUR 18.20 in January. December of this year - 187 euro, that is a tenfold increase in gas prices, which Poland has no influence on. Poland has an impact on the fact that we have observed very strongly for years our partners in the European Union before believing Gazprom that Vladimir Putin is driven by business factors. No. Gazprom, Russia uses energy resources to put pressure on its neighbours. And today the gullible European Commission has collided with this policy of Vladimir Putin. We have warned against this, and now we are preparing a package of solutions that will protect our weakest gas consumers. Let me remind you that last year, the High House adopted solutions that allow for the protection of gas consumers in such a way that this price peak, these highest prices could be spread over 3 years, VAT on gas was reduced - we continue to do so by reducing it to 0%. VAT on gas. Anti-inflationary shields are being introduced and these are concrete actions. As for gas imports to Poland, it looks like that if we have a production of 3.7 billion domestic gas, annual consumption of the Polish economy about 20 billion, that is about 16 billion gas imports from different sides. The most gas flows through the Jamaican pipeline, this contract (The Bell) expires at the end of this year, i.e. 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u14	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u15	Minister, I'm very sorry, but you're running away from the subject because the questions were very specific. Let me repeat: Please tell me what was the weighted average of the cost of obtaining natural gas from imports in the fourth quarter of 2021. If we take into account that 1/4 of the gas consumed in Poland comes from domestic extraction, another from LNG, are we not sometimes dealing with a noticeable monopoly position, which is PGNiG on the Polish market? Don't you think that right now PGNiG's monopolistic position also affects the price of the gas we're dealing with? Minister! Question two: Did PGNiG use active security through financial exchanges, the cost of obtaining gas from a long-term contract with Gazprom? The company's published accounts do not suggest that such a thing should happen. The only transactions visible in the report are transactions (the bell) that insure the price of clearly stored and extracted gas before falling. If prices were not actually secured against growth, did PGNiG simply decide to transfer the increasing price to customers? Last one: How is the amount of gas entering the spot market in relation to futures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u16	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Maciej Małecki to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I will note that you are demanding business information that is concluded between those who contract gas, and I am talking about stock companies. I'm sorry, but that kind of information isn't made available by the companies. [[Let's make it a secret meeting, classified.]] Mr. Speaker! You ask me in the Plenary Chamber of the High House about sensitive economic data, which even the Minister of State Assets as one of the shareholders of the company, in this case PGNiG, cannot own, because as a shareholder it is equalized in rights with everyone who owns the shares of the company. [[And on the basis of that, we give 66 billion to the Sejm. So on what grounds...]] We're talking about a public company. Ladies and gentlemen! I've given you the gas prices that exist in the markets, and I would like to remind you once again that you have introduced a stock exchange obligation for gas. [[You guys picked it up.]] [[Pick them up.]] You've been demanding for 30 years as a liberal community to... You talk about it to Poles like that. The invisible hand of the market will do its job, capital has no nationality - and that is what you have been telling Poles since the beginning of the 1990s. [[That wasn't the question, Minister, that's not what we asked.]] And now all of a sudden, when it turns out that this narrative you've been presenting for 30 years has gone bankrupt, you're saying there's supposed to be gas prices officially set. [[Answer the questions.]] [[Six years you rule, you can change.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow the Minister to speak. [[But not about it.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: This is how you bring Poland out of the Union. While in the European Union, it is important to comply with EU rules. [[The question was, the question.]] And unfortunately, there is a free market for gas, for which you were in favour. You hit us very hard five years ago when we introduced... [[Answer the questions.]] And don't bother the Member. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...comparing the obligation for all importers to store gas. [[That's not the question.]] Until now, this obligation has only been imposed on one importer - PGNiG. E.g. As a result, gas stocks in Poland increased by 50%. [[That's not what we asked.]] As for gas imports, this is also a free market. If someone has obtained permission, they can import, and maybe for example. at the gas terminal in Świnoujście order free capacity (Dawn) to bring gas to Poland. This is the free market you've always wanted. You've introduced a stock exchange obligation for gas. [[That's eye soap. You don't answer questions. Where is the answer to the questions? Minister, time is up.]] And one last thing. It was during the time of the Platform and PSL government that a regulation was introduced which ordered gas settlement not by 1 m3 but by 1 MWh. That's the answer to the differentiation in national gas... [[We didn't ask that.]] ...and imported gas either by sea or by pipelines. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, there's no answer... this soaping is the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u18	Minister, we must decide as Members to dispose of the huge money that will help PGNiG. We want to help PGNiG, if it's in a difficult situation, it's our duty, but we should know that. Well, then, Minister, in secret, at the Energy Commission's meeting, please provide us with this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir. The next question concerns drastic increases in gas and energy prices. It shall be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Katarzyna Kretkowska will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We continue the question of doubts related to these monstrous increases in gas prices in Poland approved by the Energy Regulatory Office in December and dictated by PGNiG since January this year, which amount to 1000%. They are not justified, contrary to what you say, at current gas prices on the European market, on the Dutch market, all the more so in the climate package or ETS system, as the government says. In fact, on the Dutch futures market, which refers to the purchase of gas prices for Poland, the price of 1 MWh in January went up to 182,3 euros, but you do not say that since the first days of January this price has fallen by 50%, to 94 euros. Why does the PGNiG price list not take into account this decrease by 50% and is still based on significantly higher December prices? Russia's gas is only 60% gas on the Polish market. Why are his prices still dictating Russian gas rates against what PiS promised? You've launched a triumphant LNG terminal in Świnoujście. We import liquefied gas from the U.S. and Qatar. Why does this import not affect the promised and expected reduction in gas prices in Poland? For example - 10 days ago, the very departure of the methane fleet from the USA to Europe carrying gas caused a 50% drop on the Dutch stock exchange. Another, our national gas resources are currently satisfying a dozen percent of demand and are not investing in it. Why aren't we exploiting their potential? Why Polish customers receiving gas from domestic deposits also pay for these horrendous increases (The Bell), e.g. recipients in Poznań and in the Poznań district? Why is the launch of Baltic Pipe and imports from Norwegian deposits planned for this year also not resulting in the planned price reduction of PGNiG? Why is the government blaming the increase in gas on the European Union, and it is silent about changing the price formula, because it was the PiS who changed the price formula and passed on to the market price, to the current price? And finally, the last question, Mr. Marshal, is the revenue from the sale of the ETS. The 50 billion remaining in the state budget were not used to modernise Polish transmission networks so that domestic customers could pass safely, for example. Photovoltaics and independence from the price of gas from Russia, as promised by the PiS government, and in this situation is exactly the opposite, because we are dependent on the price of gas from Russia, although we would not have to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u21	Thank you very much. You will answer the question of Minister Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I have listened very carefully to the honourable Member, but here we have a complete confusion with confusion. Madame, I would like to ask that, when we talk about gas prices, anything, if we compare, we compare apples to apples, not apples, for example. to the seats in the seym. You say gas prices are down because today they're about 90 euros per MWh. We're talking January. Let's compare January to January. A year ago, this gas price was not EUR 90 per MWh, but EUR 18 or EUR 20 per MWh. We still have a nearly five-fold increase in gas prices. How can you say that gas prices have dropped? I repeat once again - because I have just answered this question asked by another parliamentary club - for the rise in gas prices in Europe, also in Poland, is responsible for Wladimir Putin's gas blackmail and the complete failure of the European Commission. The Polish government has repeatedly warned our partners in the European Commission, in various European countries, that Russia has unscrupulously used energy resources to put pressure on its neighbours, countries where it wants to help. Nevertheless, the European countries headed by Germany were stubbornly pushing for the construction of the gas pipeline. Nord Stream 2, this pipeline, which is to bypass Poland, Ukraine and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, to crowd gas directly from Russia to Germany. Putin calls for the Nord Stream 2 pipeline to be privileged despite the strict European rules that apply to other such pipelines. Moreover, Russia wants to force long-term contracts on European countries to finance it. Today, when the Russian gas flows are stopped by traditional land gas pipelines, by reducing gas in spot markets and failing to fill European warehouses, there has been a dramatic rise in gas prices, there has been panic in European markets. And since Poland, I draw your attention to this, is an integral part of the European gas market, these prices also affect our country, even though we have warehouses filled with almost 100%. Polish warehouses are filled with 83%, in Germany, in the European Union it is on average 50%. This mythical gas flotilla, which was supposed to flow from the United States to Europe, is really absolutely promilek of European gas demand. What's more, some of those gas trucks that you were talking about flowed into the so-called. formula free on board, which means this gas could have been bought on the ocean from anywhere in the world, and that's where the ship could have changed course. On the other hand, I stress very strongly that the Government of Law and Justice has taken action to protect Polish consumers since the beginning of this gas crisis. There was a bill that the High House adopted last year, which allows gas sellers to distribute this price shock for 3 years. We have reduced VAT on gas, we have introduced protective additives and now, I hope, today, we will effectively conclude work in the High House on a law which includes a wide umbrella for all gas consumers who consume gas for housing purposes. The Law and Justice Government has drawn up a law which covers the protection of the tariff of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for all gas consumers using gas for residential purposes. Sensitive recipients, such as hospitals, schools, hospice, etc., are included in this protection. Here we are talking about the tariff approved by the President of URE for 2022 for the largest shareholder on the market, i.e. PGNiG OD, at the level of PLN 200.17. In addition, we provide financing for gas sellers who have to buy this gas at the price of, for example, the current days, EUR 90 per MWh and sell for PLN 200, i.e. for a few euros. And here is this huge price gap which would lead to the bankruptcy of gas sellers in Poland. It will be filled by the funding that we have prepared in this bill. These are concrete measures to protect gas customers in Poland. On the other hand, I call once again to the High House that Members of the Polish Parliament should not be involved with their narrative in this gas attack by Vladimir Putin and Gazprom gas attack on the whole European Union, because it is the government of Law and Justice, the Polish government, repeatedly appealed to the various European institutions and our partners on the international stage to protect the European Union (the Bell) from this scenario. And since this scenario has taken place and the European Commission is passive, we are taking actions that can be implemented within our country and in accordance with EU rules. And once again I stress, because it also happened that there is no possibility because of Poland's presence in the European Union and uniform trade rules to include companies with special tariffs, lower than in other countries. We would like such solutions, but this is not allowed and would be treated by the European Commission as illegal public aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u23	Thank you. The second question will be asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, nothing will happen from the appeals themselves. It's not when you do it when you're on fire, it's when you have to do it definitely before. The face of the rise in electricity prices, gas prices, is Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who already announced in 2018 that he is responsible for electricity prices in Poland. You told us here that there are bad Members who criticize the government, who say what needs to be improved, and the government is good and helpful. How's it helping? I have four invoices here, two from 2020 and two from 2021, December 2020 versus December 2021. - that's four times the electricity bill at a small boarding house. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, how will you respond today to all those who are going on holiday during the upcoming spring break, and guesthouses, bakers and other craftsmen have been so high that they have to raise their prices? Minister, how the government intends You're gonna cut it down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u25	Thank you very much. Minister Małecki also answers that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I respect you very much, but I would like you to note that Poland is in the European Union and there is a politician called Frans Timmermans in the European Union, and you are probably in one faction as a group, and Mr Timmermans, your colleague from the European Parliament, is pushing for a program called Fit for 55, for which the Poles will pay not so much as you said today, but will pay - this is the cost of the Polish economy - by 2030 almost PLN 2.5 trillion. In order to give you a closer example of how this will result in Polish families, you can say that your colleagues from the European Parliament, with whom you are pursuing policies widely in Europe, want solutions that each Polish family will cost a quarter of a million zlotys by 2030. And this government, which you are attacking during the gas crisis, is taking action to avoid it, because we speak very strongly: we are in favour of a clean environment, we are in favour of climate protection, but we will never do it at the expense of the poverty of Polish families and we will not race with you as a leftist in the European Parliament, with Timmermans, your colleague, we will not race to the role of European prime minister, the primacy for European officials at the price of the poverty of Polish families. That's never gonna happen as long as the government of law and justice rules. Remember this country. First, these remarks, Mr Custom comments about the rise in electricity prices. 60% - price increases. 60% current prices It's an EU tax, it's a Timmermans tax, it's a Tusk tax. Tell me about it. 60% electricity prices, Timmermans and Donald Tusk - there should be their faces. We want to change this, we want the European Union to sober up, so that European politicians understand that climate protection cannot be built on the poverty of Polish families, on the poverty of European families. And one more important thing. This energy transition, so strongly pushed by the largest European countries, will benefit from this old European Union, which could build its economies at a time when we were in communism and when we had an inefficient economy. Today we are to pay the price for such harmful solutions. [[But Morawiecki agreed to it.]] One more thing about gas prices, because the State of the Left referred to this mythical example of France, which most secures the gas consumers, the sensitive ones, the domestic ones. It is the tariff price in France: the company Engie, the offer for 2 years - 397,7 in terms of złotki (Dzwonek), the company EDF - 411,18 in terms of 4 years. This is twice the price we kept in Poland at PLN 200.17 for households, for vulnerable customers. We'd also like to go further and expand. it is also for entrepreneurs, but this is not allowed by EU rules. Mr Timmermans, thank you for your comments, but your colleague Frans Timmermans is the recipient. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u28	Minister, I think someone's lying here because I just got an e-mail from Tauron saying 50%. That's the price you're talking about. And you're here from the Seym Court saying 60%. Then who's lying here, Minister? If we compare France to Poland and convert it into zlotys, please also tell us what income is in France, how much people earn, what is the lowest salary in relation to Polish salaries, if you convert it into zlotys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u29	Mr President, I have a request to count all the EU components. I think communication in terms of energy prices, this timmermans tax will be quite strong, because this communication is needed. We are in favour of energy vendors talking about what consists of these high prices that your Fit for package also consists of. 55, this pressure of your climate left in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, I think anyone who, although a short-term interest in politics knows that no one has harmed the environment so much, no one has destroyed nature as the left after World War II in Poland, if you refer to these traditions. In my family Sochaczew flows three rivers: Bzura, Pisia and Los. Every day in the '80s. - from childhood I can remember that - these rivers flowed in a different color. That's what the left-handed environmental protection looked like. Today, we must bear the costs of leaving that level and entering the level that Western European countries have long had. So please join us in these efforts. Just direct your comments to those who decide this, namely Frans Timmermans, Donald Tusk et Consortes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u30	Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski from the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will ask a question about the tragic situation of pig producers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In view of the numerous problems of pig producers, I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. Due to the introduction of the Polish Order, some of the social groups lost several hundred zlotys for wages in January. According to the government's announcement, these losses will be compensated within a month at the latest. In turn farmers who suffered losses due to ASF virus in the first three quarters of last year still did not receive money despite correctly submitted claims and calculated losses by ARiMR employees. Farmers have been waiting a few months for their compensation. As a reason for the extension of the deadline, the Agency refers to the complex nature of the case. When does ARIMR plan to pay the compensation for the first three quarters of 2021? Producers of pigs may, by 28 February 2022, apply for aid to compensate for the amount of reduced income due to ASF for the 4th quarter of 2021. Will compensation continue to be paid in 2022 and has the State budget provided for these measures? Following the amendment of the Council of Ministers Regulation on the detailed scope and manner of carrying out certain tasks, ARiMR will be granted interest-free loans to agricultural producers who raise and grow pigs in areas subject to ASF restrictions. Which institution and which banks will be responsible for receiving applications and paying funds? When will the recruitment be launched under this action? In what terms and for what amount can loans be granted? In October 2021, seven counties were designated in the country with a significant reduction in wild boar populations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The reasons for the decision were very numerous outbreaks. ASF in these districts. At what stage is the implementation of this programme? The government provides for the introduction of aid for farmers who, by 15 April 2022, will notify the ARIMR of the marking of pigs born on their holdings during the period from 15 November 2021 to 31 March 2022. Does the government consider it appropriate to extend the time limit for the birth of pigs until 30 June 2022 and to notify the labelling by 15 July 2022? Whether, after the eradication of the pig flock due to the outbreak of ASF and the resumption of production in the closed cycle after a few months, the farmer will be entitled to an aid for breeding sows of 1 000. Evil? One last question, Marshal. In view of the drastic increase in the price of fertilisers and gases, does the government provide for aid to farmers in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u32	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Lech Kołakowski will answer this question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Ryszard Bartosik.]] I'm so sorry. That's the kind of information I had in the material. Excuse me. Minister Richard Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In 2021, from 28 August 2021 to 30 November of that year, pig producers could submit applications for financial aid to compensate for the amount of reduced income obtained from the sale of pigs from the flocks of those producers kept in the restricted area in relation to African swine fever. These conclusions were very much, 7975. In comparison, there were more than 800 proposals in 2020 in 2019. - almost 2,5 thousand, in 2018 - 2 000. The programme's budget for 2021 was PLN 233 million. In view of the above, 5195 decisions were issued under which this amount was allocated. 2559 applications for PLN 130 million remain to be considered and the Agency continues this programme. It will be started this week. As regards procedural considerations, the agreement between the Ministry and the Agency has now been concluded and the funds will be transferred by the Agency to the farmers. As regards the reduced income for the fourth quarter and last year, given the measures taken to place pig producers in the restricted areas of ASF in a better market situation than previously, the fourth quarter of the previous year will be the last quarter for which aid will be granted to compensate for the reduction in pig sales income in accordance with the Council of Ministers Regulation of 4 January 2022 amending the Regulation on the detailed scope and modalities of certain tasks of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As regards loans, agricultural producers which raise or grow pigs in restricted areas may apply for low-interest loans to finance outstanding civil law obligations which have been undertaken by pig producers in the areas of African swine fever. The loans have been granted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture since 2017. The collection of loan applications has been carried out on a continuous basis. The amount of the loans granted to the pig producer may not exceed the amount of the civil liability and, at the same time, depending on the quantity of pigs kept on average annually at the stock premises, the amount from 50 000. Up to 500,000. zł. The loan shall be granted for a maximum of 10 years and the Agency shall not charge fees for the loan. As regards the reduction of wild boars, the main veterinarian in September 2021 recommended additional point-of-the-art sanitary discharges in districts where more than 150,000 are kept. pigs, in order to reduce the risk of spreading the disease from the environment to holdings. Point firing is used as a supplemental tool. After all, continuous firing is carried out and it will continue this year. The state of execution of this firing right now is over 51%. 2222 plays have been shot off. As far as aid to dungeon producers is concerned, on 4 January this year. the so-called regulation was issued by the Council of Ministers. COVID based on legislation related to the COVID epidemic. This assistance will be granted to pig producers (Bells) who are threatened by a loss of liquidity, which runs on 15 November 2021 the holding in which the pigs were kept and who will notify by 15 April this year, in accordance with the rules on the system for the identification and registration of animals, the marking of pigs born between 15 November this year. on its holding on 31 March 2022. This assistance must be notified to the European Commission. This aid may be granted until 30 June this year. Therefore, such time limits in that Regulation. Marshal, just one more sentence. Much has already been said here in the previous question about gas prices, electricity. I just want to add - because this issue concerning agriculture, nitrogen fertilisers was raised in the Member's question - that there was an anti-inflationary shield and a package of solutions that would temporarily abolish or reduce VAT on agricultural inputs, electricity and gas, as well as fertilisers, which should support the agricultural sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski will also ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I didn't get an answer about... By the ASF outbreaks, a herd of pigs was eradicated and it was conducted in a closed cycle. For today this production is stopped for 3 months, the farmer does not produce and yet does not know when he will resume. If she resumes and wants to resume it in a closed cycle, i.e. with the production of dungeons, will she receive this aid of PLN 1000? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u36	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As I said, the Regulation has a strict time frame and will apply to producers who ran the holding where the pigs were kept on 15 November 2021 and until 15 April this year. report pigs born between 15 November and 31 March 2022 on their holding. Thus, the Regulation sets out a time frame for how long it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr President, the additional question can also be asked from the point of view... [[Thank you very much.]] Okay, thank you very much. So we're going to go to the next question, about the window for farmers, which services this window offers for farmers. In this case, Mr Trepek will ask you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u39	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the end of December Ub. On the gov.pl portal, a separate sub-page dedicated to farmers' actions was launched. a window for farmers. The bookmark for farmers contains a catalogue of services and information-formular cards. Minister, I would like this information to be more passed on to farmers. I'd like more information. What services are offered by farmers so-called. a window in the early stages of operation? What things can be done through this service on the Internet without leaving the house? What popularity is this bookmark among farmers at the moment? Is it easy to use? Will users have problems using available services? This is very important at present. Farmers will be able to do a lot of business without leaving the house. We know that agriculture is becoming more and more computerized. Farmers have the Internet in their home, so that it is a very good initiative. I think a lot of farmers will benefit from it. Information, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u40	Thank you very much. Now you will answer the questions raised by Minister Lech Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u41	Dear Marshal, Membership! This service was very expected by agricultural environments, by producers. The rule of law and justice meets these expectations. Ladies and gentlemen! An agreement was concluded between the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and the subordinates supervised by the Minister of Agriculture on 15 April 2021 to cooperate in developing and making available selected digital services to farmers. The aim of this project is to build selected e-services and place them on a separate subpage on the gov.pl portal under the so-called. a window for the farmer. The construction of digital services is a complex process which requires the conversion and adaptation of information systems in individual units, and therefore several services that we want to implement in the near future have been selected as part of the farmer's window for the moment. These will be services that will replace the paper form of applications by electronic form. These will be requests for reimbursement of excise duties on agricultural fuel, agricultural retail trade, notification to the KRUS of lease agreements, payment of suspended part of pension, pensions, reporting of civil law contracts, seed subsidies, field seed assessment and nursery material, entry in the register of supervised entities and the system of operation of organic producers. A window for a farmer is to be a concentrated source of knowledge and a place for the farmer to handle various matters. We want you in one place, with one login and one password - e.g. logged in through a trusted profile - a rural resident could easily handle a lot of agricultural matters. By integrating different systems and databases of individual institutions, the farmer will not have to provide much information. The information needed to complete the application that the farmer intends to submit will be obtained automatically. This will reduce the amount of work done to the minimum necessary and save time to deal with a particular case. In cooperation with the NAP on 29 December 2021 on the main page of the gov. next to the bookmarks for the citizen, entrepreneur and official, a bookmark has been opened for the farmer. This place contains a catalogue of services and information-formular cards. It's about 12 service cards and three e-services. This is the first view of the window for the farmer. It provides the basis for building and making available further digital services. Today, three e-services are available in the farmer's window. In this way, the farmer can fully handle his case on the Internet. The first service is the estimation of agricultural losses caused by drought. It is a matter of applying for an estimate of the losses caused by drought within the meaning of the rules on agricultural and livestock insurance in areas where, according to the drought monitoring carried out by the Institute of Cultivation, Fertilization and Soil Science - the State Research Institute in Puławy, there is a risk of a decrease in yield due to drought. As a result, a protocol can be obtained for the assessment of schools, which is necessary to apply for aid under the aid schemes defined by the Council of Ministers. Another service concerns the granting of payments for areas and RDPs. This is the possibility of applying for direct payments, LFA payments for areas with natural constraints or other specific constraints, agri-environment-climate payments, organic payments, welfare payments and forest payments and for the continuation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 and 2013 and 2014-2020. We also allow you to use the IRZplus portal. The IRZplus portal is an application for livestock owners, which allows, among others. reporting events relating to animals online, registration of the new establishment of the flock, provision of identification numbers for animals. In addition, services are available in the farmer's window in the form of information-formular cards, which inform about the manner in which the matter is handled, the documents required, as well as references to forms if required. It is a kind of signpost that guides the user through the process of handling a given case. This approach is identical to the implementation of e-services also in other areas. A unified way of describing services on gov.pl makes it easier for the user to handle many matters regardless of which public administration unit published the service. Such actions make the newly created services intuitive to the recipient and do not make it difficult to handle the matter. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Further services will be gradually made available in the Farmer's Window, but it should be borne in mind that the construction of new e-services in addition to the adaptation of internal information systems also entails the need to adapt legislation in this regard. These processes are taking place in parallel and further services will be gradually launched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you take advantage of the opportunity to ask a question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this information and I would just like to ask that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture disseminate this information, because maybe not all farmers know that they have the opportunity to use this window for the farmer. But thank you very much for this information, because this is exactly what it is necessary for farmers to simply have an improved handling of their affairs online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u44	And the Minister will respond to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u45	Dear Marshal, Membership! Thank you very much for these questions, really much needed, important for Polish farmers. With regard to making available, yes, I confirm that this information should appear in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture at County level, in the CRUs, in the ODRs, in all institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! Thank you again for these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed to the next Question Time. These will include a reduction in pension income, among others. uniform services in connection with the introduction of the Polish Order. The first question will be asked by Minister Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish Load was to be the gateway to the land of milk and honey flowing, and there was crying and gnashing teeth. There are reviews: the defeat of the Polish Load, the Polish Load hit the weakest. But there are also reactions of our voters, voters write letters. Mr. Zbigniew: I am one of those lucky people who lost on the PiS Polish Łada. I am a retired uniform, I have worked in the police for 30 years, my pension as compared to December 2021 decreased by 98 PLN net. The information comes from the MSWiA Pension and Rent Department. Second: My name is Mirosław and I am a retired officer of the Polish Army. For more than 30 years, I have served my country faithfully to retire in February 2020. In January 2022, my pension was reduced by PLN 389. According to an explanation given by an employee of the Military Pension Office in Warsaw, I learned that reducing my pension is the result of tax changes of the Polish Government. In addition, I was informed that I would probably lose even more in the middle of the year. Minister! The Polish Lad was to be a success of the government, it is a failure, but the worst part is that it does not protect (the bell) acquired rights. The rights acquired are sacred. The Polish Constitution protects the right to acquire every pensioner, every pensioner. What will the government do to protect the pensions and pensions of those who have been reduced on the Polish Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u48	Thank you very much. The question was asked and the answer will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to emphasize that indeed Poland's Load will contribute to the rapid development of our economy regardless of what we read in the press or hear from the honourable states. This is a good program, beneficial for many, many millions of Poles. I'll just remind you of the numbers. 18 million Poles at the end of the year will be satisfied with the effects of our reform, including the least earners, including pensioners and pensioners. 9 million people no longer pay PIT since 1 January. It is people who receive a minimum wage and up to 2/3 of pensioners. Next number: 600,000. This is the number of people who do not pay 32 percent tax this year, because the limit for applying this rate has been increased by 40%. Another 0.5 million are people who will settle with their spouse for the first time, because they did not have this possibility before, and the rules have been liberalised. Next, 64,000. 64,000. this is the number of families that will benefit from the relief PIT-0 for 4+ families. These are people who raise at least four children. This is a great reform, a reform that is not without difficulties, especially at the beginning of the action, but a reform that is right, fair and above all pro-social. I'm just going to answer some specific questions. According to the assumption of tax changes of the Polish Deal, which we will very strongly implement, more money will remain in the pockets 90% Retirement and pensioners, or more than 8 million people. As I mentioned, as many as 2/3 of them, i.e. more than 6 million people in general will stop paying personal income tax. Pensioners with higher benefits will pay a tax only on the first zloty of benefits above the pension of more than 2,5 thousand. zł. And let's remember that $2.5,000. This is the most frequently paid pension in Poland, the average pension. The average pension paid to women is around 2 000. Gross zloty, to men - 3 thousand. gross zloty. In the case of pensioners receiving higher pension benefits, those mentioned by the Member, i.e. up to PLN 12 800, we also want none of them to lose on the Polish Łada. As of 8 January, a regulation has already been in force on the basis of which such a pensioner, including the one receiving a higher benefit of up to 12 800 PLN gross, does not pay from month to month or more. In this way, reform becomes beneficial or neutral Not for 95% anymore pensioners, only for 99,9% pensioners, for all receiving benefits up to PLN 12 800 gross per month. From next month, they will receive a higher pension, and when they pay for February, they will also receive a refund of the overpayment for January. We also want such a pensioner receiving the benefit up to PLN 12 800 not to lose on the Polish Łada not only in monthly settlement, but also in the annual settlement. This is why we are working on a system solution similar to the mid-class relief that workers and entrepreneurs are currently using. The relevant provisions will be presented to the High House at the next session of the Sejm. And I would like to emphasize very strongly: this real money in retirement accounts is not a theory, it's no longer a table in excel, it's not a PowerPoint presentation, it's just real facts that happen in front of our eyes. [[These are facts too, Minister.]] According to the latest data from the ZUS, already in January this year as a result of the Polish Order, the higher pension will receive more than 8150 thousand. Retirement and pensioners. Almost half of these people have already received these higher benefits because benefits are paid cyclically, practically every 5 days: to the first, to the fifth, to the tenth. In two days, on the 15th, another group of pensioners will receive these higher benefits. These higher January benefits will receive more than 95% of all recipients, and only in January, an additional PLN 860 million will appear in their accounts, especially needed now, in a difficult inflationary situation. More than half of this amount has already appeared in their accounts, in their wallets. This is real money, especially needed right now, real money simply affecting their accounts practically every 5 days with the sending of every subsequent tranche of pension payments for January. Thank you very much. [[What about the principle of acquired rights?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u51	Firstly, it is only you who can do so that if according to the CSO at the end of 2020 the pension in Poland was paid 7089 thousand. Retired people, you get $8 million. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] But I wanted to ask questions. The first question is: What will be the situation of pensioners, and it will be those pensioners who have the lowest pension, in a situation where you are eliminating the 14th pension, about which, I remind you, you promised that it would be a systemic solution forever? How does it look when it comes to the profits of pensioners from the Polish Government in relation to how much they received in the framework of their 14th pension? Does that turn out to be zero, or does that go down a little bit? Another point is that, however, those people who no longer have an impact on their lives suddenly found out that they received less in their accounts when it comes to pensions. And the questions are: Why hasn't retired people been relieved of the middle class from the very beginning? Since when can a regulation be amended because, as we know, the solution is statutory and not regulation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question: When will the unitary file with the shape of the entire individual income bill be on the government website? Because so far we have a document from June 2021 and 14 different amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the figures raised by the honourable Member, I would like to stress that the data we have received from the Social Security Office concerns not only pensioners, who are actually over 7 million, less than 8 million, but also pensioners, so that we are talking about these two groups together here. The benefit to be paid on a regular basis is the 13th pension each year, not the 14th pension. [[How?]] At the same time, I would like to point out that... [[After all, Mrs. Arent has just been proven to be lying. Mr. Moths proved to Mrs. Arent that she was lying. It was said that it was systemic.]] Excuse me, miss, now is the time to respond to the Minister. You'll be able to ask an additional question. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: However, for those who reach the most common pension, i.e. 2500 PLN, the benefit resulting from tax changes of the Polish Load amounts to 2200 PLN and this is paid monthly, at the amount of approx. 200 PLN every month. So that this is real support, and it's not just such an accident, paid once a year, it's the support that appears on pension accounts just when it's most needed when spending on life is done. The uniform text of the Personal Income Tax Act is published on the seym website, so that... If a uniform text is needed also on the pages of the Ministry of Finance, then we are open to simply publishing it. Thank you very much. [[I'm asking you for an extra question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u54	Do you, although the pot is already exhausted, want to ask a question? [[Yes, I'd like to ask you an additional question.]] Well, that's very special.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I wanted to say that I did not hear the exact answer to the question, what is the difference between what was received from the 14th and what results from the Polish Order. Secondly, Mrs. Arent has already been checked on this statement. Exactly at the Convention in Płock in 2019 it sounded like this: In the following year also 14th pension will be permanent. And this is Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński's statement. Therefore, I would like to say that this has been verified and please do not repeat this lie. On the other hand, I asked for a specific answer to the question of what is the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u56	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u57	We can provide you with information on a particular difference in writing, as this simply requires the conversion depending on the particular category of pensioner, depending on the amount of the pension. Thank you. [[I simply asked: the lowest retirement, very specific, one type.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u58	The Rules of Procedure of this point do not provide for this type of discussion, so we thank the Minister. [[Applause]] We are approaching another question, which is addressed to the Minister of Health, concerning the envisaged forms of support for indebted medicinal products which improve their efficiency as part of their merger. The first question will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! The rule of law and justice, on an unprecedented scale, increases annual expenditure on health care. In 2020 we exceeded PLN 100 billion. This amount is PLN 133 billion for next year. Including money on COVID from the outside of the system, it is almost PLN 150 billion. That's twice as much as it was in the years of previous governments, e.g. as compared to 2015, this is a double increase. Hospital expenditures are also growing. This is an increase of PLN 130 million next year, to the level of PLN 900 million. That's the amount that comes out of the state budget for hospitals. Nevertheless, in this situation, some hospitals operate without debts and reduce debt as much as possible, but there are those that are stuck in debt. In this situation, some hospitals undertake an own-initiative modernisation effort, e.g. by linking hospitals in a given city, in a given village. It is a huge undertaking, on a large scale. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: Are there any bonuses for hospitals that make an effort to get out of debt, to improve their financial results through reorganisation, through a deep reform, for the Ministry in the framework of the hospital reform, to support this reform, in order to appreciate their efforts and to ensure that other hospitals go this way? We know there's a hospital modernisation fund. Therefore, can the Minister tell us, first of all, what is the percentage of hospitals that do not have financial problems, and what is the percentage of hospitals that have such problems, and can those who are making efforts to repair count on government support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u60	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u61	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! There's a lot of threads. in this question, so I'm gonna try to systematize it a little bit. I will start by saying that, in spite of the increase in expenditure on the health sector, we see problems in the hospital sector. It's not a secret. We see problems that often have a historical background, often these are also some issues related to management efficiency, and some structural issues, and some issues related to securing such or other needs. So this financial situation is certainly multifaceted and it's quite complicated to give one reason. However, in order to meet up - not only are they increasing expenditures, not only growing contracts in the hospital sector, but we have prepared a draft system solutions, a draft law on the modernisation of the hospital sector, a certain structural reform in the hospital sector. This is a draft law which, on December 30, 2 weeks ago, we directed to a public consultation that is ongoing. They'll be over by the end of January. The project provides some solutions for the modernisation and improvement of business efficiency, improvement of the economic and financial situation of hospital entities and I would probably spend quite a bit of time just discussing the project. But perhaps I will move on to the substance, i.e. to those solutions which are intended primarily to support these restructuring processes financially. First of all, we are planning a partial extension of hospitals under this law. I say: partial, because firstly, we want to address the most urgent needs, for which we want to allocate about PLN 3.5 billion over the next 4 to 5 years. It's only going to be for debt. And when it comes to the extension - we have already discussed it with Minister Niedzielski - it is nothing for free, because it will be an extension related to the preparation, presentation and acceptance by the newly created Agency for the Development of Hospitals of the development and repair program. As you have rightly pointed out, this project may also address issues related to the hospital's structure, with the combination of hospitals, with a certain profile, with the consolidation of certain areas in a given hospital. However, I point out immediately: this is not the only option nor is it a requirement of this law that hospitals should connect in order to receive such funds. No, it's one possibility. In fact, in the competence of hospital directors or in the competence of hospital bodies, we leave the path of restructuring behind. So that, as I say, this debt financing is one of the sources of security or assurance, let's call it, such a smoother entry into these restructuring processes. But we do indeed realise that often such restructuring processes related to mergers, consolidation or a change in the profile of part of the hospital's activities may also require other measures, in particular investment measures. As far as these investments are concerned, we have prepared, let's call it, two support vehicles. One vehicle is the already mentioned sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities. It was defined or separated by the Medical Fund in the Medical Fund Act at the end of 2020. During the process on this law, we concluded in it a point which says that this sub-fund can support the restructuring and consolidation processes of medicinal entities. It can be said that today we are deliberately not yet defining detailed solutions, competitive conditions, criteria in the resolution of the Council of Ministers concerning this sub-fund. We focused on other goals, waiting for final legal solutions. The hospital reform law, as I said, is in consultation. I hope that in the first quarter or at the turn of the first and second quarters, we will have a chance to discuss it. Somewhere at the end of the legislative process, we will, of course, proceed in parallel to amend the resolution of the Council of Ministers in order to prepare financial support for consolidation processes. There's a lot of money in this subfund. Today there is 7 billion PLN allocated there for the next few years, so we will be able to implement investment support processes related to reprofile. But already this year, regardless of this sub-fund, we are launching competition procedures in support of the long-term care area, mainly in support of care and treatment activities. We know perfectly well and our analysis shows that many hospitals show great willingness and great interest to profile part of the hospital activity, often unused for care and care activities. Already this year we will announce the competition - 700 million PLN allocation. This is a very large allocation, given that this area has been systematically, from the level of the Ministry of Health, and also from other levels, we have never supported. We really put a big accent on change, we translate an accent on long-term care, on the range of care and medicine. It's one mechanism. The second is the measures in the National Reconstruction Plan. In this case also in the course of negotiations (the bell) with the European Commission... One minute, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. ...we emphasized quite strongly the need to support the process of change in Polish hospitalization. It was a difficult negotiation. The European Commission did not want to support the hospital sector exceptionally strongly, although for today these findings are such that a very large pool - PLN 9.5 billion, almost PLN 10 billion - has been set aside to support the hospital sector. However, the European Commission has given us quite difficult conditions because these must be measures linked to the change and reform of the hospital sector. So that we dedicate these measures to certain changes, mergers, consolidation, changes in the hospital sector. We're all waiting for these resources to be mobilised. We, in the Ministry, regardless of the discussions at the level of the European Commission or the suspension of these measures, are working on solutions. I hope, and that is the plan, that in the fourth quarter of this year we will launch the first competition proceedings in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering the question. The second question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u63	I just have a question. Minister, is there a risk that hospitals that have already begun restructuring will be in a worse situation than those that will do so after the entry into force of the law? Because it would be very unfavorable. Is there such a danger that hospitals that have already made their own efforts in the last year will not benefit? This is a process that, in fact, begins. Is there such a threat? Because I'm afraid there won't be... I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My extra question. Hospitals are currently carrying out additional tasks to safeguard the current, exceptional epidemiological situation. Will the fund or the modernisation sub-fund be able to finance the creation, i.e. building next to existing facilities, of modular hospitals to implement the necessary medical actions against people infected with SARS-CoV-2? Next to, i.e. the staff we currently have could be used (The Bell) in the activities of these objects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u65	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u66	Well, maybe it's just a refill. I don't think I can answer so clearly today 100% of what Mrs Butterwska asked. It is well known that entities which have even started this year or this year start the process of change, restructuring, have started multi-annual processes, because these are not short processes. Thus, it may not be possible to refinance some of the actions that today are the result of an already initiated procedure, but processes related to the change in the structure of debt, with the extension, related to the investment process, e.g. related to profiling, these are processes that last a longer period. So I believe that even if not 100% and if the hospital or setting-up bodies take action with their own resources, then after the entry into force of the law it may not necessarily be refinanced, but it will certainly finance further recovery and development plans. However, as for Mrs Banaszek's question, it surprised me a little, so unfortunately, if you'll excuse me, I will answer more from the prepared materials. Surely, we are successfully supporting pandemic actors. Not so long ago, literally within a month, we launched another tranche of COVID investment funds. PLN 800 million from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, which mostly came to the hands of voivodships to support regional hospitals. It is PLN 650 million - 150 million remained under the responsibility of the Minister of Health - mainly to support hospitals of supra-regional, clinical, resort and possibly institutes. It's one of those tranches. So far, we have spent several billions of investment funds to support hospitals, especially in the fight against pandemics. From the resources themselves related to, for example, those at the disposal of the Minister for Health, National Resources, Anti-Fraud Fund or EU Programmes, for example, part of the funds, e.g. In the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and Environment, we have just transformed into COVID funds - we have changed their destiny. Only PLN 1.5 billion of additional funds were mobilised in this programme last year. In addition, the REACT project, the EU project, post-pandemic - the total allocation for the health sector is PLN 1.8 billion, if I remember correctly. The first competition has already started, to support hospitals and infectious branches - the allocation is PLN 200 million. At the end of December this competition was launched, and the next one will also be. She asked about modular hospitals specifically related to new ones, I understand, functions or development. insulation sites. We do not necessarily assume such support in this respect, but within the COVID measures I have been talking about, it is the 800 million, if hospitals identify such needs and it is approved by individual voivods, then, with a certain question mark here, I think there is no problem with such support. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 40 hrs. 10 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed with the next question. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska will be the first to ask them. It will concern the errors of the Polish Deal resulting in the reduction of Poles' income, among others. single parents raising children, entrepreneurs, teachers and beneficiaries 1%. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u68	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The possibility of clearing a single parent together with a child was eliminated in the framework of the Polish Deal. On the other hand, this solution still exists for childrenless marriages. In the general sense of society, this solution is not fair, it is even discriminatory for single fathers and single mothers. It could be considered a good joke that perhaps the government wants to treat it as a mechanism to mobilise couples to marry so that they can benefit from relief. But it's not a joke, it's a very serious subject and it's a case. As you can see, however, a single parent is no longer considered a family in the favor of those who rule. The effects of the changes were indicated by the expert study of the Centre for Economic Analysis, CenEA, carried out on behalf of the Office of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence of the Senate. I'm just going to quote one sentence from the ww. analysis: Due to the withdrawal of the possibility of joint accounting with the child on income above PLN 4050 gross monthly independent parents will benefit from the reform less or lose more than marriages without children for which the possibility of joint clearance has been maintained. There is no doubt that the solution adopted, which deprives a single parent of the possibility of taxing a child, is very harmful. Single mothers, single fathers ask why they should be punished for their hard work. Why do many real sacrifices and overcoming organizational difficulties in order to ensure the best possible conditions for their children not meet with recognition? Raising a child by one parent means additional costs related to, for example, the need to provide care. Why is this exclusion discredited by their status as a family? Is this reform, Minister (The Bell) really social? In view of this unfortunate provision by the Ministry, will the government offer to single parents another relief or other privilege in this place? Will the Ministry of Finance analyze the regulation of repairing this evident injustice in the Polish Order? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u69	Thank you very much, Member. The answer to the question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Jan Sarnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u70	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the issue of changing preferences for single parents, I would like to stress that it was not a simple elimination of a parent's joint settlement with a single parent who was raised by him, but the replacement of this option with a new relief, i.e. a tax deduction of PLN 1500. This amount is higher than the average benefit of PLN 1154 for last year, which single parents received on average before 2022. This preference will apply instead of the existing joint settlement with the child, which means that the majority of people who have benefited from this solution will continue to benefit from it, much more so than before. Importantly, the new relief also adds up with the existing relief for children, so that there is no exclusion or any substitution of one tool to another. Regarding other tools for protecting single parents, non-tax tools, family resort is the leading resort, and in the event of additional support needs we are also in the current contact with that resort and we are open to introducing other tax solutions, but also not only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u71	Now for the extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! By introducing such huge tax changes, the consequences should be anticipated. On the other hand, entrepreneurs charged with additional taxes or forced to raise their employees' salaries will increase prices, which will affect inflation. Changes in leasing for many employers and entrepreneurs are completely incomprehensible. Paybars, too. Teachers, police or other people's salaries, pensions - reduced in January. Complete chaos and mess. But once again, unfortunately, these solutions are hitting the people who need our help most, the ones who have benefited from 1% so far. transferred to public benefit organisations. Tax changes make it impossible for some people to transfer this 1% for the benefit of the needy. It has been calculated that thanks to the work of the foundation, thanks to 1% to people fighting diseases, to people undergoing rehabilitation, people with cancer, people with disabilities went to 907 million PLN. Now the people who used this 1% They're scared. What will happen to their extra income? What about the money they spent on the things the state should put on? Now the question is: Will the state increase the percentage that could have been allocated to such persons, or will it use other system tools? We are fully aware (the bell) that this 1% It's a patch on a system that helps the most in need. But at a time when you do not offer other system tools, support for people with disabilities, rehabilitation, treatment of rare diseases, treatment of cancer, this money was necessary to survive, to fight for your health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u73	Thank you very much. Minister Jan Sarnowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In 2021, public benefit organisations received a 1% title the amount of the tax due is PLN 972 million. As regards this year, 2022, public benefit organisations will receive funds according to the old rules, on the basis of the 2021 tax settlement. If it is taken as the basis for the planned implementation of PIT revenue from the Budget Act 2022, in 2023, i.e. in the following year, public benefit organisations should receive from the accounts for 2022 appropriations exceeding PLN 1 billion, i.e. no less than they received this year. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance is open to dialogue, is in the current contact with the Council of Public Use Activities and where the existing ecosystem of public benefit support needs to be complemented, we are open to making appropriate legal changes. Here, however, I would like to stress that, in the perspective of this year and most of next year, any reduction in the amount of funds from 1% to the organisation of public benefit may not be possible. It's just not gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[So what's gonna change? How are you gonna fix this next year? System solutions... what else is going to happen?]] Minister, you're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: The work on changes to complement the public benefit support scheme will continue this year. These are not changes that the Ministry of Finance should propose on its own. These should be solutions developed jointly with third sector organisations and beneficiaries of 1%. So that, above all, there is no immediate risk of reducing funding for the activities of a public benefit organisation within the next year, and this is also the time to assess the real impact of these changes on the level and, above all, the structure of their funding, and to work together with these organisations and with bodies at government level that coordinate the dialogue between government administration and the third sector, to develop such solutions. This will be one of our priorities for the coming months. I strongly encourage you to contact the Ministry of Finance with all organizations who want to engage in this kind of dialogue and this kind of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u75	Thank you very much. The next question - and it will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus - will be about the new edition of the comprehensive support programme for families.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u76	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On 4 November 2016, the Sejm passed a law on support for pregnant women and families. The purpose of the Act was to regulate for the first time in a comprehensive way - I would like to stress this word: comprehensive - support for pregnant women and families, with particular emphasis on complicated pregnant women and in a situation of maternity failure, as well as for children who have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness threatening their lives, which arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth. On the basis of this law, a comprehensive support programme for families was drawn up, adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers of 20 December 2016. Like I said, it was the first comprehensive support. It was implemented not only by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. It also included health care and financial assistance. It was a solution, it seemed at that moment, very innovative, new, as I said, comprehensive. In this question, we would like to ask you about the summary of the functioning of the "For Life' programme, the existing functioning. What elements of the programme can so far be considered the most useful to support women during pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum, with particular emphasis on, once again, complicated pregnant women, and support for their families, as well as early child development? How many funds have so far been allocated from the State budget (the bell) to implement the Lifetime Programme? Now a new edition has been announced, so you can see that this program needs to be completed. That is why we would also like to ask what it will involve. a new edition of the program "For Life." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u77	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will answer this question by Minister Paweł Wdzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u78	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, the Lifetime Programme, as you mentioned here, started in January 2017. Its aim was to provide comprehensive support for families with a disabled child or a disabled person, but above all to support pregnant women at risk of disability. This programme, more widely than the Lifestyle Act itself, provided support in six different areas, such as early support, palliative care, hospice care, and support in the care of pregnant women. As far as the implementation of this programme in previous years is concerned, as its success, it can first be indicated that early support can be activated in such a way that it is close to the family. In 302 powiats the leading coordination and rehabilitation and care centres were established, so-called. WOKRO, which provide assistance and support in this early support for families with disabled children. I am very sorry, honourable Members, and I ask you to focus on the Minister's response. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Support for pregnant women was also an important element. In line with the provisions governing the operation of this programme 2021, this was the year in which the Council of Ministers was obliged to carry out its evaluation, and therefore Prime Minister Morawiecki set up an inter-ministerial team in November 2020, headed by him, which reviewed the programme. As a result of this review, we have made some important changes. It was clear to us, also in the light of what was happening at the end of 2020, i.e. the Constitutional Court's judgment that the issue of support for pregnant women is crucial, and that is why very large resources have been earmarked for the development of medical support, diagnosis and care of pregnant women, including various types of medical activities, intrauterine treatments to save the lives of children at risk of disability. The budget of the programme, which is a certain indicator - it is not a key, but a certain indicator - has been increased to the period 2022.2026 from PLN 3.1 billion, so it was in the previous four-year edition, to PLN 5950 million. Almost twice. These 6 billion PLN rounded are measures, most of which 60%, 58% exactly, is foreseen in the area of medical activities. It's in the NFZ budget. 25% of the appropriations are State budget appropriations, the remaining funds are the Labour Fund, the Solidarity Fund and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We have introduced a few new measures, which are primarily designed to improve what we know so far, that it has not received the highest grade, where our parents pointed out that we had to supplement it. This is primarily an informational sphere, psychological care and psychological support, in terms of prenatal diagnosis related to the risk of disability, which we move to hospitals in the first degree of preference. As I said, it is very important to increase measures in the area of care for pregnant women. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another thing to mention is the development of leading coordination and rehabilitation centres, where already this year we increase the budget by 20%, raising it from PLN 77 million to PLN 100 million. This is also linked to the fact that NGOs and other stakeholders will be allowed, which may prove effective in areas related to disability. As I said, 302 counties have WOKRO, in 78 these facilities are not yet available, which is why we want to supplement this year. Another important action since 2023 is the change of the assistant family - it was also the Supreme Audit Chamber that showed us as a basically point of failure - to advise the family. We move it from social assistance areas to the education area to these leading coordination and rehabilitation and care centers and start this year's information portal with the helpline to create a support string, so that the mother, who has been left with a diagnosis herself very often so far, can run first through the helpline advisor, then by a real advisor in the area of her residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. She will ask one more additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u80	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! You raised the question of the Constitutional Court's judgment. I was a representative of the Sejm at the meeting of the Constitutional Tribunal in October 2020, which concerned a ruling on the non-compliance with the Constitution of the provision on the admissibility of abortion where there is a suspicion that the child may have a defect, be ill, disabled. The Constitutional Tribunal asked in very detail about these solutions, indicating that they should be strengthened. Minister, I am very pleased with what you have said, namely that these solutions will be strengthened and that there will be more resources in the health field (the Bell), which is financed by the health measures provided for. I'd like to ask you about prenatal tests, genetic tests, because after the verdict, there was a lot of heyte and false information suggesting that we're trying to reduce, stop these genetic tests. On the contrary, this law gives the opportunity to carry out more genetic research and is devoted to this large amount of money. These are billions of zlotys, also spent on treatment in the womb of children who have been conceived and are ill, or when there is some danger to these children. I know this is not a sphere of the Ministry of the Family, but if the Minister could approximate the solutions that work and how they work, as well as what you said there would be increased expenditure, I would ask for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u81	Thank you very much, Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u82	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! I'll answer that. I wouldn't want you to feel that prenatal research is a way to heal all children because they're not. However, what we are doing is undoubtedly about increasing the budget, which, as I said, reaches 2.8 billion PLN. And this is in the vast majority of the funds remaining in the area of the Ministry of Health. They are just so that these tests can function in the diagnostic sphere, i.e. so that we know as soon as possible and as much as possible about the disability that threatens or occurs when the child is born, and that we can also take treatment in many cases. Prenatal treatment is possible. Already in previous editions of the programme we carried out several hundred intrauterine treatments, which significantly reduced the effects of disability or completely eliminated disability. These are tasks that will surely be further developed. On the other hand, we have to make one thing clear: the Constitutional Court's judgment did not concern the issue of abortion at all - contrary to what unfortunately a large part of the opposition suggests. It concerned the right to life of persons with disabilities. [[Applause]] And that's something we need to be clear about. In this judgment we finally guarantee people like me - I have a flaw since birth - the right to live. A lethal defect in the case of this thousand abortions concerned about 10% cases, the rest were abortions due to disability. So these two things need to be separated. Another issue is the discussion about the right to abortion and we are not conducting it here at the moment. On the other hand, in the Life Programme, which is not only an economic, social programme, but also an axiological programme, a program that indicates the value of life, we show that for us, our government, our group, for our groups (the Bell) the matter of life of every man regardless of his form and physical condition is an absolute priority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. I see that there are already Members in the Chamber who will be asking a question marked with a number. 9. So I would ask you very much to ask Mrs Joanna this question... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Mark Polak... [[Yes.]] ...they will be asking about the benefits for Polish families resulting from the implementation of the programme. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The family is at the centre of the government's attention. The flagship program was the 500+ program, but there are also many other pro-family programs. From 1 January 2022 for the second and every subsequent child in a family from the age of 12. up to 36 months of age will be entitled to additional benefit: family care capital. This programme responds to the needs of young families who will facilitate their return to the labour market. What interest does the program have, and how many families can benefit from it? What funding has been earmarked for its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u85	Thank you very much. Now the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Referring to what the Member has said, I would like to stress once again that family-owned caring capital is a very important and necessary support for families raising a second child and another from 2 to 3 years of age, which may cost a lot. I would like to ask how many children can receive this support and what is the interest of this witnessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u87	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to answer the questions asked by Minister Barbara Socha, who is the Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u88	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Family care capital is a new benefit for families. We estimate that this year it will be covered by 615 thousand. children. For this purpose, PLN 3 billion was secured in the state budget. This benefit is a very important complement to the existing system for family policies. All of us who have had little children are well aware that the most difficult time, full of challenges, as well as very expensive for the family, especially for parents, are the first 3 years of the child's life. Every family, every woman who finishes maternity leave, who ends parental leave, at the time when the child ends a year, faces a huge challenge and a huge dilemma: Do you want to go back to work? When do I get back to work? How to organize care? How do I finance it? How can we combine this new world of parenting with the world of work? This is a challenge that accompanies basically every mother, even when children are older. We women, when we talk, always go down on it. It's an eternal dilemma. This is a solution that we want to help families make decisions that best serve the family, because the situation of each family is different. The great advantage of this benefit is its flexibility, which is that it is primarily a benefit independent of family income, it is a universal benefit. Secondly, it is a benefit that is entitled to any form of care that parents decide. If a mother decides that she wants to extend her time with a child at home, she wants to accompany the child longer during the first few months of her life, and she resigns from her work and the income associated with it, then the benefit of this loss is offset to some extent. If your parents decide that your mother is going back to work immediately, then the benefit can be used to cover both daycare fees and the costs of all other forms of external care. It's grandma or babysitter or other forms. Finally, thirdly, this benefit is flexible because we offer two options for using it: either in a lower version but spread over the whole period of the second and third years of the child's life, i.e. 500 PLN for 24 months, or in a shortened version, but in a double version, i.e. the total capital of 12 thousand. zł can be paid for a year in 12 instalments - by the year chosen from this interval between the 13th and 36th month of the child's life. The programme has great interest. For yesterday we had already filed 353 thousand. applications, at 615 thousand. the persons to whom the benefit will be granted this year. That's 59%. children. At the same time, an application for this benefit may be submitted no earlier than 3 months before the child's 12th month of age. So today these applications can already be submitted by parents of 9-month-old children and all parents of children who are already 12 months old and have not yet reached 3 years old, i.e. those who are in kindergarten age. On this occasion, I strongly encourage all parents in this situation to submit these proposals necessarily in January, because only then will it be paid in full. If it's later, it's for every month. Thank you very much, that's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer to my colleagues' questions. The Family Care Capital programme is extremely important. You can see he's hit because he's very expected by his parents. I had many questions from a large group of people last year when the government announced this program. That's why I'm happy... And the number of notifications that have already arrived at the moment is also evidence of this, in fact in the first days of the programme's operation. As the Minister said, nearly 60% of applications have already been received by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I welcome this next instrument of support for Polish families, Law and Justice is consistent when it comes to supporting families, but I have one more question. The programme also has a demographic dimension and I wanted to ask what are the forecasts for the increase in the childhood rate (the bell) for the following years in connection with the implementation of this programme, as well as other programmes of the Government of Law and Justice. I'm asking you kindly for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u91	Thank you very much, Member. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very broad question, so I will try very synthetically to answer it. For a comprehensive, planned, consistent and, above all, long-term policy to be created and developed, a family-friendly policy is being established, a demographic strategy is being established, a document that will soon be held at the Council of Ministers. In this document, which was presented in June ub. A comprehensive approach is made to child-related issues and sets out directions for action in all areas that affect childhood. We are in a very difficult situation, the almost 2-year pandemic period is obviously not helping us in this area, while our efforts are aimed at raising the fertility rate. We estimate that in the perspective of 20 years - assuming that we implement the strategy consistently and coherently - we are able to get closer to the level of generation replacement. Let me remind you that there are countries in the European Union - in the European Union, i.e. in our cultural, civilization and economic circle - which significantly increase childhood. Above all, stable and long-term policies are needed to achieve this. The voices we hear here, what needs to be endured, what needs to be reduced, what needs to be introduced in return, are of course needed as part of a constructive debate, because we are all looking for the best possible solutions and we want family policy to be as effective as possible. On the other hand, drastic changes or restrictions in programmes often announced in various statements, especially during various opposition speeches, do not serve to convince the public that these programmes are stable. Only if today there is a belief of young Poles that these programmes will actually continue to exist, only in such a situation do they have the chance to influence decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. Okay, we're just gonna get to the last question. Mr Kapinos will ask it, and it will concern the functioning of the Polish Investment Zone - a support instrument for entrepreneurs, which allows them to obtain tax relief when creating new investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the middle of this year. 4 years from the implementation in our country of the Polish Investment Zone - a support instrument for entrepreneurs, which allows them to obtain tax relief when creating new investments. His main idea was to go out with the possibility of supporting entrepreneurs outside the special economic zone. I would like to ask you a question about the functioning of the Polish Investment Zone. How many support decisions have been issued within the Polish Investment Zone since the beginning of its existence and how many decisions have been issued during the COVID-19 pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, will answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 2018 was a groundbreaking year for investors, because by 2018 economic zones were in force, which by a resolution of the Council of Ministers received a specific area in which to invest and for this purpose received support. This was because, at times, an entrepreneur in the city of X had to look for an area far from his place of residence, which was 200 km away, so that he could invest his money and receive support there. In 2018 our parliament passed a law on the Polish Investment Zone, according to which Poland as a whole became one big economic zone. This meant that all entrepreneurs who wanted to invest could invest in the place where they lived anywhere they could afford to take this step. This in turn resulted in a sharp increase in these investments. Within the Polish Investment Zone, a total of 1521 support decisions were issued from September 2018 to the end of 2021. All companies declared investments of PLN 73 400 million and declared 31 569 new jobs. Of course, we thought COVID would slow it down. Nothing more wrong. Entrepreneurs, also with the help of the government and our decisions to save jobs, have made these investments not so small since March 2020. - let's say that this is how we count COVID - by the end of 2021 more than 1000 decisions were made, 1032 decisions to support over PLN 50 billion of declared value and more than 21 300 new jobs were declared. All this made the investment market in Poland more attractive. When investors come and we ask them why they want to invest in Poland - I am talking about foreign investors - they give three reasons that are worth mentioning. The geographical location of Poland is, so to speak, very good at the moment, we become such a hub of Europe when it comes to investment. The second important thing is the economic stability of Poland. This is shown by all the rankings - we did very well in the pandemic era, because we are in the sixth place when it comes to all countries. And a third, very important argument that should certainly be proud. all of us: they praise our employees, they say that we have very educated staff, that Poles are a very hardworking nation. Therefore, such investments are very much carried out with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will also be asked by Mr Frederick Kapinos.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u98	Thank you. Minister! These are the impressive numbers you gave here, the number of companies that received the decision to support them. I would also like to ask about the amount of investment declared in 2021 by the companies that received the decision to support as well as the number of jobs declared by the companies that received the decision to support it. I would also like the Minister to tell you how many SMEs there were, the companies that got the decision to support them. Are these Polish companies mostly, or are these foreign companies - those which the decision to support received? What preferential conditions will entrepreneurs be able to rely on in the future under this instrument? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u100	Thank you very much. 2021 is a record year for investment in Poland, namely in 2021 all economic zones issued 713 support decisions, which compared to 2020, when they were 372, represents a real increase of 92%. The declared amount in 2021 is over PLN 37 billion, never in history. Poland did not happen, this is again an increase of 145% compared to 2020. And declared jobs - almost 17 thousand. new jobs declared in 2021 This is another increase of 186% compared to 2020. This question about Polish capital is very important, because in the case of PSI and economic zones it always seemed to all Poles, I also used to think that this applies only to foreign companies, large companies. Nothing more wrong. In 2021 70% out of these 713 support decisions concerned the capital of Polish companies. This also shows that, so to speak, the potential of what it is - that they took advantage of these companies' opportunities, with foreign companies that were created here, that they were developing. 60%, on the other hand. they are small and medium-sized enterprises. This also shows, at 713 companies, that this percentage of small Polish companies is growing equally. That's what we're really excited about. Another indicator worth mentioning - the eastern wall. She was always in a worse position, because the road infrastructure caused that in the southern or western part of Poland there were more of these investments - proximity to Germany etc. Today, this is the same indicator as in 2020, 25%, but then it was, as I said, 370 decisions of everyone, and right now we have 713. In view of the above, there is a significant increase in the eastern wall. In 2021 it was 172 decisions for almost PLN 8 billion (The Bell) invested on the eastern wall. Mr. Marshal, one more minute, I'll tell you what else is ahead of us. The regulation was issued at the end of the year, which is intended to facilitate business activities, especially for our small cities, which lose their socio-economic functions, but also for those companies that want to reinvest. We have assumed that support can also be provided to companies that are currently going to invest less. So far, for example, in reinvestments in such richer areas, 10 million had to be invested, and at the moment we are halving it to 5 million. And we are trying to make it easier for these entrepreneurs to even stimulate the market for Polish investments, which are private ones - we want to reduce the eligible costs for all these companies. This is very important. It also changes from 1 January 2022 to public aid targeting different regions, to individual voivodships. This is due to consultation with the European Commission. In areas that are richer in investment, this aid will be less, and where there is greater unemployment, this aid will be more. That's what we're really excited about. We are also pleased that this year is a record year for Poland in terms of investments, and I am convinced that 2022 will be equally successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u101	Thank you, Minister. The Minister's reply concludes this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on government shielding and the introduction of an anti-inflationary shield will be considered at the meeting of the Sejm, due to the international situation in the energy and gas market, as proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. We therefore proceed to consider this point and ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Zubowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u102	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, the main topics of talks in Polish homes are the benefits of Polish Load and fears caused by rising electricity and gas prices or inflation. Therefore, we want to talk about the shielding activities of the Polish government and the introduction of an anti-inflationary shield due to the international situation in the energy and gas market. High Izbo! In the face of the ever-growing global markets for electricity and gas prices, as well as the cost of CO2 emission allowances resulting from the European Union's climate policy for millions of Poles and hundreds of thousands of Polish companies, action is important to combat increases, to provide financial compensation and in the long term. The reform of the EU ETS. A key factor influencing the increase in gas price across Europe, not only in Poland, which must be stressed, is the application of non-competitive practices by Russian Gazprom, whose aim is to enforce the certification of the gas pipeline. Nord Stream 2, and I don't think it's surprising for anyone who's not an EU official. In addition, in the case of Poland, whose energy mix is mainly based, although in recent years it has changed very much, on coal, the impact of emission allowances costs on the price of energy is huge. Let me remind you that their price has recently been between EUR 80 and EUR 90 per tonne. In the case of Polish households, this is responsible for around 60% the final price for electricity. The ETS should be checked by the European Commission and equipped with mechanisms effectively and rapidly reacting to rapid price fluctuations. Why? Because despite the huge increase in emission allowances prices over a short period of time, the mechanisms currently contained in the Directive did not work. I would add that it is a pity that, during the recent vote in the Sejm, the Members of the opposition did not support the request to reform this system. And looking to the future, all the elements of the Fit for 55 package proposed by the European Commission should be analysed in detail in terms of their impact on the cost increase of both energy and other products, because there are voices that the implementation of these proposals could result in such a large scale of increases and burdens on the economy that we will reminiscently mention the current gas or electricity prices. In the face of the current challenges, the government has prepared a government anti-inflationary shield containing a cover supplement, which is intended to direct a stream of more than PLN 4.7 billion to nearly 7 million Polish households. This shield has also been extended to include new solutions under the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield 2.0. At the same time, the government has drawn up a law on specific solutions to protect gas fuel customers in the context of the gas market - this is what the committee is working on - and has proposed a reform of the EU ETS to the European Commission. It must be made clear and clear that inflation increases are due, among others. it is the prices of energy, electricity, oil or gas carriers, and once again stress that the government has taken and continues to take effective action to reduce their growth. And while inflation has now reached unquoted levels throughout Europe for many years, it has not been everywhere decided to react so quickly and comprehensively, even despite the risk of conflict with EU authorities. I am referring, for example, to the desire to lower VAT rates below EU minimum levels. This was decided, although our predecessors in the same situation did nothing. The finance minister Rostowski said that abolishing excise duty on gasoline was a mistake. Donald Tusk was looking for a magic button to lower product prices. Ewa Kopacz assured that after 2019 there would be no price increase, in the meantime giving 1 billion PLN to Gazprom and completely, as shown by the declassified report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, failing to negotiate gas supplies with Russia. I am talking about this because today we are talking about effects, effects, countering high prices, and we must also remember the reasons why we are in the current situation. Minister! I also ask for information on the development of renewable energy sources in Poland. Some opposition politicians claim that this development has slowed down under the rule of law and justice. I think it's different. So please inform whether it is true that at the end of 2015 we had about 4 thousand in Poland. Prosumers, and now there are about 800,000 of them, which would mean approx. A 200-fold increase? And what is the implementation of the previously planned indicators for the implementation of the energy mix? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Minister of Climate and Environment for Anna Moscow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for the debate on this subject and for all the questions asked. Yesterday, Prime Minister Sasin made quite clear the situation on the gas market, on the energy market and the reasons for these growths that we are seeing today. And, of course, we could probably end the debate at this stage and say that it was all because of Gazprom that it was all because of the European Union and the ETS, because the Platform introduced a stock exchange obligation. We could say that. We could also say, like the European institutions... [[Voice from the hall: You have lifted up.]] ...which in their ESAP reports -- this is the equivalent of our URE -- and ESMA -- this is the equivalent of such an exchange, as far as the ETS is concerned -- said it was a hot summer and it's cold winter that this is the reason for the increase, calmly moving to further acceptance of the ETS system. We could accept this situation by saying that everything is independent of us, it is external forces, and not reacting to what is happening in terms of prices and the situation on the gas market and on the energy market. In the meantime, in a very short time, we have taken up a comprehensive package of fast, well-developed and responsive solutions. First action. It is in the committee that a bill is being processed, an additional shield is attached to the situation on the gas market. What will this shield give Polish citizens and Polish institutions? As a result of rapid action, the entry into force of this law from the vending machine all housing communities and cooperatives will be subject to a tariff. All entities: hospitals, clinics, schools, crèches, foster care institutions, public benefit organisations, social cooperatives, voluntary firefighters and a number of other entities, which are also in this law, will be able to benefit from the tariff. Second major action: zero VAT on food from 1 February. Thanks to this action the average Polish family will save about PLN 45 per month by July this year. Third action: zero VAT rate on gas. Thanks to the reduction of this VAT rate from 1 January from 23% to 8%, and from 1 February to July from 8% to 0% The rise in household gas prices will be one of the lowest in Europe. Fourth action: reducing VAT to 5%. Since 1 January 2022, the shield solutions have reduced VAT to heat from 23% to 8%. The next step is to reduce from 8% to 5%. This solution is a referral Almost every citizen, to anyone who, within the framework of a housing cooperative, whether a community, a family house is connected to a heating network, to a gas network. The solution until July this year. Another, fifth action we have taken: reducing the VAT rate for fuel to 8%. At the end of December, we reduced the price of petrol by about 30 gr. Now from 1 February we predict that this price will fall to approx. 5 PLN per 1 l. The solution also until July this year. Sixth action: extension of the 5% VAT reduction For electricity. It's about 60% today. the electricity price corresponds to the emission charge, the famous ETS, to which I would like to return in the final part. And here we could also say: the European Union, the ETS. Reduced VAT rate 5% electricity, thus reducing the electricity bills of every citizen. We also extend this instrument until the end of July this year. Another, seventh instrument, especially for farmers, but also as a result for every citizen: Polish food producers will have a zero rate of VAT on fertilisers. Thanks to these solutions under the anti-inflationary shield 2.0, and thanks to all the solutions adopted and introduced last December under the first shield in Polish wallets will be about PLN 25 billion. Finally, the cover supplement, which has been in operation for more than a week, means those measures which will go directly into the pockets of Polish citizens. Let me remind you that this is a supplement from 400 PLN to more than 1400 PLN, depending on the income threshold and the source of heating, energy sources in our homes. This supplement is already used by Poles, it affects a lot of conclusions, it is very popular. Here, too, an appeal to municipalities to serve citizens effectively, to prepare additional boxes to accept applications, and to speed up the process of processing, not using excessively complicated administrative procedures, only this simple proposal, which is an annex to the law. All these solutions have enabled us to respond to the current situation, which is absolutely not related to the actions and policies of our government. There is also an argument that we have such energy prices, such gas prices, because we are not transforming. Of course, it is false, because as we look at the Germans who have 43%. RES in the energy mix, that's where prices are even higher. However, it is absolutely false, it is a lie that we do not take transformational action. Recent years have been record-breaking in terms of pace, quantity, but also the quality of investments towards transformation, towards a mix of energy and renewable energy sources. I will only mention a few actions that are undoubtedly our success. For 2020 we had a target of 15% RES . In this room, too, there were doubts about whether it would work. We did it, we reached more than 16% by 2020. [[Because the methodology's changed.]] These percentages are growing every day, also thanks to the high acceptance of renewable energy sources in our society and large-scale involvement of citizens, among others. in photovoltaics. Today we have 7 GW from land wind power, we have 7 GW from prosumers, from photovoltaics. The remaining quantity is biogas and biomass. All these indicators are growing every day. Back to photovoltaics, because the Member also asked that question, I would like to say that there were actually 4 000 in December 2015. Prosumers, and today we have over 800,000. Prosumers. Let me remind you that this objective in energy policy was 1 million by 2023. This will be achieved in a moment, thus exceeding expectations and plans in energy policy. Between 2021 and 2024 investment plans of only the three largest energy companies are PLN 68 billion, of which investments in renewable energy sources are almost PLN 15 billion. I'm just gonna mention offshore here for a little while. Today, I just had a meeting with the Lithuanian Minister for Energy. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia today learn from us how to build offshore, are at the stage of preparing regulation, research on the seabed. Our farms are already at the final stage of environmental building permits decisions. First production - 2026 At the same time, we have prepared 11 new locations, which will soon be transferred to investors, so that by 2030 almost 6 GW is produced from offshore and by 2040 - almost 11 GW. At the same time, we are well equipped with those funds that we have from the proceeds of the auction from the sale of CO2 allowances. We finance greenhouse gas reduction, renewable energy development, combating deforestation, CO2 absorption through forests, environmentally safe capture and geological storage of CO2, creating solutions that encourage public transport measures based on renewable energy sources and many other solutions such as thermomodernisation that affect this transformation at the level of individual households. Several major programmes, which are financed under these measures, are PLN 13 billion from NFOŚ own resources for priority programmes, EUR 10 billion for thermomodernisation relief, EUR 5 billion for clean air, PLN 4.6 billion for the Fund for the Payment of Differences Prices, which among others. In 2019 it allowed to maintain prices at the same level, almost 3 billion for the Mid-Emission Cost Compensation Fund and support for energy-intensive sectors, and finally 0.5 billion compensation for municipalities that could potentially lose their income as a result of these activities related to wind power plants on land. In addition, I will also remind you of almost PLN 60 billion of the operational programme of infrastructure and the environment, with the simultaneous allocation of foreign funds of PLN 30 billion. This remaining amount is the national contribution to the transformations complementing the European contribution. Finally, large flagship investments, which were also financed with these funds: construction, expansion of LNG terminal in Świnoujście - 1,4 billion PLN (The Bell), a high-pressure gas pipeline - almost 4 billion, energy networks - more than 2 billion from emission funds. Please indicate to me another European country which, when starting from the level from which Poland starts, has done so much, with such efficiency, in such a short time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the Members of the debate have come forward, but there are so many that in order to meet the rule of law, I have reduced the time for the question to be asked to 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mrs Terlecki, I would advise you to take this into account because, as I see it, I will be chaired by Marshal Terlecki and he may be even more rigorous when it comes to sticking to the rules. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Kryj is the first to ask the question. You're welcome. [[One and a half minutes.]] [[Let's move on to the questions so we don't prolong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Electricity prices are rising both in Poland and in the world. This is influenced, among other things. The increase in CO2 emission allowance prices and more broadly the European Union's climate policy. The prices of CO2 allowances have recently increased dramatically. In 2014, the price was less than EUR 8 per tonne to reach EUR 90 today. The increase in the price of allowances is largely the result of speculative activities. Climate targets, for some very ambitious, for others extremely irresponsible, already in 2014, meant that electricity could increase by 80%. Returning from the 2014 European Council climate summit, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz assured that it was a great success and energy prices in Poland after 2019 will not increase. However, it met with criticism of some specialists, and one of the web portals wrote about the climate summit of Eve Kopacz. I have a question: Didn't Mrs. Ewa Kopacz know what she was talking about or knowingly lying to Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u107	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A deliberate false narrative is to cover your incompetence and lack of anti-inflationary action in due course. What the Minister was talking about should have been taken much earlier. But you have to have a true diagnosis, not a false diagnosis, and you have to adopt the right solutions in due course. False is already in the title of information, but also in the content presented by the applicant, because it suggests that this inflation, huge, is the sole responsibility of international organisations, the situation on the international market of energy and gas. In the meantime, it is obvious to everyone that inflation is influenced by internal factors, sometimes huge influence, because they are e.g. failure or lack of action at the appropriate time. Without such a realistic and reliable assessment of the situation, the effectiveness of the solutions adopted cannot be mentioned. Let me just mention, please, that, according to the OECD, inflation of gas, energy and fuel in Poland in December last year was 7, the lowest growth in the European Union (the Bell), and total inflation in Poland was 3, the highest growth in the European Union. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, how is this possible? If we have one of the lower energy price increases according to the EU methodology, why is this inflation highest? You're always explaining like a bad ballerina behind tight shoes. Buy yourself a normal size so you don't get hurt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u109	The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Answer me the question of how entrepreneurs should function in the financial disaster that affected them. Namely, today I received information from Bydgoszcz from two companies who received gas bills. Two companies with a similar business profile, the same gas supplier, the same tariff and very similar consumption. Companies adjacent to each other, having gas heating. One of them received an invoice for gas per sales unit of PLN 127 and the other over PLN 720. Seven times the difference in operating costs for companies trading the same goods. For some it will mean bankruptcy. The owner of the second turned to me with tears in his eyes asking if he would therefore receive an invoice adjustment and would have to pay for heating almost 8 thousand. £1 in a month. Dear Minister, I ask you kindly to answer (the bell) on the question of how such things will be handled. How do you imagine that? I'm gonna ask for an answer here, today, and I'm gonna ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u111	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u112	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The more you brag about it, the worse people get. Right now, this is all you have left to brag about. On the other hand, if we look at the cost that we have in the country, it is a drama for many families, for many people. Where does this come from? You've been living like a doughnut in butter for six years. After your predecessors, you had it all nicely, beautifully organized and you had a good life. [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]] You could've told stories about the prosperity you've created. But when difficult times have come, and you have to hurry, you have to have some knowledge of how to do it, you can't do it anymore. New Polish Load - you can't do it. You wanted to do something, but you can't do it. Yesterday, someone said well that you'd miss those gas prices, because you can't do anything, you're gonna go ahead. Like today, everyone misses the price of the gas that was before. You blamed it on your predecessors (the bell), on Pawlak, that he signed a bad deal. So what? Right now... [[It's true.]] So what? We miss you, let's go back to the price that was, and let's not repeat, Mr. Stupid. [[Voice from the room: Always with Gazprom.]] Here you are, sir. Tell me from that bleacher that price was wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You let Nord Stream 2.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, sir. Can we now allow the question to be asked? There you go. [[It's quiet, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u114	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When propaganda ends, there is silence on the side of Law and Justice, but it is no wonder that this debate is purely propaganda, and it is surprising that the government was wasting time preparing this propaganda, which it should have spent on preparing further solutions that protect Poles from inflation and expensive. I'm gonna start with the ETS because it's coming up. The PiS government is known for liking to blame others, looking for the guilty ones away from each other. Today he is trying to blame the European Union, but the truth is that it is the government of the PiS - not somebody else, the government of the PiS - that has erased about 25 billion PLN just for these rights and that money has disappeared somewhere. Minister! Where's the money, about $25 billion for these rights? [[But the Minister told me.]] Where is the 6 billion PLN that PGNiG received from the Russians as a result of the price increase arbitration? That money's gone, too. Where are they? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does it end? Hundreds of news from residents, entrepreneurs in Podbeskidzie, Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyn, on the land of Pszczyńska, who ask for rescue, to help them, because the prices will kill them. I ask: When will the government finally take care of real help and end propaganda? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u115	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I continue with my predecessor's statement: indeed, one of the factors affecting the price of gas and energy is the ETS. Some people are already talking about green inflation. Let me remind you, the ETS was created to create conditions for decarbonisation of industry and consequently reduce greenhouse gas emissions. What do we got? The current shape, price-raising of carbon emission allowances is one of the most important problems in the heating and energy sectors. On the contrary, current price speculation does not help to fulfil the original intentions. The money being paid is a very heavy burden for companies in the energy, heating, industry and aviation sectors. For each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted, companies must waive one carbon emission allowance. The purchase costs of these allowances translate into prices, among others. the heat that reaches the inhabitants. And my question. How is it with carbon dioxide certificates in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do all the funds that Polish companies have to spend to produce heat and electricity go to the state budget or not? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u117	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u118	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister! It's a simple question. Please tell the Poles what the price of gas will be and how much they will gain when you start a gas hub in Poland. I want the Baltic Pipe pipeline back by the end of this year. The President announces that the gas hub will be set up in Poland, i.e. the trade centre and the transmission centre. How much will Poles benefit from this activity? How much will the price of gas go down? You're bragging about what we're doing here. Please tell the High House, which countries of Europe made last year's decisions and what decisions protecting their citizens. We're at least six months late in this kind of thing. [[Applause]] There was no movement on your part. Only President Donald Tusk shows you these human tragedies. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] He says you're not doing anything. [[Applause]] I want you guys to get to work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's showing you and he's putting you up with billings... [[Yes...]] ...passing the Civic Coalition Club. What are you guys You left Poles with 700 percent increase in gas prices. That's the way it is with bakers. That's the way it is with bakers. What have you got for them today? A raise. [[What do you suggest?]] [[Voice from the hall: You're in the government.]] [[Voice from the hall: You have no shame?]] Are you talking about Vata? What did VAT do to them? Today, get to work and try to change this Polish reality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u119	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This was mentioned by the Minister, and it is also in the government project: the announcement of lowering the VAT rate to 0% for the production of artificial fertilisers. Fertilizers have been drained drastically, e.g. ammonium nitrate over 300%. I wanted to ask if this is the only aid directed when it comes to reducing the price of fertilisers, because I heard Minister Kowalczyk say that the government is also considering subsidies for the purchase of fertilisers. If so, at what stage is the preparation of this project? The second point concerns the "My current' programme. During the recruitment process, which was done to this day, first of all, the rules have been changed. First, there was a $5,000 grant. for home photovoltaic installations, then reduced to 3 000. and to this day, as far as the applicants are concerned, these applications are not considered and there is no decision. What's it gonna be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the following years, with regard to the implementation of the programme, my current of the next edition, and how much funding will possibly be available for those who decide to participate in this programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u121	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski. But I don't see him in the O.R. So, Mr Michał Grammar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The European Union's energy policy has been and is predictable. When Poland joined the European Community, it was already known in what direction She's gonna roll. First, the Polish energy policy government did not have at all for four years, you acted blindly, from band to band, and the one you adopted last year is already out of date. Today we are with a 70%, 80% share of black energy in the mix at the first honorable place, probably until 2030. The average EU black energy in the mix is 15%. In 2016, you completely shut down the windmills, which means you've made wind power building in our country no longer pay. You built Ostrolek C block, you started building it, you're taking it apart today. Bullshit about the atom - after Mr. President Duda's conversation (the bell) with Donald Trump also without further ado. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[It's not a change for the better, it's a change for the worse.]] Depends on who.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Civic Platform, full of hypocrisy, is attacking the government for fighting the crisis that they have caused, among others. politicians of the Civic Platform. Where were you when Donald Tusk stopped the construction of Baltic Pipe? Where were you when Donald Tusk was delaying the construction of the gasport? Where were you when in 2010 he increased his dependence on expensive Russian gas by 2 billion m3? Where were you when Donald Tusk cut off Gazprom 1 billion PLN? Where were you when the EU emissions trading system was reformed in 2014? Today, since Donald Tusk's time, it has increased by 1300% in terms of CO2 emissions. 60% electricity prices are the Union paratax. Today you criticize us, and how did you behave on December 9, 2021? You did not support the government of the Republic of Poland, who is fighting against the EU Eurocrats for lower energy and heat prices. You voted in favour of the EU ETS. [[Watch out, you're gonna suffocate.]] You voted for raises, you voted for high energy prices. And you're attacking us today? You have no shame. 1825 days (the bell) Donald Tusk was the head of the European Council... Mr Paweł Pontilius, Civic Coalition. What did he do about it? Nord Stream 2? He didn't do anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u125	The reason for the high energy prices is that the Prime Minister of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, because he agreed to Fit for 55. He agreed a year earlier on the 40% reduction target and failed to do so. at least one free additional CO2 emission certificate. You went to Brussels like calves and accepted every rule that was placed there on the table. Because your representatives don't understand anything. Maybe they understand English, but they don't understand the whole ETS system. Second, I'm asking someone to count me from where your 60% energy prices through the ETS. Because if we multiply as much as 90 euros by 4 zlotys with pennies and compare that today the price on the energy market is 1,200 per MWh, that's 30%, but not 60%. So I don't know what kind of bell your calculators are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u126	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. [[Paul, you were at the PiS, you were telling the truth, you're on the Platform and you're lying.]] Mr... [[I'm always telling the truth.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question may not be directly to the Minister, to the Prime Minister. A person on a single-person farm or a family in a multi-person, for example, in a single person, who has 1800 zł of income, after paying for energy, for gas, for apartments which he has to choose: whether to buy drugs or basic food products? Because she has to make that choice, something in part she won't be able to buy. Please provide some solutions to this problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u128	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, all actions that reduce the impact of inflation on citizens, but also for companies, are important - also for agricultural holdings. For example, it's about the price of fertilizer. It's just that it's 8%. This VAT thing, it's not much, really. And net prices are at least 3,000 at the moment. zł, and it's too much packaging. On the other hand, I would like to return to what Mr Kowalski said here. After all, on 28 February 2018 Poland did not vote against the new system, the new ETS Directive from 2021 to 2030, but abstained from the vote in solidarity with Hungary and Croatia. So we took note that this system was going to work this way. As regards the issue of MSR, the market stability reserve, which has already entered since 2019, in the Council of the European Union in 2015, i.e. before the elections (the bell), Poland voted against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u130	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Messengers of Law and Justice! Stop acting like the kindergartener who spilled the milk and is trying to blame his friend today... [[That's how you act.]] ...and start in a constructive and strategic way to solve problems of Poles and Poles, because that is what they expect of you. [[Then talk to yourself.]] In strategic changes, you should reduce the deficit, and you keep spinning it, only over the budget. After all, these inflation shields should be financed from inflation tax and are from debt. You should strengthen the gold, and the central bank will continue to buy this debt, weakening our currency. You could have secured ETS certificates, you could have secured gas prices. You didn't do it. Start really constructively solving our problems, or you will release Poles and Poles with bags. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u132	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Due to the increase in gas demand both in Europe and in Asia, as well as the significant reduction in the supply of this raw material, mainly from Russia, gas prices on global exchanges have reached an unprecedented level. The government, noting the threat of a sudden rise in household charges and also in vulnerable end-users, has prepared and implemented, as we know, the Law on Coverage, while working on other solutions to neutralise the rapid rise in energy prices, for which I would like to warmly thank. But I would also like to ask whether it is now possible to determine the economic and social consequences of this crisis, whether it is possible to set a deadline for ending it and whether this bad trend can persist over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u134	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna give my vote to the entrepreneurs today because you don't listen to them, Minister, because they're the ones you charge with the drastic increases in energy and gas prices. It is important that this voice sounds because of the role they play in the Polish economy. Listen to me. The Pandemic has reduced our turnover. We're having a hard time covering current costs right now. Increases in electricity and gas do not allow us to function - says the owner of the restaurant in Pszczyna. A representative of a family business employing 150 people says: The gas supplier is PGNiG. Since January we received a price higher by 700%. This is an increase of 3 million per year. This is our drama. How to live, Prime Minister Morawiecki? I've been running a bar for 10 years, and the pandemic situation has caused a drop in turnover and income. Tenfold increases in gas prices make running this type of activity like extreme sport - says the owner of the bar. There are thousands of situations like this. I ask, Minister: What do you have for entrepreneurs who build this economy? What do you want to do for them? [[Applause]] [[Billions of gold on the show.]] [[And the VAT reduction? Isn't that for entrepreneurs?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u136	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u137	High Izbo! It is right today that we are correcting earlier government omissions because it was a lack of imagination. The beneficiary of the bill will be Polish and Polish people and important social institutions. But I would like to ask about Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry on this occasion. It is almost a monopoly on the Polish gas market, a company of the Treasury. In the turmoil on the world markets, stock valuation increased by several billion. In the case of this law, the beneficiary will also be, and must be, PGNiG. He's gonna have about 20 billion compensations, loan guarantees, because the company's daughter's Retail Trading is gonna be on the downside. I have a question: Will PGNiG, as far as the energy policy of the state is concerned, carry out investments, gasification, diesel bus and gas networks? Will the agreements already concluded be implemented? Please respond in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u138	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will begin this speech with words that we probably all know: Give us today our daily bread. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the bill from the baker who got 700%. More. [[Is that the same one you showed yesterday? Is that the same guy?]] 700% , ladies and gentlemen. To make things interesting, from November to today by 80% The price of the flour he buys increased. What choice does he have? 100% More expensive bread. The question is, who's gonna buy it? Second option: he can close his business after 104 years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an appeal. We can't leave these people behind because we're about to be stuck with industrial buns and industrial bread, and we want these bakeries to stay. [[And we don't leave them.]] That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is from PGNiG. The question is, what is this man supposed to do? That's why I appeal. Thank you for what you've offered, but we can't leave these people either. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u140	Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2014, Mr Donald Tusk is appointed President of the European Council and from that moment begins to develop and then implement the zero greenhouse gas emissions plan, a plan that stifles the Polish economy and causes costs in Poland. When the pandemic broke out in 2021, Donald Tusk returned to national policy. As a result, indicators are growing, but indicators are rising in energy, gas and food prices. In order to protect Poles, Parliament adopts a resolution, a resolution on suspension of trade in CO2 allowances, but the Left is against, PO Against, PSL against, Poland 2050 against. These are the politicians who want it to be expensive in Poland to have high inflation. And remember that, Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u142	Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The problem with PiS is that they create these parallel worlds in their heads. They tell on PiS TV and begin to believe that this is the real world. Therefore, you all easily repeat the lie of Morawiecki, that the price of energy and gas in Poland corresponds to the price of energy and gas. What's the truth? Base inflation, i.e. without energy, gas and fuel prices, has grown three times faster in Poland over the last two years than in the euro area. This means that goods and services in Poland have been used by 11% over these 2 years and in the euro area - less than 3%. Those are the facts. Gas and energy had nothing to do with it. The reasons for the cost in Poland are your inability, which led to collapse in investments, is spending hundreds of billions outside the budget, it is a few dozen new taxes, it is a lack of energy transformation. [[What are you talking about?]] And you, instead of collecting money from the Union, block the National Plan for Reconstruction and introduce the Polish Load (Dawn) which flushed out investors. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[We're blocking?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u144	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u145	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The second day in the Polish Sejm we are talking about what is so important for Poles, what is very important at this moment, what is most important, i.e. that it is expensive, among others. in the shops, but also everywhere, in the gas stations, in the bills that you're so eager to hand over here. But we're not just talking about law and justice. Today this debate is also at the request of the Law and Justice, but it is the Law and Justice and the Government that present concrete solutions, specific programmes, specific laws. And so: zero VAT rate on food, gas, fertilisers, VAT reduction to 5% on electricity and heat, reduction from 23% to 8% on fuel. In addition, it is about compensation for customers of gaseous fuels in households which are housing communities, in healthcare providers, in social assistance agencies, in accommodation units, in family support units (Bells), in educational entities. We're putting in concrete solutions, and you're just screaming. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u146	Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The minister ended her speech and said, "Show me who did so much." Minister, you have actually done a lot to make Poles pay more for gas, you have done a lot to impose draconian increases on Polish entrepreneurs, and you have done a lot to make Poles just live worse. Yeah, that's true. It's time to take responsibility for six years of incompetent government. But there is one basic question in this case. Why does the state, why does the PGNiG ruled by the subsequent Bear and Pisieczy not want to disclose the information on what basis it calculates these increases? Is it true that by draining Poles' pockets, you save the failing PGNiG? Is it true that you rob Poles of money only to finance projects such as the purchase of Poland Press? Just don't steal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remember those words... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u148	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u149	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Between 2008 and 2012, prices increased at a rate of 4 and 5%. per year. And what were you doing then? You've raised VAT, you've raised VAT on vegetables, fruits, fish, flour, grits, you've eliminated the internet discount... [[That's not true.]] ...for the specialist press. And what else did you suggest? The introduction of the euro in 2011 which, as you know, raises prices everywhere, as our neighbouring countries have experienced. That was your anti-inflationary shield. At the moment the government is taking very rapid action and thanks to this, these two anti-inflationary shields Poles will save PLN 24 billion thanks to these actions of the government. Indeed, the causes are external in the case of 80% the same inflation. You know this very well, because you have chosen allegiance to the interests of Berlin and Moscow for a full salary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why you agreed to all the terms. Mr. Marshal! The lack of help from companies is rather thanks to you... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u150	Madam, you're done. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u151	What PiS has to say to Mrs Iren from Dąbrowa, a lonely person who has 1 000 from KRUS. A month's worth of zloty? This winter, had it not been for neighbors' vigilance and the help of the local OPS, she would have died of starvation, because she could not afford even a ton of coal, that of PLN 1500. 1/4 of households, the poorest ones, these rural ones, use coal and will continue to use it. What do you have to say to the citizens, the beneficiaries of the Clean Air programme, who are now saying to each other: but we were stupid? For hundreds of thousands of Poles, your winter rule 2021/2022 will be associated with great coldness. I hope only this one winter and this one year. What do you say to the woodworking industry? A year ago the price of the cubic meter was 290 PLN, now - 860 PLN. Coal, state mines - ruled by the PiS. Gas, state PGNiG - ruled by the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Forests - ruled by Solidarna Polska holding the mouth of PiS. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u152	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u153	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that the causes of inflation are external factors. You're lying to your constituents. A little more decency. The government of the United Right doesn't hide its head in the sand, came up against - anti-inflationary shield 2.0. [[Mrs. Iren.]] There are various protective measures for Polish families, Polish entrepreneurs, especially those who are struggling with problems. Let's use the truth. Let's tell the truth and just the truth. This is a difficult situation where we have to face it together. Dear Minister, I have a question: Can we expect the European Commission's reaction to Gazprom's monopolistic (Ring) practice in the near future, or must we count on ourselves again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u154	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have a problem with this discrepancy, because I have just returned from the European Union committee and there the Minister said that we are working in the European Union to accept many climate policy solutions, and we agree on a lot, for example. to introduce CO2 emissions in aviation as well. Imagine the narrative in this room. When it comes down in this courtroom that air traffic has been introduced and ticket prices have been raised, what will the government say? Of course he'll say whose fault is it? It's Tusk's fault. That's the situation. It's completely schizophrenic. The discrepancy between your work in the European Union and what you are saying here is enormous. The second question concerns security in PGNiG. Did PGNiG (The Bell) secure contracts with Gazprom to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u156	Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there has been a lot of false information in this room. You're talking about longing for solutions from the days of PO and PSL. Let me remind you: the end of 2015, the end of your governments is a time of enormous debt of the two largest mining companies in Silesia, i.e. the Company of Coal and Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Despite the announcements, you failed to implement the social agreements signed by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. Despite the announcements, you failed to restructure the largest sector. Today we see the consequences. I'm talking about this because this is the kind of phrase you've been saying in this room. Let Mr Donald Tusk actually do something good for Poland for once and together with Mr Timmermans and the Commission's chief of staff will free from speculation the greatest costs associated with energy production. You cannot see reductions in taxes, excise duties and VAT on food, fuel, fertilisers, gas and energy. [[You've been in charge for six years.]] Minister! How much money will remain in Polish households' wallets, especially the poorest ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u158	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Where are you? I don't see Mr. Kowalski anymore. €40 billion is waiting to be used for energy transformation, under the NRPs and the multi-annual financial framework in various programmes. 80 billion from the Fair Transformation Fund is to be used by 2030. A total of 584 billion European funds to be used by 2030 are at hand. You hide behind another shield like a proverbial knight, and you have to go to your senses and start to transform, using European resources, including ETS funds. This is a challenge for you and Poland. Return to the way of the rule of law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Around the world 37 billion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u160	Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u161	For the PiS government, green energy is salt in the eye. You are blocking RES-related investments, although wind energy is currently the cheapest on the Polish market. What's the PiS doing? It brings coal from Russia, blocks investments related to RES, blocks the possibility of building new wind farms and hits photovoltaics, changing the rules of use, while the prices of fuels, gas and electricity are rising terrendically. This is the extreme irresponsibleness for which Poles pay - they pay gas and electricity bills - entrepreneurs, local governments, hospitals, children's homes, social services. Gas bills are 300, 500 or 700% higher. Energy transformation should be carried out with ETS money. It's about PLN 60 billion. Where are they? The government has given us six years of RES devastation and has not invested any money in transmission networks or energy storage. Citizen! Citizen! You're paying a horrendously high bill for gas and electricity? Ask what the government is doing with billions of CO2 emissions why the government is blocking the development of renewable energy and at what stage are the work (the Bell) on repealing the 10H rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u162	Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I listened to the discussion and unfortunately did not hear any real and constructive proposal from the opposition. According to the opposition, how should we deal with the current rise in gas prices? We have not heard from the opposition what can be done except what the government is already doing today. [[We only have one minute to ask.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think we're gonna hear anything anymore. The government has done everything that can now be done. The lack of specifics on the part of the opposition results, among others. the fact that, in addition to Russia's aggressive policy, the European Union's climate policy, supported willingly and created by the European People's Party, together with its President Donald Tusk, has also led to the current situation. I would therefore like to ask the opposition whether it intends to support government action in Brussels in the fight against speculative trade in CO2 emissions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u164	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, please do not discuss this in the Chamber. [[You asked for an example, you got it.]] [[Voice from the room: Action simply.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u165	Minister! High Izbo! Yoga in stores, higher electricity bills, giant gas bills and lower wages on payroll. You announced Polish Loads, and PiS-Polish mess came out of it. I wonder if you guys are in contact with reality at all. Do you even know what's going on in Poland? [[And I wonder if you know where we are.]] I invite you to come to Szczecin. I'll take you to Mr. Andrzej, the owner of one of the oldest bakeries in town. So far, he's been paying gas bills of 5,500. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know how much he's paying now? Thirty-five thousand. zł. That's a 550% raise. It's a scandal, isn't it? [[But it's already been done.]] You're saying everyone's guilty of this, not the PiS government. Madam, please don't disturb me. Tusk, the European Union, climate policy are to blame, but not you. [[We say what to do.]] The seventh year of your reign begins. So much for diversification of gas supplies. You haven't developed a gasport in seven years. What did you do? You gave the gasport the name Lech Kaczyński. These are your effects. Come on, guys. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[And what did you do?]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe with Sienkiewicz yesterday...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u166	Member Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What the opposition is doing today is political cynicism and bastardry. [[Applause]] When there was a crisis and inflation, Prime Minister Tusk was looking for a button, but that he didn't find it, and the Poles simply had to cope on their own. Besides, today's Platform has no better prescription for inflation. Attention, these are free courts. Members of the opposition are playing jokes today and telling us, this is a quote: the government of PiS lived like doughnuts in butter from predecessors, when Poles heard from Platform and PSL only one: there is no money and there will be no money. Ladies and gentlemen, actions, not words. We protect Polish families. Examples: VAT reduction for gas to 0%. VAT reduction on heat and electricity - up to 5%. For food - 0%. An appeal to the opposition: stop lying, because we can find it. The government of law and justice can find money. The Prime Minister does not ask how Donald Tusk, where the money is buried (the bell), because we know that the most important thing is for Poles to live better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u168	Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a huge chance for EU money, for energy efficiency or for electricity networks to be improved. The game is also about funds for the transformation of mining regions. EU funds are also grants directly to citizens. Today, there is no alternative to measures that Poland can obtain from the European recovery plan and the new EU budget. You need money for investments that aren't there. There is no and there will be no, because the lack of rule of law this government defends like Czestochowa to have only a poor majority in the Seym. There isn't, and there won't be, because we're going to be punished for the Turs and the Disciplinary Chamber. He doesn't, and he won't, as long as he rules incompetence. Prime Minister! When will you take action to restore the rule of law to mobilise EU funds? It will be you and your government who will lose those resources. The Member who spoke before me spoke about free courts. Is the Member against independent courts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's them... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u170	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the opposition says that the government doesn't do well, that it doesn't care about the citizens, doesn't care about the bakery, doesn't care about the residents, it doesn't surprise me, because I'm here, I listen... [[Because he's not.]] But don't disturb me. But the fact that inflation, which is a high level of inflation, is the government's inability to... Germany has not been so high in inflation since 1992. Are you questioning management in Germany? Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, among others. support where inflation, which you think is just the government's fault... Not external companies, not Gazprom and its prices, not the European Union's climate policy, not coming out of a pandemic that has embraced the whole world, but the rule of law and justice. Minister! I have a question (the bell) whether actions include: shielding for Polish families... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u172	Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the Polish Ład, the citizen will become a grandfather - that is what people say not only on the streets of Gdynia, [[Applause]] Aware that the cost is not only due to the external circumstances that are taking place but also to the policy pursued by the PiS since 2015. I am referring here, for example, to the omission in the area of building the country's resilience to crises. That's what happens in a high economic situation. You had the opportunity, while the next budgets were and are subject to the current policy objectives of the PiS. You are responsible for Adam Glapiński, for the fact that we do not have funds from the Reconstruction Fund, for the terrible management of energy companies, for the greed and demoralization of the Treasury companies resulting in a huge waste of resources... [[Are you talking about your authority? When you guys were...]] ...for strategic mistakes such as the waste of 2 billion in Ostrołęka or the transfer of money from the energy sector to the mine (the bell) at a time when... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u174	Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. [[That's what you were talking about?]] Madame, take it easy. [[Voice from the courtroom: The Marshal will be gracious to silence.]] [[Relanium. Mint a little drink.]] [[The voice from the hall: Take it, you're right, you should take it.]] Mrs Catherine Czochar. There isn't. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the piss bench, there's still an attack on the European Commission. Then I will ask: Who supported the head of the Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen? The PiS government. Mr. Marshal spoke very well at the time. You supported her. You are attacking those who operate in the European Commission. Who is the PiS Commissioner in the European Union? Who's the commissioner? Mr. Wojciechowski, your man. What's he doing? Nothing, then. He makes giant money, he doesn't do anything. We need to act and we need to be effective. I wanted to ask, first of all, all those who at this moment in each month are terrified of the increase in the rate of credit. Because this is an absolute drama right now for hundreds of thousands of especially young Poles who believe that Poland will live better, and in the last 3 months as a result of economic illiteracy performed by NBP we have an absolute disaster. This is the installment higher by several hundred zlotys each month (the bell) plus rents that increase. These people need help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u176	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Tell that to the franchise.]] [[I mean, the economy is regulated.]] Who's yelling like that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Jazgot.]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you screaming about, ladies and gentlemen?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many words have been said here about food prices. In energy, which is included in the price of food - and in human food you need an equivalent value of over 600 l of diesel, so much energy per year - 31% is transport. In your day, local processing was terminated. This allows transport to absorb enormous amounts of energy. It should also be noted that these causes go even further. Turning to gas, about the time when the agreement on accession was being negotiated, you failed to take care of the gas market. Then you had to build terminals (the bell), gas pipelines and take care of the right direction of transmission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u178	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! Today we are talking about the situation of inflation and the threat of business activity. On the side of the PiS we hear all the time that PiS has done everything he can, and it is a fantastic proposition for Poles, but no one on your side today has said that when it comes to VAT, it is only 6 months. And then what? The expected effects of increases are above all - regardless of what we say - a sharp rise in prices for bread, fertilisers, but also services. Please note: laundry prices are rising seven times. How much will it cost to stay in the hotel, etc.? What about after six months? Do you realize that bakers and others will have to pay an increase in the amount already (the bell) in January, because VAT - from February? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u180	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Government activities in the field of active support of Polish families in difficult times of pandemics are particularly measurable due to the introduction of an anti-inflationary shield and tax reduction. According to independent experts, government anti-inflationary shield 1.0 should reduce the inflation by 1,5%. The introduction of a second anti-inflationary shield should have similar effects. Although the causes of inflation are clearly external, the government as an imperative accepted the protection of the standard of living of Poles, Polish families. Hence in terms of energy we have zero VAT on gas, 5% VAT on energy, 5% VAT on heat, 8% VAT on fuel. I ask the Minister what role the Modernization Fund can play in this difficult period of energy modernisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u182	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. It's about a specific answer. What are the quota reserves for energy production in Poland from coal and gas? How much more do Polish state-owned companies make in production? There are huge reserves. 25% The gas comes from its own extraction. This is approx. 50 PLN per MWh. 25% is liquid gas imported from Qatar and the United States - approx. 115 PLN per MWh. Even if we take into account contracts with Gazprom - about PLN 230 per MWh - the weighted average for Polish gas is PLN 157.249 net. In circulation - PLN 798. Why do Polish companies make so much money? Explain that. Average price of purchased 1 t of coal - 130 zł. The right to issue previously acquired, even averaged, at the level of EUR 50. Weighted average - PLN 314 per MWh. In the market - over 900. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are those reserves? Answer me. Perhaps it is that Polish companies make money... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...on a crisis at the expense of the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u184	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u185	1.5 months ago I pointed out that the cumulative range of inflation - I am talking about the value of the price index of goods and services - is more than 18% under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, while in the case of the United Right, even taking into account this increase from the end of last year, it will be approx. 11,12%. There were nine without that tip. Your money has not been and will not be, while the PiS government has invested huge money for people, social, including entrepreneurs, within the framework of shields and protection. It started during the pandemic, but the most important, great impulse is the price of fuel and gas, especially electricity. I wanted to ask the Minister what it looks like, how in Poland this price is rising in relation to tariff prices (Dzinek), about 50% , compared to what is happening in the countries of the European Union, where there is an increase of 1000%. How does it translate... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u186	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the opposition, I would like to ask you: Why? Why did you vote against Polish families on 9 December, against Polish families' portfolios, voting against the Sejm's resolution on the suspension of the CO2 emissions trading system? It is a sick, harmful, dangerous system for Polish families and the Polish economy, which was agreed by Mr Donald Tusk, the biggest pest of the last thirty years in Poland. [[Applause]] You agreed because you blindly believed in him. That's why the polls and all your results in recent years are like this, not different. Minister! I wanted to ask if the solutions introduced by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's government (The Bell) also exist in other countries of the European Union when it comes to calculating the VAT rate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u188	Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For several months now, the economy, especially in the European countries, has been facing major increases in energy prices. This is greatly influenced by factors such as the emergence of national economies after the downtime caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, and then even disproportionately large to the potential of Polish CO emissions charges. Minister! In relation to the increase in gas and electricity (the bell) for our country, as well as for other countries in Europe, I have a question: What are the solutions of the government's anti-inflationary shield against rising electricity and gas prices against the background of solutions... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A little chronology. In 2020, as a result of the COVID, the European economy and the whole of the world strongly slowed down, while as a result of various crisis shields, both in the European and Asian countries, it started in 2021. This resulted in increased demand for gas and, in particular, increased demand for gas in the absorbent Asian market. This led to a large proportion of gas ships going to Asian ports rather than European ports. In response to this Gazprom screwed up the cock, all of this still had speculation about the ETS and we have empty warehouses in Europe. Minister! What is Poland's gas situation in relation to European countries in terms of gas reserves and prospects for managing these reserves? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u192	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind the opposition that from 1988 to 2005 Poland has made a historic record reduction in CO2 emissions by 31.9%. At the same time, other European countries, instead of reducing emissions under the Kyoto Protocol, have significantly increased emissions, e.g. Spain By 48%, Portugal by 41%, Italy by 12%. We were the leader in this matter. And this is actually where I direct the question. In 2008, Mr Tusk's consent to move away from the Kyoto Protocol and to calculate CO2 emissions from 2005 and to throw away all this acquis, the entire work of a huge number of Poles led to this, [[The bell) that immediately we were in a worse position]] Thank you, Member. I would just like to ask: How did this evolve in the years to come? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u194	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Zubowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start from the end and ask: Where are you, Members of the opposition? Where's the platform? Where's PSL? Where are the Poles? Because you had so many questions, you wanted to discuss it. There is a minister, there are Members, and where are your colleagues? [[Applause]] [[PSL doesn't have one.]] You guys did a show, you went out on the stand, you said some stupid things, and you left. [[Game in the O.R.]] And that's what it's like to make a policy of yours. Just take a few pictures and leave. You're not interested in facts. [[Where are the Members of the PiS? How many more of you?]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me now refer to the few words that have come out here from this speaker. First of all, you're telling us that our shield is being introduced too late, that we need to react faster. Let me remind you of the 2007 crisis. Then you said Poland was a green island and so on. Do you have any idea how long the bill was in place to help entrepreneurs? After a year and a half, after 18 months. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And the Civic Platform is trying to tell us today that we, by introducing some solutions after a month or two, are doing it too late. We don't wait a year, we don't wait 18 months. Another thing: aid to entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, we've already given tens of millions of zlotys as part of our anti-crisis shields. We haven't waited 18 months like you. We abolish VAT, excise duty, retail taxes. All of this is done to reduce the prices of gas, electricity and petrol where possible, as I said earlier, sometimes, at times, risking us entering again into some kind of conflict with EU bodies. And in this meeting, we are adopting further solutions which, after all, are designed to help entrepreneurs and ordinary people. And we know what the bills are. That's why we're reacting. Ladies and gentlemen, we're doing this for people. For them, we introduce a cover tax, for them we lower taxes and social programs, raise pensions, introduce 13 pensions or free medicines. [[Fourteen, fifteen.]] I will also remind you: before 2015, ladies and gentlemen, a free drug program. After all, there was an idea made by law and justice. You voted against. The money wasn't supposed to be there, and it wasn't. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We've made it happen and we've made it happen. We lower taxes, VAT, you didn't make it, you offered sluts and mirabelles. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about the situation of Poland in the international arena. The Economist recently published a ranking showing that the Polish economy is one of the five or six that best dealt with the economic crisis. Why aren't you talking about it? Why don't you say it, and you don't notice that we have one of the lowest levels of unemployment in the European Union as a whole. If it hadn't been for the government, if it hadn't been for the cover-up, it wouldn't have been. [[The lowest increase in supply year by year.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is also one of the countries to which investors are most likely to come. Next topic: inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, after 5 years of government of the Civic Platform in the years 2008 to 2012, total inflation was 18.3% per year. Between 2016 and 2020, after 5 years of rule of law and justice - a total of 8,7%. Even if we add data to this for 2021, which will soon appear, it will still be lower in our time than in your day. Why aren't you talking about it? That is also what Mr Tomaszewski was talking about. [[Applause]] We were talking about a predictable energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen, you had no energy policy, no document. I've been a member of the Energy Commission for eight years. I know, because it was said that there was no document that would just regulate it. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also agreed to change the parameters from which the CO2 reduction rate was calculated. When we joined the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, some things were supposed to look different. Minister! I ask for information on how much Poland receives from the sale of CO2 allowances and how much, please, we need these funds. Why? Because the opposition is passionate about the amounts we're about to receive, and it doesn't tell us how much we need, right? Understand that if we get 100 zlotys, but we are to pay 150 zlotys for this, then we are not 100 zlotys forwards, we are 50 zlotys backwards. I don't think you're seeing this. The construction of a gasport in Świnoujście is... Mr Azievicz is not here, and I was still there with him in the seventh term, and we were looking at this construction. Ladies and gentlemen, the construction was started during the rule of law and justice, in our day. The fact is, in the meantime, Ewa Kopacz arrived during the campaign and took a picture of herself on the background of the gasport, but as it turned out later, we had to finish it. That's not enough, construction ended up with notices to the prosecutor's office filed by the Supreme Chamber of Control about the crimes that were to be committed there. I don't know how it ended because it's been a few years. As regards the management of State Treasury companies, I would like to remind you that only in our time was Orlen able to make a profit in a quarter more than during the entire reign of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] In a quarter more than eight years. And that's probably the best way to prove how these companies are managed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u196	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Anna Moscow. You're welcome, Minister. I'm very sorry, Minister, but there's been a mistake in the text I got. You, of course, are the Minister of Climate, not the Secretary of State. I'm very sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u197	It's a quick promotion. That's okay, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for all those questions. It's just a pity that I don't really have someone to answer them, so we're probably going to take a written form in part, because the answer to these questions seems important enough to correct some lies and irregularities and to correct them here, but also not repeat them in the media. A few sentences about the gas. This thread was manifested in the debate - with a slight sentiment and regret for the old times. Let me remind you that in 2015, dependence on Russian gas is 90%, while today it is 60%. The question is, where did the measures you are asking about in the gas sector go? These measures went to build our independence from Russia. These measures have gone into new contracts. I will remind you that once there was only Russia, today it is Norway, the United States, Qatar. This year we will complete the key investment of Baltic Pipe, LNG terminal and many other investments that lead us towards independence from Russia. It used to be unthinkable, but as I hear it, there are still people who miss these sometimes. What's going on with Gazprom today? Filling warehouses at 45%, at the same time for other suppliers to Europe, such as Algeria or Norway, for example, in November deliveries increased by 25% compared to the situation of the previous year. Gazprom - 45%. We are definitely talking about using the monopoly situation on the European market. The actions we have taken are an immediate response and a request to the European Commission to launch an antitrust procedure. The Commission has started, as usual in such situations, long studies, debates. From the analysis came again that it was a hot summer and a cold winter, and it is difficult to say that these practices in a clear, simple way were the exploitation of a monopoly position. Nevertheless, the Commission will bend over and deepen further analysis and work. We have delivered and continue to supply a great deal of materials, which clearly indicate that Russia uses its monopoly position and threatens energy security not only for Poland, but also for Europe as a whole. In December, I saw Commissioner Vestager and again I asked for very urgent action. Evidence is not lacking, we just need to take concrete steps. In the case of Polish companies, the Commission is not in trouble to carry out an on-the-spot check without notice. It is difficult to go to Gazprom's German headquarters instead of asking for documents that Gazprom will not send. You can make an on-the-spot check and speed up the reaction and evidence that's on the table. What more is needed? The price of gas is an absolute proof that these practices are monopolistic and harm the citizens of Poland and Europe. The price of gas in Poland - just for example - for the individual customer for today it is 200 PLN for 1 MWh. Italy - 290, Netherlands - 800. You also mentioned that Dutch entrepreneurs are fleeing to African countries, that is true. Czech Republic - from 354 to 405, there the fare is different. Energy prices. The average price in the G tariff for individual customers in Poland is 640 PLN for 1 MWh, the European Union average is 780 PLN, 173 EUR for 1 MWh. There is a lot of debate and a lot of opinions are coming up on the ETS. A lot of these opinions have to be corrected in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop saying that we are the beneficiary of this system. Poland is a strong net payer of the ETS. It was, is, and will be, a net payer in this system that is today saved unless a comprehensive reform of the ETS is carried out. Why? The whole ETS system is built like this: 30% of the ETS system are free certificates, absolutely insufficient for the needs of our economy and in the transformation situation in which we are in. 30% These are government auctions, and here are the famous ones given by the states 25 billion. As much as 30% are market purchases. Who is the beneficiary of these purchases? In the ETS, there is always less power to the state budget than our economy needs. So this system was shaped by our colleagues on the left side of the room. We always need more than we have powers. We repeat this, we submit requests, we inform you. The European Commission continues to carry out continuous analyses. In other words, the emissions of ETS installations located in Poland, i.e. the amount of allowances that Polish ETS installations have to account for, exceed the amount of allowances that installations receive for free, and the amount of allowances that are sold at auctions by Poland. This is due to the basic principle: about half of the ETS allowances go free to industrial installations, energy does not get them, and the other half is divided into auctions between Member States on the basis of so-called. historical emissions, i.e. emissions from industry and energy. What's causing this? This means that the beneficiary of this system is one who is less emission. So what Commissioner Timmermans is saying is that this system encourages the transformation of those who do not want to transform is a lie. This system is a system that supports those who, largely thanks to the European measures they have been allocated, are already behind them, who are in a completely different situation when it comes to energy, industry, than Poland. We're definitely losing on this system. A good example, I think, is the United Kingdom, which immediately after leaving the European Union introduced its own system based on very efficient control, where in relation to one to one allowance fee goes to investment purposes. We would like to introduce such a system in Poland. In our proposal for the reform of the ETS, we called on the committee during these long studies to take simple and rapid action to heal this system, so to withdraw the financial speculators from the system. We can imagine a situation in which a Polish entrepreneur learns one day that he has a tax of 5%, the next day he learns that the tax is 15% , the next day - that it is 30% - and that's up to 80%. That's how the ETS works. Today there was a golden thought here, which I wrote down. Mr Grammar said that the European Union's energy policy is predictable. Very interesting statement. That's a very interesting statement. I do not know whether the Member has foreseen that this amount of EUR 5 for the ETS allowances, which occurred at the beginning of December 2021, has grown to EUR 80. No Polish businessman was able to predict this, nor was any European businessman able to predict it. This system is uncontrollable, unpredictable, there are no security systems. Why? It is because financial institutions and those who do not participate in transformation in any way and do not take responsibility for transformation are to benefit from this system. I therefore appeal once again not to tell all these lies about what an extraordinary beneficiary we are of this wonderfully functioning system. The system does not work and we are not a beneficiary of it, we are definitely a net payer who does not receive allowances or receive sufficient resources to be allocated to the transformation. Let me give you a few examples of what the funds we are getting for. Let me remind you that the funds of the Fund to compensate for the indirect costs of emissions and the Fund for the Payment of Differences Prices do not go directly to the state budget, i.e. those 1.8 billion and 4.6 billion will not go to the budget. Everything else is devoted to the necessary investments. Let me remind you once again: PLN 4 billion in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, key priority programmes for transformation, of which most of the funds are intended for grants, part for feedback instruments, PLN 10 billion - thermomodernisation relief, the Clean Air Programme, contracts already for the amount of PLN 5 billion, my current is the amount of PLN 1 billion, the programme continued this year, as well as the Clean Air programme, and compensation for municipalities which, as a result of the legislation, lost income in the form of property tax - 0,5 billion PLN, own contribution to Poland for transformation projects, contribution of the Polish budget to the amount of PLN 60 billion, almost PLN 30 billion Polish contribution. We're putting it into this transformation. In the case of this fund, one-to-one-half is a Polish contribution to the transformation, we are contributing to European funds. The same measures: construction and expansion of an extremely important LNG terminal in Świnoujście, over PLN 1 billion (The Bell), a high-pressure pipeline - almost PLN 4 billion. Many times it rained here today, that we do not modernise Polish networks. Well, ladies and gentlemen, investments in the modernisation and expansion of Polish networks are record-breaking, over PLN 37 billion, of which PLN 2 billion comes from European funds. Poland treats expansion projects, storage as strategic projects. A few more sentences about the atom, because it definitely needs correction. For the first time, this project is realistic and is carried out on schedule. 2026 - beginning of construction, 2033 - first reactor, 2043 - last reactor. The first deadline we declared regarding the choice of location in the previous year was respected. This year we are going to choose a partner, and we are going to keep to that date. We will meet the next deadlines so that this independent energy source can serve Poles and contribute to lower energy prices. I will conclude this brief presentation with the same question I asked in the previous speech because I did not hear any reference. Show me the European state which responds equally comprehensively to the energy and gas market situation, in the long term, and so many instruments reaching such numbers of households and operators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For several days now government propaganda on the welfare of Poles after the introduced Polish Lady as well as anti-inflationary shields has increased. On government sites we can read, among others, that Polish Load carries with it a number of positive changes for millions of Poles. It is a historic tax reduction and as much as 17 billion PLN, which will remain in the pockets of citizens. New solutions are a real gain for pensioners and pensioners as well. And we will read about the shield that this is a large-scale government effort to stop price increases caused by external factors such as the global economic crisis following the COVID-19 pandemic, Russia's gas blackmail and the European Union's energy policy. All this rhetoric is based on a basic lie. Gas prices bankrupt the company by removing the fuses from the gas agreements with Russia, as you have sought. Electricity prices glide up through, among others. destruction of the RES Act and lack of investment in the energy sector. The Prime Minister calls for the price of goods to be reduced by VAT, while increasing the costs of the employer by several hundred percent. The NBP President presents forecasts of the maximum level of inflation that meet several months earlier and are only the beginning. Therefore, I would ask you to respond to the next steps you intend to put in place if the current solutions do not have any effect. Why did gas prices go up from where Poland intends to import gas after 2022? Are there negotiations with other countries? What action is NBP taking to counter inflation, what are the NBP's recommendations on government policy? Why are NBP inflation projections meeting faster?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u200	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Prints 1905 and 1914). I ask Mr Adam Gawada to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. At its 46th meeting on 12 January in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 12 January 2022, asks the High Sejm to accept this project, which is intended to reduce the tax on goods and services and which is envisaged to result in these changes. The main objective is to implement measures in the area of taxation aimed at countering the effects of inflation. Five amendments were tabled during the meeting, of which two were accepted and three did not receive approval from the committee. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of this draft law is proposed that the VAT rate for the period from 1 February 2022, i.e. this year, to 31 July this year. was 0% for food goods listed in items 1 to 18 of Annex 10 to the Act, other than those classified under the Polish Classification of Products and Services in the grouping of food-related services. The zero rate will not apply to imports of those goods sold at a distance of imported goods placed in consignments of an actual value not exceeding, expressed in zlotys, an amount corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 150. Accelerating the rise in energy prices and, as a result, food prices are also the most affected by the poorest part of society, i.e. pensioners, pensioners, the least earning and unemployed. The rise in food prices entails considerable economic and social costs for the general public, but is most felt by the poorest who spend the most on food in relation to monthly income. Next, according to this project, the VAT rate from 1 February to 31 July is to be 0%. for fertilisers and plant protection products, normally intended for use in agricultural production, gardening land and soil improvers, growth promoters and substrates, other than those listed in item 12 of Annex 3 to the Act. Due to the systematic and strong price increases observed over the past few months, which are directly translated into inflation, as well as the impact on food prices of the products used for food production, including fertilisers, plant protection products and other goods supporting agricultural production, it is justified to reduce the VAT rate for these goods to 0%. The VAT reduction will apply to goods used in agricultural production which are currently at an 8% rate, as I said, of fertilisers, plant protection products, gardening land, as well as products supporting agricultural production. The VAT rate for the same period will also be reduced for natural gas to 0% and for electricity and heat up to 5%. Over the same period, the VAT rate will be 8% for motor gasoline and products resulting from the mixing of these petrol with biocomponents, meeting the quality requirements laid down in separate regulations, diesel fuels, self-fuel biocomponents, meeting the quality requirements laid down in separate regulations, and carriers intended for the propulsion of internal combustion engines, natural gas, so-called. Wet and other gaseous hydrocarbons. Given that prices of products and services have a significant impact on fuel prices, it is justified, in view of the progressive increase in inflation, to reduce the VAT rate for such goods from 23% to the proposed level of 8%. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 draft law we plan to introduce the following solutions. It is envisaged that an obligation should be imposed at the register office of the company in which the sale of foodstuffs, motor fuels and goods used for agricultural production is made, clear information on the reduction of VAT rates for the goods for which this Act introduces a reduction in the VAT rates of that tax. Furthermore, it is envisaged that sellers of natural gas, electricity and heat should be required to provide the purchaser with information about reduced rates of tax on these goods. In view of the importance of the proposed changes, the planned date of entry into force was set at 1 February 2022. The solutions contained in the project are beneficial for the whole society and therefore their entry into force is justified as soon as possible without prejudice to the principles of the democratic rule of law. Furthermore, I would also like to stress here in the High House that the proposed legislation is covered by European Union law. This project is linked to a very difficult economic situation affecting society's living conditions in a negative way, hence the solutions contained therein, often non-standard, are of a temporary and exceptional nature. High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I am directing the project to the High House and asking for the bill to be adopted together with the solutions adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u202	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Costowniak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing an extremely important law, if we consider the time and place where the Polish, European, but also world economy is located. We are talking about changes in the act on the tax on goods and services, which were included in the print No. 1905. Ladies and gentlemen, this boils down, in the simplest way, to reducing the level of tax collection, tax rates on some of the most important goods in the world today being used by man. I am thinking directly of food that has so far been subject to a 5% rate. It will be subject to a zero rate, so we will not pay VAT on food for the next six months. For motor fuels, oils, biocomponents constituting self-fuels, please countries, this rate is also reduced from 23% to LPG. up to 8%. We're reducing this rate by 15%. . If we look back at our country, we must realise one thing: such a form of support and reduction of VAT in the history of our country has never been since its introduction. Farmers will receive very clear and concrete aid. I'm thinking fertilizers, plant protection products, growth stimulators, which we reduce the rate from 8% to zero. For natural gas we will apply the zero rate for electricity and heat at 5% in the next six months. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the scene of the Polish government's struggle with inflation. Unfortunately, it is not so everywhere, and it seems that it will be one of the elements of the spinning spiral in the European Union, because not all governments in the Union are fighting as hard against inflation as the Polish government. This will undoubtedly have an important role in economic exchange and will also indirectly affect the Polish economy. But back to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, the first installment of the anti-inflationary shield proposed last year resulted in the first major correction of the inflation trend. We never said that this change would lead to a total choking of inflation, because it would be unfair on our part. The first anti-inflationary shield reduced inflation by around 1 She flattened that inflation. The second shield, which we are talking about now, is going to lead to a similar situation, i.e. a reduction of about 1.5%. inflation level. It must be realized that this situation is not only dependent on what is happening in our country, but is primarily dependent on geopolitical, unfortunately geopolitical, but also economic, worldwide, and thus very strong growth of gas and electricity carriers. I am very pleased that before our point she had the opportunity to speak and there was the Minister of Environment Anna Moscow, who pointed out to us in a clear way what the ETS fees are coming from. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a moment comes when it is necessary to say very clearly: if we are to stop inflation not only in Europe - but a shirt closer to the body and therefore I will talk about Poland and Europe - it is necessary to freeze, freeze, in the worst case, freeze completely, or withdraw from climate policy, which is undoubtedly the author, ladies and gentlemen, three [[Applause]] persons. We will not argue, yes, Vladimir Putin, Angela Merkel, and unfortunately we have a little bit of our share. I think of Poles here, I think of Donald Tusk, today as the head of the largest political group in Europe. Because these groups also make political decisions and can freeze or withdraw from a crazy policy that is only leading to poverty today at the expense of speculators, because the release of the ETS system has led to the respectable (Bell) state, only to this... [[Voice from the room: 6 years.]] ...that this system has become not only unfair and inefficient, but has become a speculative system where only capital groups earn money. Thank you, sir. Law and Justice will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u204	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Quite a censorship for the Polish government, Mr. Vice-President of the Committee. Specs make money. The Polish government earned money in the trading of emission rights. So what, the Polish government is, in your opinion, a speculator? [[Applause]] [[If you were listening, you'd know.]] Interesting censorship, indeed. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about the bill, like I said yesterday, late and obviously underdeveloped. We tabled three amendments yesterday at the committee meeting, but of course they were treated as always, as any reasonable amendment of the opposition by the government as unnecessary. The Polish Liquid Gas Organization, which writes to the chairman of the committee, claims that 8 million LPG users in Poland are waiting for this solution. But as long as you have accepted a reduction in the VAT rate for autogas used as motor fuel, you will in no way change the situation of people using liquid gas for fuel purposes. We're writing an amendment, and you're rejecting this amendment. That means you're throwing those few million gas users in the trash. Why? Because this is our amendment and you don't want to take it into account? We're writing a second amendment to extend the term of the bill until the end of the year. The vice-president himself said that perhaps you would lean on it, perhaps it would be necessary, why not immediately reassure our citizens, why not accept it at once. You're rejecting this because it's our amendment? You don't just do that. We're writing another amendment to throw away the curial article. 2, which simply imposes strange obligations on sellers, traders - to put out information that VAT is lowered. After all, if someone gets a receipt and an invoice, it'll say what the VAT is. What's the information for? Do you want me to say it again? You're going to write that information. It's supposed to be a PiS logo. I want you to know that Matthew the gracious Morawiecki has arranged this for us. Come on, please. Why are you guys doing this? It's really not gonna make anybody any better, it's not gonna make anybody any better. The Prime Minister comes out and tells us that he will improve, he will reduce to the family, there will be a monthly savings of PLN 45. Well, fantastic, we really have something to be happy about. Retirement's gonna make a lot of money, too. I hear 40 zlotys a month. And do you know how much they're gonna lose on inflation? They're just gonna lose one monthly pension. The Minister of Finance has already taken 14 pensions, and it's like 13th that's gonna put a stop to this. So there's nothing. They're just gonna lose it. How do you worry about these seniors? How are you worried? Inflation will eat one pension to pensioners. What are you going to do with them? Nothing, 'cause you're just looking out for your own. The Prime Minister in KPRM introduces salaries and allowances without limit for his. Well, for his own, just for his own, and for his own, he's just worried about his own. You're gonna be okay, and the rest of the citizens are gonna be worried. As I said, this is not an anti-inflationary action. For it to be, you just need a real strategy to fight inflation. So what if there's a 2.0 shield? It's going to be 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, until you finally forget the dial number you're making. It's not just one shield to patch the other and add another. It is simply necessary to allocate funds from the trading of allowances, from the sale of allowances for energy transformation. After all, you have earned PLN 25 billion in the last year. What did the government do about it? If they were destined for transformation, they would be reduced energy prices. The burden on entrepreneurs must be suspended for a year. Polish Load - already today we have information that maybe this Polish Load needs to be moved in time. Yeah, that's what we were talking about. We made adjustments, but no one listened. Mercy, sometimes it's worth listening to the opposition, especially at a time like this, when you've already looped in and chased no one knows what, and you don't know what you're watching - whether most people in the Sejm or good posts or whatever. [[Nothing, nothing.]] Well, you don't just do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should also ensure a stable legal environment for business, because good, strong economy is also the security of our citizens later. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u206	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I already said a few words on this subject yesterday, and I made a proposal on behalf of the Left Club at the meeting of the Finance Commission, an amendment to make this shield 2.0 function throughout the year 2022, so that we do not have citizens of our country that in July or June something will be much better, just to make sure and stabilise that for this year 2022 there will be these reductions that there is no tax on food. Unfortunately, despite my great appreciation for President Costowniak, who so delicately explained the assumptions of this project, the author of this project is someone completely different, because the author of this project is Prime Minister Morawiecki, this is the Kancelaria The President of the Council of Ministers, and they should be the ones who should come out here and tell us who and on what grounds he said it would be bad by July, And since August 1st, it's gonna be okay. Because if you were really honest, honest about it, you'd be analyzing it, you'd pass on expert opinions, and you'd tell us what inflation is projected to be one month after another, from August, September, October, November, and what it's going to look like. Because we really need to make decisions today so that people in our country don't get shock therapy. If it turns out that at a gas station after these regulations have been completed, the fuel will not cost 5,86, but it will cost 6,50 or 7, then I do not know how you will explain it. Finally, yesterday there were also arguments that cost money. Well, it's known that it costs, that's less revenue for the VAT budget. I'm the only one who can tell you that the money is there. Money is, for example, part of European funds. And I want to show you your balance sheet, and it is no longer possible to drop something on the Platform, on the PSL, on the Left, because this is your balance sheet of negotiations and discussions with the European Commission and the European Union. This is the balance sheet: EUR 71 million of potential penalties for the illegal Disciplinary Chamber and EUR 57.5 million for Turów. This is, ladies and gentlemen, nearly PLN 600 million. 600 million PLN is at least 2 weeks longer functioning of this 2.0 shield. This is money that could work today and could be spent on self-government, entrepreneurs. And what's worse, today you're saying that the National Reconstruction Plan is gone, but he's probably gonna be, like, some money. But last night we were all informed that these penalties would be deducted not from the National Reconstruction Plan, but from a new perspective of the European Union, for the years 2021 to 2027. If you take seriously the problems of our country's citizens, those who pay more every day in the store, in the pharmacy, more for gas, more for electricity, then you should present the whole package. When will there be money from the European Union for self-government, for entrepreneurs for new jobs? Nobody's saying that today. Nobody's talking about this today because you don't know it because you're fighting a war in your camp at the expense of your citizens. The guilt is PiS, and punishment will be paid by everyone, all Poles and all Poles. Of course, this solution you've proposed is heading in some direction. But time is too short here, the proposal is presented too late and actually the 2.0 shield will be patched with another shield in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u208	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u209	The government made the first real move to fight the crazy price. It is very good that Poles have finally seen not only announcements, but also concrete measures to reduce food prices and fuel prices. I do not know if the announced shield can save the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, but I know for sure that it will reduce the scale of bankruptcy and chamber executions. Once again, I urge on behalf of my club that the shield we are discussing today be valid throughout 2022 and not only until 1 July. We do not have any real guarantees today that, for example. From August 1st, the situation will improve so dramatically that it will not be necessary to protect Polish citizens, Polish companies or institutions from bankruptcy and poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u210	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers said that this duration is quite questionable. Therefore, we as Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland not only today announce that we will support these solutions, but also make a concrete amendment extending this period not even until the end of 2022 - hopefully by then the situation will stabilise - but still until 31 December 2023. Mr. Marshal, allow me to... Thank you. Thank you. I'm putting this amendment on your hands. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there have been so many words from this speaker about the causes of this situation that we have in the electricity sector. We are probably all asking ourselves questions here, and we probably have a slightly different opinion on this, but we are aware that - we are talking here, we are talking about it - ladies and gentlemen, we need concrete action here. These specific actions must be common. These include those who are in charge of this country today and who are responsible for what is happening with our citizens, our entrepreneurs, but also those who can respond in any way or participate in talks in Brussels. Because I think that another direction unfortunately, which you often emphasize, is also Moscow. Yesterday during the discussion, when Mr Sasin spoke here from this pulpit, I offered him a solution. I say, Prime Minister, or perhaps it is worth taking President Tusk to the plane, perhaps you could work things out over Germany before you get to Brussels and finally start doing something together in Brussels. Perhaps the further conclusion would be that in this Brussels you would find a solution and a way to talk to the one who, today, as if he were a little blackmailing us, to put it mildly when it comes to gas prices. I think it's pretty obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that it's not gonna be like throwing all these invectives or wines at each other, whatever we can solve. The only way we're gonna solve anything is if we get our conclusions straight. And the conclusions of what happened are, above all, that what was blocked in 2016... Probably thanks to this today we would pay less for emissions from the ETS, because some of this energy in wind energy We'd make it. That's a fact. Probably if we did, we'd pay less. Therefore, the first conclusion: the possibility of developing wind energy and modernising it, which is already old, should be restored as soon as possible. That's the first thing. I think that the issue of prosumers also needs to be reduced, but with appropriate funding for the modernisation of transmission networks. Because if that's not the case, you're not necessarily going to be able to make this attempt to freeze prosumer energy. That's the thing we have to do. But first of all, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, which we must have, is one coherent, long-term energy policy. Unfortunately, I have the impression that we are living in political energy chaos. We hear things all the time, but the strategy that we would all, together, agree to, unfortunately, is not there. There is nothing wrong with it, because no government, even if it rules four years or eight years, will implement this policy in its entirety. He can only implement a piece of this policy. And today our wisdom should be that we should have this long-term strategy and that other teams should simply implement it taking into account changing macroeconomic or climatic conditions, the conditions that we agree to or disagree with. We know that as well as we know what is pregnant in Poland. That is why our club will support these solutions. I hope there will be an opportunity to discuss the extension of this... Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to work together for Poles. Because if we don't, these Poles will come for us in a minute and you won't have anything to discuss anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[If PSL comes in, then PSL...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u212	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like fear, it's for the ideas of the Confederacy. If there's an inflationary fear knocking on the door, the government is reaching for solutions that the Confederation had proposed a few months ago. At that time, however, the Sejm Analysis Office ruled that these solutions were contrary to European Union law. Let's see what happens now. Ladies and gentlemen! The question arises: But why this inflation? Mr Costowniak representing the PiS here just said: from the European Union's climate and energy policy. Bravo, you have finally admitted that, finally, you acknowledge what we have been talking about for 10 years, that the European Union's climate and energy policy leads to disaster and leads to expensive, crazy energy prices. You just know, sir, don't you? You guys were supporting this policy a few months ago. Some of your government's agendas have so far supported this climate and energy policy. Last year, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to add further limits to the European Union's climate policy. Fawn Bambi knows the world. That is your relationship with the European Union's climate and energy policy today. Suddenly you realized that this - for us for 10 years it was obvious - was the dormitory of the Polish economy. That's how it is. So draw your conclusions, say your policy as soon as possible. The second element that makes inflation and prices go crazy is of course different international circumstances: from Russian gas blackmail to the international situation, mass printing of money on a global scale. And the third element by which we have inflation is, of course, mass printing of money in Poland. And why this mass printing of money in Poland? And because there were lockdowns and you had to save a lot of companies, giving them money directly to hand. And again, we said it would end this way. The conspiracy was the only one against the united lockdown-sanitary-COVID coalition that said that this would end in the economy, that all these shields, that all that you're doing, would end in one way or another with mass printing of money, which would result in economic disaster and inflation. That's right. And what have you done about it? You guys came up with a new mess. You put a big patch on a too complicated tax system, and as it turns out, this patch has been catastrophic since January this year, you've started producing lots of extra patches. And now we have Frankenstein's tax monster. Ladies and gentlemen! The Confederation amends this law. Greater reduction of excise duty permanently, reduction of the fuel levy permanently, elimination of the emission levy permanently and not for six months, exemption from VAT (Bell) on fixed electricity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u214	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After a month after the first anti-inflationary shield, you have to do the second one, because the first one had a negligible impact on the price level. We warned that she was too stingy, and yet wrongly implemented, that she would not influence in any way to relieve Polish and Polish wallets. Mr Costowniak! You say the first shield flattened the inflation. I think it's 9%. We can ignore the issue of freedom of speech, the involvement of services in eavesdropping on the opposition, we can not worry about the pandemic, but inflation and expensive will touch us all, they are already touching us. Especially those with a lower salary completely They're not doing well in the reality they found. They say the PiS had plans to fight poverty, but it's the poorest people who get bills they can't pay. With tears in their eyes, they look at them, wondering what to do and how to live. What does inflation really mean? It means that we can buy less and less each month for our salaries. 8% inflation - let me repeat: 8% inflation - means the loss of one month's salary. It means a situation in which the president of one month simply does not pay us a salary. One of the PiS Members used to say yes, but that's in the middle of the year. Let's wait a little longer, we'll be in exactly the same situation as if the president hadn't paid us our salary. The penalties imposed on the government are paid by each of us. In addition to the anti-inflationary shields, you need to reach inside yourself and settle your own inability and mismanagement. Because and KPO, and Turów, and Disciplinary Chamber, and punishment for caracale, for canceled contract, make us living in Poland worse and worse, because we have to waste hard-earned money that Poles pay to the state. The mismanagement and the scandals are the further losses you're putting your citizens at risk. What about the other side? A massive, progressive debt, a structural deficit that grows, and a printing of money by the central bank. The second shield, ladies and gentlemen, will also not help if it is executed from debt, from the bonds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or PFR bought by the central bank. It's not going to work, because on the one hand, you're going to eliminate the effects of inflation, and on the other hand, you're just going to multiply the reasons for it. We make one amendment. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 expects these reductions to apply not for six months (The Bell), but for a year. Six months is not enough, because average annual inflation is supposed to be high for the whole 12 months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u216	Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are we talking about today? Today we are debating a reduction in VAT rates. Good, because today Poles need to be helped in this difficult situation. But why do we have to talk about this today, why are we dealing with so much inflation and expensive today? From here, I can't say it's yours. 100% wine, 'cause I'd be lying. This is, of course, the result of the geopolitical situation around the world, the result of a pandemic. But inflation in Poland is half the average in the European Union. Why is this happening? And that is the result of your mistakes. Today, since the beginning of this year, you have given entrepreneurs an increase in danin, which will drive inflation. [[What danin?]] Today we must help all citizens. Reduction of the VAT rate from 23% to 8% It's actually gonna help. At gas stations, citizens will pay less. But in fact, it will not make any difference for entrepreneurs, because VAT is neutral for entrepreneurs, so their situation will not change. Therefore, today we call for the suspension of tax provisions in the Polish Lad, to suspend these provisions, leaving only a tax-free amount of 30 thousand. zł, as well as the second tax threshold. It will have a real impact on the cost in our country. Today you will not scream the reality we are dealing with. It's not the Union 100%. She's guilty of what's going on in our country. Putin is not responsible for what is happening in our country. Of course, all these factors have an impact on how expensive Poland looks today, but it is also your fault. Today, you are partly admitting this by reducing VAT rates. And well, we will support it because we need to help Polish citizens, we need to help them. But that's not enough. We have to suspend the records of the Polish Order. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u218	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PPS wheel, I present our position on today's bill. It must be made clear that the government is only extinguished - at the moment it wants to do so with the hands of Members - a fire which itself has caused its irresponsible actions and, above all, the total lack of activity of the Monetary Policy Council, President of Glapiński, who, of course, is now getting a specific vote of distrust from the Government, and hopefully this will be the end of his disbelief term. It must be made clear that inflation, which is much higher in Poland than in the countries of the European Union, is, at least in part, also wrapped up by the erroneous actions of the National Bank of Poland, which does not fulfil its constitutional obligations. But it is also worth recalling that when Prime Minister Morawiecki presented the assumptions of the first inflationary shield, he argued that he would like zero VAT on food, but there is no consent from the European Commission. He forgot the poor people that the European Commission had not spoken at all on this issue and that he had not addressed the body to which he had to be addressed. Finally, the European Union's finance ministers agreed to such reductions. The Commission has just recalled that Poland can reduce VAT, but the government then chose a cover supplement because it thought that giving money directly into the pocket was more effective as a sausage. Isn't it a shame for the Prime Minister to lie all the time, lie all the time to the citizens and continue to use all kinds of scams, also about the Polish Deal, which really is one big mess of PiS-owski? The shield doesn't really hit the causes of inflation. The reduction of VAT and excise duty, which we will naturally support, because Poles need to be saved, will only temporarily alleviate price increases, and inflation will therefore be much longer, so the government is really prolonging inflation. But the shield does not protect the most economically vulnerable citizens. There is no additional valorization of premium and especially non-contributory benefits. Family benefits and parental benefits have not been valorized (The Bell) since 2016 and this unfortunately needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u220	Thank you, Member. 25 Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me ask you two questions. First question. Why were households not covered by the zero VAT rate for heat and electricity during the winter period? This is a very important aspect, especially in the case of low income people. Question two. Will companies with stocks or pre-payments at existing VAT rates receive VAT refunds on a different basis than before, and will their money so far remain retained in special accounts to which they do not have free access? Dear Minister, I kindly request a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u222	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A question for the Prime Minister, so I'll ask for a written reply. The Prime Minister has repeatedly informed us that he has asked the European Commission to change VAT rates. I would very much ask for written information, information which he has received from the European Commission, within the scope of the possibility of changing these VAT rates. And please send this information to me. Thank you very much. [[You suspect there's no permission for this, what do we do?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u224	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The changes are going in the right direction, but they are far too late. Actually, they're a prescription for disease. If they started operating in November, there would be a chance at least a partial retention of inflation and, above all, citizens would not receive Christmas and New Year's greetings with an increase in energy prices and gas prices. Just now one of Gniezno's residents called with this question: ask the finance minister what happened to our pensions under the New Deal. This is the case for those who have a pension above PLN 4900, because (the bell) in their opinion this regulation does not fully regulate these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u226	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u227	First question to the Minister: When will we finally reduce the VAT rate for electricity for entrepreneurs? France has done so, all tariff rates for entrepreneurs and for residents are the same. You're enchanting here and you're saying it's impossible. There's no oil... The State did not reduce the VAT rate on fuel oil. This is a big scandal. What I want to say is, will there be cards on all your invoices that people will receive, that you didn't lower them, and you could? 'Cause you only make some people on receipts to get cutbacks. And the big scandal begins - the clearance of the PFR shield. I'll be in touch with the Minister, because what businessmen are talking about today is that you are failing, including the PFR shield... Today, there is no way to contact PFR... [[Are you with the finance committee?]] ...and there's no way to talk about it properly. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u228	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm not surprised that government officials are dying out there at the end of the parliamentary bench, because if I came to the Sejm with such regulations, I'd probably be sitting there too. Because it's a shame. I'm talking about art here. 2. He was prepared by some reconstruction group of the Polish People's Republic. You remember, there was a party with a nation, a nation with a party, and today you are burdening entrepreneurs with the need to put such announcements at their commercial points. [[Scandal!]] You want them to organize propaganda for the government. It's a shame. [[Applause]] It is a disgrace that half of this project is imposing propaganda on Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs. You're gonna force the businessmen to put postcards glued to their beautiful shopping spots. Just like you're building. Get out of this article. 2, it's a shame, it's a disgrace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Shame!]] Such rules should not go to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u230	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! We're supposed to fight inflation, we're discussing it, and we're really trying to put out the fires that the government started. I'm talking about rising food prices. I'm skipping the infantile 5 zloty on the food that the Prime Minister called for. But I'm gonna refer to VAT on fuel. If this were to be an anti-inflationary action, i.e. against inflation, this component should not be reduced, but maybe fuel, emission, not VAT. [[But we've reduced that already.]] I remind you that in Poland every company that has 200,000. A year's sales, it has to be a VAT ship. Many companies do not benefit from the option of a lower turnover individual exemption, and VAT is not owned by either the customer or the trader. It is the money of the State Treasury, i.e. in the sense of anti-inflationary (the bell) this action, the reduction of VAT does not give anything at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u232	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The reduction of VAT or the introduction of a zero rate will result in some relaxation of the scale of increases in gas and energy prices, as well as in other goods. But it's too short a time for it to be a real help. And you have to realize that. The effects of increases are very severe and many entrepreneurs will not be able to cope with them. They report it to my parliamentary office every day, and there are a lot of such statements in the press. Already in January there are calls to pay very high, even horrendous amounts for gas nearly seven times as much as the previous ones. My question: Will the government agree to extend the term of this law and what other necessary action is it going to take to save our (Bell) entrepreneurs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u234	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another so-called. An anti-inflationary shield that temporarily reduces public danins imposed on energy carriers, energy or food alone does not create the conditions for a permanent reduction in inflation, because after its expiry, prices will go up again, which will translate into a further increase in this inflation. Procededed law is a temporary painkiller. You give the Poles a pill, and you don't tell them how to treat the disease you've caused. Why do you want to make reductions just for a few months? What are the Poles supposed to do when prices rise? The Poles have received increases in gas prices, energy prices, taxes, the biggest cost for about 20 years and reductions in wages, and you have granted yourself (the bell) unlimited increases since the new year. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u236	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to claim entrepreneurs. In fact, lowering the VAT rate does not give them anything, because VAT is indifferent to them. They act like tax collectors, handing him over to the tax office for a good cause. The key today is household tariffs for electricity and gas charges. If we take into account tariffs for individual customers, for households, also for public institutions, they do not actually take into account actual costs. The state does not pay for this in any way. In fact, all these costs are being passed on to entrepreneurs. Many of them can't handle it, it's worth thinking about changing the formula, paying from the budget (the bell) to individual accounts, so that entrepreneurs don't bear these costs. That would translate into lower inflation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u238	Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are well aware that the proposed changes are a continuation of tax reduction measures in order to solve a really serious problem that affects not only Poland, but the whole of Europe and the world. You know that, and there's a lot of money in this room. Let me remind you about the functioning of the ETS. This side of the room says it's 20 billion, 30, maybe 45 or more. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that this is the biggest burden for energy companies, which should take on the biggest burden of responsibility of the transformation of the Polish energy sector. But even if we are talking about this, we also need to recognise that the changes made, also the programme proposals, my current, have led Poland to reach a minimum of more than 15% of renewable energy. , today more than 16%. These projects, which we carry out (the Bell), effectively allow to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u240	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u241	Mr. Liberty Man! High Izbo! How do Poles try to cope with galloping inflation? 78% households simply reduce expenditure. And what does the government do at the time? He's still pumping empty money. Economists stress that the VAT reduction alone will result in a very slight reduction in the prices of the basic products and then prices will go off again. And the idea that stores have to inform about how great the government is, that it suspends VAT, reminds Orwell. Do the rulers know how much it costs to put that ad at the register? This is the most expensive place in the store that the owners will now have to give back to you. Isn't that enough for you to increase your spending on the Prime Minister's firm from PLN 500 million to PLN 800 million just this year? I feel bad that as a person with a liberal approach to the economy, I have doubts about tax cuts. But under the above circumstances, I have to abstain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u242	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite government propaganda, only 20% of Poles consider solutions of the Polish Load to be beneficial, 40% for unfavorable to them personally. 30% He doesn't even know what's going on. 10%, on the other hand Never heard of the PiS mess at all, maybe even good. In the group affected by this so-called. Polish Load are persons with disabilities. And here's the question: how does the government intend to compensate for a 1% reduction in payments? tax non-profit organisations that deal with assistance just for people with disabilities? Unfortunately, people with disabilities are always at the gray end of all government activities, because they are most often unable to go to elections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u244	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u245	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As the authorities increased the rate of VAT to 23% for probably only 2 years, we said then that it is obvious that they will not lower this rate. And although you've come to rule with the slogan that you're going to fix this mistake of Donald Tusk, unfortunately you haven't managed to lower that VAT rate. It's like my diet. I always promise myself it's gonna be pretty rough from Monday, and then it's gonna work out the way you guys did with that VAT reduction. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] But here we have the opposite situation. I mean, here's the thing. You guys gave me a tax reduction for a while. One for three months, another for six months. I'd like to ask you a question because I can imagine that in a moment we'll be paying 5 zlotys for fuel. We will vote for this, but on August 1st, the protective period you are giving us in this bill will pass, and what will happen then? On July 31st I will pay 5 PLN, and on August 1st I will pay 6 PLN for a liter of fuel? How do you imagine that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u246	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: We will draw a lot into the tank.]] [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If such postcards are put out that, thanks to the government, prices have fallen thanks to the VAT reduction, then next to the postcard, there will be a note that the price increases were due to the tax increases introduced by the government. Incidentally, I am very pleased that her Excellency Anna Moscow here explained to the venerable Member of the left-wing opposition that what is different is the government and the state, and what else is Poland as a country. On the ETS the government gains, while Poland loses as such and the Minister explained it very nicely. Incidentally, the ETS has nothing to do with Putin, Putin laughs at the ETS, and even has little to do with Merkel. Incidentally, ladies and gentlemen, if the second Nord Stream 2 thread is activated, the gas prices will drop at about three times. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Krystyna Sibińska of the PO said to delay the introduction of a new shaft. This is a bad position. That means the new shaft is a good thing. No, ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't need to be introduced at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u248	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Two draft laws are indeed very suspicious. I think he shows the intentions of the government, because he actually puts out signs that we sell goods without VAT - and it's all thanks to the government - it's a little funny and, in short, he imposes a completely meaningless obligation on entrepreneurs, because it's really about helping entrepreneurs. I have one very simple question in this regard: are you even planning as a government again some information action, as has been the case so far, that we have the cheapest fuel in Europe, as has been the case so far, that there is an anti-inflationary shield, the government introduces it and we are fighting in inflation? Is there also money in the budget for some billboards, adverts in the media, press announcements, radio and television? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u250	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u251	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have already been in the Seym for over 14 years and it seemed to me that the level of hypocrisy of the opposition in the previous term of office has already jumped to such heights that you will no longer be able to break through. But listening to you for these 2 days, when we are talking about this expensive place, which is in Poland, and about government proposals, it seems to me that really this level of hypocrisy is already on such highlands that you will not beat it. I'm gonna start with what's been raining here, and what you're most often talking about in the media: the government took 14 pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! It was the Law and Justice that introduced the annual 13th pension last year. Not only did we systematically increase the lowest pensions and pensions in general, but we also introduced an annual 13th pension and the 14th pension was paid at the end of the year (the bell). It's the government of law and justice and justice and justice that gave it to people, and the state is lying and lying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u252	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our cheap fuel project, which assumed to reduce VAT on fuel, was already submitted on 3 November last year. On 30 November, it was sent to the Legislative Commission because of the failure of the Sejm Analysis Office to comply with European Union law. Today, the government's project, which is based on the exact same one, wants to push the state forward in spite of the non-compliance found by BAS with EU law. How do you explain that? In addition, I have a question because today you want to reduce taxes, but to make sure that you do not increase taxes elsewhere, so that you do not make up for it: What expenses do you intend to reduce to finance it? And that's the basic question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u254	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are witnessing enormous inflation, huge price increases. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: This is going to be a giant one, sir.]] These prices sometimes reach up to a few hundred percent. I would like to ask for entrepreneurs again very strongly here, because if we do not support entrepreneurs today, if the PiS government does not unlock European funds, a large group of these entrepreneurs are threatened with bankruptcy. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen. It is not that entrepreneurs will conduct their production or conduct their business activities below cost. These costs will be transferred to goods sooner or later - and this will also continue to turn inflation. I believe that in addition to the package, which is adapted to civilian people, to residents, we should (the bell), the government should create a package for entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u256	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! During today's debate, during the current information and at this point, the opposition completely criticises the reduction of VAT, mainly claims that this concerns only a closed period of 6 months. But it is worth recalling that the opposition never reduced VAT and raised it to 23%. So we have terrible hypocrisy here. I wanted to ask the government representative: Is this period in the Act, 6 months, the final period, or will there be monitoring of this impact process, a reduction in VAT due to the current situation? And I would also like to ask: What would be the impact if the period of validity of these records were to apply throughout this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u258	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think - and here I am looking towards the piss bench - that enough, ladies and gentlemen, with this historical policy, because today, in general, you reach only very often into history, and the problems are here and now, today, and it is your responsibility to solve them. Since yesterday, I look forward to answering the question of how this law is supposed to help commodity farms that keep complete accounts. All the VAT that appears in the case of the farm's activities has been deducted for years. This is no cost to the farm, and since yesterday you have been stubbornly telling farmers that such a blessing from heaven falls on these farms. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Despite this shield farmers, Polish farms are still without help. Really accept our proposal: 1 000. PLN up to 1 t manure on each farm. It's gonna be some kind of help, 'cause now it's fake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u260	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The yeast is ubiquitous: in a shop, in a bazaar, in media charges. Inflation eats savings, and the shield does not guarantee anything, above all - the safety of Poles, especially pensioners, because inflation is expected to cause pensioners to lose as much as their monthly retirement. So I wanted to ask you what you're proposing for this group of people. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance has announced that there will be no 14th pension. What are you gonna secure that with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u262	Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr Trela and Mrs Hennig-Kloski from Poland 2050. As financial problems, you are pointing out the penalties charged by the European Commission for the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber and the Turin mine. I have a question for you directly. It is easy to show concrete amounts, millions, just tell me if, in the light of your expectations, the government should stop mining in the Turów mine, halt production 7% energy in the country, lose more than 5,000. jobs and halt the supply of heat to several thousand inhabitants of Bogatyn. What you're showing is a fact, there's no discussion about it. It is a pity that you do not see that the judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in breach of (the bell) of the law, has taken such, even unbelievable, a one-man decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u264	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! It's supposed to be New Deal, it's an old mess, but it's a new mess. For the past few months, the Law and Justice Government has fed Poles and Poles the belief that we will have cheaper, easier and safe. It's more expensive, it's less secure, and most of all, there are smaller salaries. The last few months have been hopeful, but the first few days of the new year shows how you have not prepared for inflation, expensive and rising gas and electricity prices. In Bydgoszcz for the first few days of the new year we collected several thousand signatures under a petition to the Minister of Finance, because the cost replaced all other concerns of Poles. About 30%.40%. more expensive butter, a few dozen percent - bread, more expensive vegetables and fruits - that is the success of your government in the first days of 2022. And either you go for some reason, or the Poles themselves will thank you for this evil authority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u266	Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the year we have been dealing with Polish Ład, which raised the burden for entrepreneurs. This has shifted into an increase in the price of goods on store shelves and an increase in service prices, which today gives us an expensive price. Today you are lowering your VAT rates for 6 months, and very well, but this is not a system solution, it is an intervention solution. What are you going to do after six months? The reduction in the VAT rate will not translate into a reduction in the cost of doing business. Today, as a result of this expensive and high inflation, the government receives much more money to the budget, so that grace does not make it lower this VAT. Of course it's a good thing that's gonna happen, but what's next? What after six months? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u268	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Mariusz Gojny.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions asked by ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u270	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Adam Gawada, is still in writing, but he does not want to... [[Mr. Marshal, Andrzej Costowniak.]] Are you the rapporteur? [[Here is the rapporteur, and I am...]] Oh, there it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as rapporteur, I have a kind of duty, not as much as it is my duty, to answer the questions that have been asked here in the committee meeting. Of course, with regard to the issues that concern the law itself, I think everyone believes that the changes, the tax reduction are to go to a great extent in this direction, in order to reduce all those elements which today lead to price increases. This is absolutely our job, and this is also the direction that I think is very right. It is also impossible to fail to refer to other topics that have been addressed here and which go beyond the outline of this law. If we wanted to examine issues related to the rise in energy prices or other energy sources, this whole spectrum of issues was presented yesterday by Prime Minister Jack Sasin to the High House. This was also done today during the discussion under the heading: Current information. For my part, however, I would like to stress that if we looked at the whole spectrum of these climate protection measures, with the reduction of the nuisance associated with carbon dioxide emissions or other pollutants, also in those aspects that are moving towards the introduction of a mix of energy in line with the adopted energy policy, because these issues were also being addressed today at the point at issue, it is impossible to point out that in the recent period more than 50 contracts have been signed for the amount of PLN 4 billion. These agreements are moving towards the modernisation of heating systems, i.e. the most severe ones related to the so-called ones. low emissions. That is also what you Members have brought here today. Therefore, today, when discussing this law and adopting its solutions, I consider it very deliberate and very appropriate to refer to a certain period of time. This period will be the next six months. After all, at this time we will be observing the situation in Poland, how the issue of energy prices is changing. It is therefore also not excluded that, if necessary, we will also engage in such discussions in the future. As rapporteur for those issues that have been addressed in the Chamber, I think we can all agree that the direction of change is as appropriate as possible. This was also done by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u272	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice will speak on behalf of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There have been many questions, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a lot of statements and certain political declarations. I think it is really time for serious political declarations on how we are going to behave on the so-called. European salons, how we will fight what unfortunately is the foundation of the whole inflationary process. Ladies and gentlemen, a few questions have also been raised, which were directly related to the law itself. I will start with such a question from the Commissioner of the Civic Coalition: When is the end of support for entrepreneurs? I would like to remind you that this bill is also addressed to entrepreneurs, to all citizens who use fuel, to foods that use gas, to use electricity. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also addressed to entrepreneurs. You're mocking the information to be posted in the stores. I think most of us in this room are actually pro-European. Somehow, when we see information about the European funds that are spent on our economy, you don't make jokes. What is important is the question, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is one of the most important questions about assistance in the longer term. We declared this by presenting both the bill at the very beginning, at first reading and during the work of the finance committee. It is also declared by the Prime Minister. We will monitor this situation on a regular basis. We are all aware that the situation and the dynamics of events in recent months are enormous. It's gonna have to be done, like I said, on the up-to-date. I will return, ladies and gentlemen, to one of the meetings of the Public Finance Committee, to a meeting literally two months ago. There we recalled information about inflation readings, not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe or around the world. And I took the liberty of comparing it to those readings that could literally be verified in the last few days. Ladies and gentlemen, each of these inflationary readings, starting from Asia, looking at Europe, the United States, is higher than what all agencies have assumed, including international institutions. Today, it is unnecessary to decide how we will behave in six months' time. It is essential that we control and supervise each other very closely. In a few months, we will probably decide whether or not we are maintaining this process, whether we are strengthening it, whether we are withdrawing from it. You say it's too late, you knew how to behave before. But let me remind you that the anti-inflationary shield 2.0 is already another installment of support, and it is not only Polish entrepreneurs, in the field of anti-inflationary. First anti-inflationary shield, today second. But let us also remember that COVID support is undoubtedly one of the very important elements of the whole inflationary process in the world. This support for Polish entrepreneurs amounted to PLN 200 billion. I remember how much you criticized me. Some people said that too much money, that they shouldn't be at all, because the market should be able to handle it on its own. Others claimed that the money was far too little. This money into the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs were visited historically by a lot, because more than PLN 200 billion. What caused this? This has caused, ladies and gentlemen, that today we can talk all the time about one of the lowest levels of unemployment in Europe, about the fact that in Poland post-COVID production - some say so, although I say that we are still in COVID time, and I think that this time will still take a little while - it is one of the highest that is one of the highest reflections. Today's production level, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the highest, as I said, in Europe. I'm looking at the O.R. and I think we mostly remember the '90s. Some of us were very young people, others were a little older, but we learned the drama of unemployment in our country. We have announced support for Polish business so as not to lead to its return. We continue to maintain a very low level of unemployment. Both the first anti-inflationary shield and the anti-inflationary shield 2.0 are elements of real support. We cannot discuss today that we are not providing support. We support you. For the first time, once again, this is the first time we have a VAT reduction. Some of you are complaining. You're saying the cut is too small. Let me remind you that the lion part of the room on my left raised VAT. So today it seems inappropriate to pay attention to those who lower it. Some of you also draw attention to this - I think that you are only saying this as a joke - that after the reduction of the VAT rate fuel in Poland can cost 5 PLN. And then what happens when the anti-inflationary shield's records cease to apply? [[You have no idea.]] Madam President always has ideas for everything. Let's just stick with it. Ladies and gentlemen! Fuel in Poland is today one of the cheapest fuels in Europe. It is also due to the fact that we have one of the lowest tax charges in Europe and various types of issue charges. We buy oil in exactly the same place. We buy it from the Qatari, from the Americans. We also acquire it in other markets. We buy it with exactly the same money as everyone else. We use the same technologies that others use. In Poland, fuel costs PLN 5.70 - I think about diesel, because I buy it - and in other countries in Europe it can cost almost 2 euros. Some of you will say: they make more money. The truth is that when it comes to fuel - I am talking about oil - or about the gas that we have also talked about - no one from the Russian position, from the OPEC position will ask us how much we want to pay. Today they decide the price of oil or natural gas. This is also to a large extent a task for European elites, which should clearly correct their ETS policy. Unfortunately, the cause of the situation we have in Europe and around the world is COVID-19. The ETS has also contributed to the increase in inflation, and the impact on the European economy by, I think, Russia. It's about gas issues, and it's the madness that Russia is trying to force, in fact, to open. Nord Stream 2. This is definitely a political tool, not an economic tool. Today, indeed, the economy is losing to politics. If we all see this - on the basis of the talks in the cockroaches, I say that we all see it - then I think we need a much greater commitment from the European community. [[Applause]] [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u274	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes the introduction of a number of solutions included in the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield 2.0. Last Tuesday, the press releases reported that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki had adopted the above-mentioned assumptions. The shield. It is therefore surprising that the project that the High Chamber is working on is a parliamentary bill. What is the justification for the procedure of the project which was allegedly adopted by the Council of Ministers? At Tuesday's press conference, Prime Minister Morawiecki also called on the Poles to check whether the shopkeepers had lowered their prices as a result of the regulations introduced. At the same time, he threatened to send the entire control machine to entrepreneurs, listing among others. UOKIK and commercial inspection. Whether, therefore, this project aims to introduce increased controls on entrepreneurs, in particular small local shops, who have been struggling since 1 January with a great deal of formalities and complexity resulting from the introduction of so-called. A polish deal? At this press conference, the Prime Minister also argued that a reduction in the VAT rate should have an impact on the price reduction. It should be made clear that in his statement, the Prime Minister did not mention that rising electricity and energy prices for entrepreneurs could have a much stronger impact on the prices of basic foodstuffs, as these increases cover a much higher level than 5%. which will be reduced by the rate of VAT. What solutions will the government propose for entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized companies? When will a package of solutions be prepared targeted for this area of the economy? What will the government think will be the long-term impact of the temporary reduction of public danins on energy, energy or food carriers? Will the government's assessment of the expiry of the current price solutions not increase again, which in turn will translate into an increase in inflation again? In the opinion of the Council of Ministers, will the adoption of the proposed package of solutions mean that 2023 will bring again inflation well above the NBP's inflation target?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u276	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Formal applications.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask your marshal about the formal procedure in which you spoke here. According to Art. 39 The applicant shall appear at first reading, which has occurred. During the second reading, Art. 43 - At the meeting of the Sejm, the report of the committee shall be presented by the rapporteur elected. That's what happened, too. There is no question of sending an applicant anywhere. Therefore, I have a question for your marshal. How did the honourable Member come forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u278	You're right, he shouldn't have performed. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u279	I would like to continue on the subject of Mr Shopiński's speech. I think he pointed out how your Marshal Terletsky violated the rules of procedure. The rapporteur shall reply at first reading of the draft law. Then the bill becomes the property of the Sejm, the property of the committee which presents the report. Then the questions are addressed to the rapporteur, not to the applicant. Mr. Marshal! If today you have informally given the floor to Mr Costerman, I would ask you to allow us - if we are nearing the end - to finish our speeches. Today, your entire presentation of the Cost Room was informal. Same thing happened yesterday. Ministers didn't fit in at a certain time with their pronouncement. Their time was extended by up to 25 minutes (the bell), and unfortunately not by Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u280	Good. Thank you very much. I'll read your article. 187 Rules of Procedure: Subject to the provisions of Article. 186 Only the applicant, the representative of the legislative committee referred to in Article, may speak after the list of speakers has been exhausted. 85, and the rapporteur, then Marshal of the Sejm, closes the discussion. [[First reading.]] We proceed with the consideration of items 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda: Yeah, those three. Now I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to present the justification for the draft law from print no. 1699, the first one I mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members of the applicants, I would like to present to the High House a draft law amending the Anti-drugs Act, print No 1699, which I ask all of us to see, and I would also like to make substantive comments. I am extremely honoured and personally proud of the fact that after many years of efforts will be possible to grow cannabis for medical purposes in Poland, so that soon patients will have the opportunity to buy at an acceptable low price in pharmacies and all the time available cannabis herb for medical purposes produced in Poland. I would like to begin by thanking the crowds of socialists who for years have sought this opportunity, who at dozens of conferences, in dozens of teams, the committee indicated the need and possibility of using cannabis in sick children and adults. There is no way in the preliminary part not to mention at least two names: Dorota Gudanec and Dr. Mark Bachański. These are only two out of ten people, as not hundreds of people who have promoted cannabis for medical purposes for years. Dr. Marek Bachański, in a study conducted at the Warsaw Children's Health Center, showed that cannabis is extremely effective in saving the health and life of children with drug-resistant epilepsy, and Mrs. Dorota Gudanec, the mother of a sick child, reached many people and Members with her commitment, leading to the adoption in the last term of the law tabled by the Members of Kukiz15, allowing the purchase of cannabis for medical purposes in pharmacy for thousands of Polish patients for whom this plant was very often the only rescue. This law is a continuation of the cooperation between Kukiz15 and the Law and Justice on access of Polish patients to a medicinal substance such as hemp, with the principles of safety and protection of society against substances used for drug use, fulfilling the overarching principle contained in the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction provides for a revision of the rules on crops and the collection of hemp other than fibrous hemp in order to obtain pharmaceutical raw materials. The bill consists of two articles. Art. 1 contains 14 amendments to the anti-drug law, Art. 2 determines the time of entry into force of this law, it is 14 days since the announcement. Going back to the law and the article itself. 1 - Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 1 in Amendment 1 contains five definitions. There is a definition of fibrous hemp, in which we define an increase of 50%. the available quantity of THC, so we increase it from 0.20% to 0.30% on the dry weight. This solution is very important and desirable by farmers, because it has happened that, depending on sunshine and soil, the plant sometimes exceeded our previous 0.20, containing 0.21 or 0.22 and farmers suddenly became, according to the law, large drug producers. Of course, the courts won, but it was unnecessary. There is also a definition of RFID - it is a technology of remote (radial) plant supervision. We also define what cannabis herb other than fibrous - these are all other parts of the plant that contain in their dry matter more than 0,30% THC. There is also a definition of cannabis resin. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of 2., we are talking about the collection of poppy milk and opium from poppy and herb or cannabis resin other than fibrous, whether or not it can occur only after consent has been given to such cultivation by the chief pharmaceutical inspector. The important solution is change 4. It is the supervision of crops, production, processing, processing, transport, distribution and marketing for research purposes. This is under the control of the regional pharmaceutical inspector. It is very important to change the 6th amendment, which says that in Poland we can produce active substances for the pharmaceutical industry, i.e. that in Poland we will be able to grow cannabis for medical purposes - it is a research institute subordinate to the agricultural minister. This article also defines what the permit is to look like and what must be included in this permit. It is also defined that the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector shall consult the Provincial or Capital Police Commissioner on the security that the institution or institute has to ensure that these crops are safe. A very important change, which we have also made here, is that the competent police authority gives its opinion in the form of a resolution within a deadline of 30 days. If such an opinion is not delivered within these 30 days, it shall be deemed to be a positive opinion. It was the police themselves' request, which said that in 30 days it would certainly work out, and here there is no danger. There are five further detailed solutions to the authorisation as to what it is to look like. Then there's how the lab is supposed to be equipped. Amendment 10 treats when the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector may refuse authorisation. The point is not to make any decision based on the so-called. I only wish it would be due in particular to the lack of land. or properly secured spaces. Amendment 12 indicates that the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector keeps a register of authorisations issued. In Amendment 13. it is mentioned that the provincial pharmaceutical inspector controls the conditions under which the cultivation is carried out and storage is carried out and provides that information to the chief pharmaceutical inspector. In Amendment 14, there is a delegation for the Minister of the Interior to issue an act defining the criteria for security, storage and control. This is the 14 changes I was talking about. These are very important changes, as well as, I think, epoch changes when it comes to the possibility of growing cannabis for medical purposes in Poland. Among the viewers, as well as Members, there may be a question: Does this law solve all problems related to the production, processing, use of cannabis for medical purposes? Honestly and openly, it doesn't solve all the problems. During my many years of work in the field of legalization of cannabis for medical purposes, I have collided with many problems that this law does not change. E.g. is the problem of drivers' patients who use hemp as a medicine and have difficulties in both professional and social functioning, because according to the applicable law drivers cannot be present active substance contained in hemp, it is the famous THC. During our work, we also considered the problem of cannabis production for medical purposes. We asked ourselves who could produce cannabis used in medicine: whether only institutes subordinate to the agricultural minister, or all entrepreneurs who would like to produce it and obtain the consent of the GIF. We have also failed to liberalize the problem of the treatment of cannabis herb for medicinal purposes. Dear Members and all who are watching us! We have been given a mandate of trust from society to solve society's problems, not to deepen them yet. A serious politician should ask himself what will be the distant consequence of his decision. And that is the reason for maintaining very strict solutions to the current law, which I have just discussed, solutions that we have not touched or resolved in the course of long substantive work. I promise I'll continue to work on cannabis for medical purposes. I will observe how this legislation changes in other European Union countries and how it affects the care of society, including patients. I invite all of you to cooperate, but I would like to point out that we cannot succumb to the hurrahoptimism that is very often spread in relation to hemp. Cannabis for medical purposes, as the name suggests, is used for medical purposes and should therefore be used. High Izbo! In Poland we have a plague of alcoholism that destroys our families and kills about 15 thousand. Poles a year. We also have a smoking plague that kills 80,000. Poles a year. A very liberal approach to alcohol in the past led to a large increase in alcohol consumption in Poland. Unfortunately, we are a leader in the European Union in terms of alcohol consumption, we drink about 11 l of pure alcohol per person and this size has unfortunately been growing for years, while in other countries, for example. in Denmark, significantly decreased. We do not want the same situation to happen when it comes to drugs in Poland, but we maintain some of the strict provisions contained in the Anti-drugs Act. At the same time, I trust in providing the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants in Poznań that it will be able to provide Polish patients with cannabis for medical purposes at a much lower price than it is currently in pharmacies, and in sufficient quantity that patients do not wait weeks for the next delivery of this medicinal product, because it is very important to continue therapy. However, if this is not the case, I will take firm and quick steps to make sure that this changes in the interests of Polish patients. I kindly ask the High House to proceed quickly and support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Green Party, to present the justification for the draft law on printing 1700. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, I have the honour to present to you the parliamentary draft law on fibre hemp from print No. 1700. This project was created as a result of cooperation between the Parliamentary Parliamentary Group. The legalization of Marijuana as one of the package of three laws. In addition to the project on fibrous hemp discussed here today, this package also includes a draft printing law No 1701 on the legalization of medical cannabis production in Poland and a third project, which is not currently procedated, decriminating the possession of small quantities of marijuana for recreational purposes. All three projects, I would like to stress, have been developed and consulted over the past few months in joint work involving the social side, experts, politicians, entrepreneurs, farmers. Today, the draft law on fibre hemp presented by me was consulted with a long list of entities, from government and local administration, starting with the research institute, chambers of commerce, entrepreneurs, NGOs and citizens. Importantly, this project has also been submitted to the European Commission's notification process and this process, together with the European consultation process and so-called. the freezing period, freeze period, has been successfully completed. In conclusion, this project has been well prepared and consulted and is fully ready to be processed by the High Sejm. Before I go over the details and indications of the benefits of adopting this new bill, I would like to present the current situation related to the cultivation of fibre hemp in Poland and signal the main problems that we want to solve through this law as a projector. First, I'm going to tell you what fibrous hemp is. This is a type of hemp which is legal in Poland after fulfilling certain conditions and obtaining the required consents. This is a crop that has no psychoactive effect, where the concentration of a psychoactive substance, i.e. tetrahydrocannabinol, commonly referred to as THC, ranges from 0.20% on the dry weight basis to about 1%. in Switzerland, depending on local regulations adopted nationally. The limit value of THC in eligible crops for agricultural subsidies adopted by the European Parliament last year is 0.3%, i.e. higher than that allowed today by the Polish law. For comparison, psychoactive marijuana contains a much higher level of THC in the range of 10 to 30%. On a daily basis you will find - and may use - products based on fibrous hemp or with their addition. They are found in cosmetics, food products, textiles, animal feed, and are more and more often used in the production of organic composites replacing plastic. Unlike plastic, which has been decomposing for up to 400 years, they only need 5 months to fully decompose and distribute in the environment and do not pollute the environment. As plants, they are also very helpful in the remediation of pollutants, degraded soils or biomass for the production of renewable energy. Poland, which is important, has a long tradition of growing and growing industrial hemp. In Poland still in the 1960s. they were grown in an area of 30 000. ha. In comparison, today's declared area of fibre hemp is as small as ten times as many as three thousand. ha. Historically, industrial cannabis in Poland was used mainly in the textile industry, but today we know that this application can be much wider. In the current legal state, the cultivation of fibre hemp may be carried out for the purposes of the textile, chemical, pulp and paper industry, food, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, building materials, seeding, etc. So that application is very broad. Today, together with the growing need for environmental solutions and the search for alternatives to plastics, new renewable energy sources, industrial cannabis in the world and Poland are experiencing a renaissance. According to the Insight Policy report, the recovery in the production of these plants in Poland took place with the introduction of EU subsidies for the cultivation of industrial hemp. Between 2014 and 2020 there was a significant increase in the crop area. Only in 2019 the area of seed with different varieties of fibrous hemp increased by almost 80% on a yearly basis. In 2019 almost three times as many farmers as in 2015, i.e. the first year of EU subsidies, applied for the aid. Unfortunately, this growth process stopped last year, i.e. 2021. For the first time in nearly a decade, the area of fibre cannabis cultivation in Poland significantly decreased by 30%. Why? The answer can be found in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's communication, which shows that since 2021 the cultivation of one of the varieties of hemp, the Finola variety, is not eligible for direct payments and area payments under the Rural Development Programme due to exceeding a very restrictive THC of 0.20% compared to dry matter in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Without changes in the law further development of this sector will not be possible, and lack of development means multi-billion-dollar losses. From forecasts e.g. The euromonitor shows that the market itself for products from CBD, one of the products from fibrous hemp in Poland, can reach PLN 5 billion by 2025. The dynamic development of the cannabis area will also have an impact on the increase in revenue to the state budget and because we have many problems of a different nature today, this project should be considered and therefore I call on the High House to take it seriously and seriously consider it. The withdrawal of agricultural subsidies due to exceedances of very restrictively defined level of THC is not the only problem of today's hemp breeders in Poland. The primary problem is the threat of criminal liability and the loss of cultivation for the slightest exceedance of the value of THC in the plant, i.e. high risk and personal, and investment. Another problem is the complex two-step process of annual crop registration, so-called. districtization adopted by the voivodship sejmikas, and only after it is possible to obtain permission by the municipality. This is usually a fairly long-term two-step process. The next problem is a narrow catalogue of uses of fibrous hemp approved by today's law. In short, the law does not keep up with reality, it does not keep up with the market in this respect. Another problem is the difficulty in the annual registration, which also concerns research institutes, R &amp; D crops run by research institutes in Poland, which slows down Polish innovations in this field. Let me remind you that Poland has a rich tradition and rich potential in terms of cultivation and innovation of fibrous hemp. Thus, in order to enable development, it is necessary to amend the current rules and hence this completely new law. The project, which I am presenting to you here today, is aimed at abolishing bureaucracy or simplifying registration rules, increasing the potential for cultivation and processing of fibrous hemp in Poland, and increasing the competitiveness of Polish production on the global market, which is developing extremely dynamically. This project deals with a number of issues. Firstly, it is a question of abolishing criminality under the Penal Code for not even exceeding the level of THC in fibrous hemp and replacing this penalty with a maximum penalty of fine, in order to reduce risk, and personal, and investment in the case of breeders. The second point is to simplify and accelerate the possibility of starting cultivation by repealing the first registration stage, the annual obligation to regionalise in the voivodship sejm, leaving still the obligation to register at the level of the municipality. The third change, very important, is to increase the acceptable level of active substance in current crops from very restrictive in Poland 0.20% - this zero is also very important, because it concerns exceeding this value by at least 1 radius, for which you have the risk of punishment under the Penal Code - to the value of 0,3% in dry matter accepted by the European Parliament. Please note this rift. At the end of last year, the European Parliament approved a solution whereby crops with a value of up to 0,3% THCs are not only fully legal, but even subsidised. This decision is already on the table and is now waiting for the approval of the European Council and this decision is expected this year. In Poland, however, the legislator is still punishing the farmer under the Penal Code for the slightest overrun, at least 1/100 percentage point, of this restrictive value of 0.20% THC. Time to change this, time to adapt the Polish law to the EU solution in favour of Polish farmers and Polish producers. The fourth important issue to which our project concerns is the extension of the catalogue of authorised uses of fibre hemp and the matching of this catalogue to applications already existing on the market and proven. As part of the consultation, the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants in Poland, in agreement with the Polish Chamber of Lnu and Konopi indicated to us a broad catalogue of applications already in practice, highlighting applications in energy, veterinary, feed, composite materials replacing plastic, which I already mentioned, in the remediation and remediation of contaminated land, bee-making applications, fertilising applications, plant protection, scientific and research. These comments were taken into account in the draft submitted to the State. Fifth, last change, which also responds to comments, among others. from the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants, it is a proposal to introduce the possibility of simplifying and conducting crops in order to breed varieties of fibrous hemp, i.e. subsequent innovative varieties of these hemp, in accordance with Polish tradition and potential. We argue here that the lack of such solutions today in the current law makes it difficult to carry out creative and conservative breeding of new and already registered varieties of hemp. It's the fifth, last, very important change. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that the first meeting of the new year is devoted to these projects, because they are important, contrary to appearances. They are important for farmers, for the economy and for ecology. I hope I have persuaded you to do so. From this point on, I would also like to thank the social side, members and members of the Parliamentary Group. Legalisation of Marijuana and many entities and institutions that have spent their time consulting this project over recent months. I ask the High Sejm to direct the project to further work in committees and I hope that it will be finally adopted in the name of the development of agriculture, industry, improvement of the quality of the environment in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u284	Thank you, madam. I would like to ask you, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, to present the justification for the draft law on printing 1701. But before that, I wanted to say one sentence. Well, I think that if Mr. Tomasz Kalita, who is dead, listened to this discussion, he would be pleased. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the applicants, Members and Members of the Parliamentary Group. Legalisation of Marijuana, representatives of various clubs and parliamentary circles draft law amending the law on anti-drugs and certain other laws, contained in print No 1701. Our project aims to provide access to medical marijuana for all patients in Poland who need it. This access is intended to enable the production of raw materials and preparations in Poland to Polish farmers and national companies. We also present a number of provisions necessary for patients, such as the abolition of the statutory ban on the refund of cannabis-based prescription drugs, the standardisation of certificates or a clear indication that processing for own use purchased at the pharmacy of marijuana, e.g. It's not a crime because of its fragmentation. This law, which I am presenting, would not have been without the involvement of Members and Members working in the Parliamentary Group on the subject. Marijuana legalization. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! Marijuana is not a wonderful remedy for all diseases. However, we know that it can be used, for example, to alleviate suffering and symptoms associated with certain diseases. Medical marijuana preparations can relieve patients suffering from chronic pain, chemotherapy-induced nausea or muscle spasticity as a symptom of multiple sclerosis. In such cases, medical marijuana is one of the therapeutic options used in medical practice in many countries, and Polish patients still have limited access to these measures due to completely unnecessary and incomprehensible prejudices. In February 2016, a draft law on medical marijuana prepared by parliamentarians of the then Kukiz club was sent to the 8th Sejm15. The project proposes the introduction of a special supervision and regulation system for hemp preparations. As suggested at that time, patients could grow and process hemp for their own use after obtaining the appropriate authorisation. A description was then prepared of the entire process of controlling such crops so that there would be no abuse. In addition, scientific research was planned to be developed in terms of the effectiveness and safety of the therapy. 2016 was also a special year due to the severe cancer of Tomasz Kalita, former spokesperson of the Democratic Alliance. In the last months of his life, Tomasz Kalita fought hard for legal access to medical marijuana in Poland. In August 2016, the Sejm received a petition on this matter from my current club colleagues together with the so-called. The Kalita project. His illness and death - next Sunday's fifth anniversary - had the effect of speeding up work on Mr Liroy's project. In the course of parliamentary work, amendments were adopted, which significantly changed the original shape of the project, and after these changes this law is still in place today. High Izbo! The adoption of this law of 7 July 2017 was a step in the right direction, but still only a step. After almost 5 years, it is clear that it is time to move forward, so that wider access to preparations serves both Polish patients and Polish farmers. There is still much to be done about access to medical marijuana, but undoubtedly these legislative measures have started a public debate on the therapeutic use of cannabis and have allowed us to move on at all. To illustrate where we are today and why our project is necessary, let us look at the problems that patients who use marijuana prescribed by their physician today must face. The first problem with the prescription can be the availability of medical marijuana in pharmacies. Both patients and pharmacists complain about the fact that pharmaceutical raw materials are often out of shape. This morning I checked in one of the applications for product availability at Cannabis Flos Pharmacy - one variant available in 11% Pharmacy, second in 7%. In Warsaw, Wroclaw or Gdansk, this may not be a problem, in smaller centres it means very much to the patient. But more importantly, it's price availability. Its significance is indistinguishable, since the cost of a monthly treatment can be more than 1,000. zł. High Izbo, 1,000. zł month in month. Even with over-average pay, this is a powerful sum, let alone speaking in the case of an employee who earns little more than a minimum wage. The price is over 65 PLN for 1 g and there is no refund. The 2017 Act introduced a total categoric ban on prescription drugs produced from cannabis by normal reimbursement procedures. Blocking the possibility of refund at the statutory level and a specific preparation is an exceptional solution, unprecedented for other medicines or medical devices. Our response to these problems regarding the limited medical availability of marijuana is twofold. This, first of all, allows national production of hemp other than fibrous hemp for pharmaceutical purposes. In the current legal state, the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous hemp is only possible for scientific research purposes. We propose to allow the cultivation of hemp with higher THC content for the pharmaceutical industry. Such crops would have to meet a number of requirements. They would be carried out on a specific area in order to ensure that access is protected against unauthorised persons after the contract has been signed with the recipient of hemp. First of all, however, cultivation would require authorisation issued by the governor, mayor or president of the city, as is currently the case for poppy and fibre hemp crops, and in addition, and most importantly, an entry in the national register of producers of hemp other than fibrous hemp. A similar solution in Poland is already in force and applies to tobacco cultivation. In this case, the main pharmaceutical inspector would decide to register in the national register. The draft law provides for the imposition of obligations on hemp growers other than fibrous information and gives the chief pharmaceutical inspector the appropriate powers of control. High Izbo! Allowing Polish farmers, Polish companies to grow hemp for the production of medical marijuana is an opportunity to lower the prices of this pharmaceutical raw material and to ensure that it is more accessible. Today we have to bring him back from abroad, e.g. Canada. This is also a new opportunity for Polish farmers. When producing on a sufficiently large scale we could also become medical exporters of marijuana, even to other European countries. Secondly, our response to high prices for patients is to loosen the existing refund ban. We propose such a modification of the provisions of the Refund Act so that the Minister of Health can identify indications for the use of specific disease units for which cannabis recipes could be covered by flat-rate payment provisions. I have no doubt that we can afford, as a state, to help people who are undergoing chemotherapy or who are suffering from spasticity. The more we can afford it if the price of medical marijuana falls thanks to national crops. Let's move on. What if the patient is already able to fulfill the prescription? Patients often do not know how they can legally store and use marijuana bought in a medical pharmacy. Are they allowed to crush it? Can they eat it, for example? in the popular form of cookies? Can they re-use previously vaporized herb? Is this a crime or not? The Anti-drug Act prohibits the processing and processing of hemp other than fibrous hemp. However, it is not known whether this also applies to fully legal medical marijuana. Therefore, we propose that we make it clear that there is no criminal offence for those who process or convert medicinal products prepared from hemp other than fibrous hemp for their own use. In this way, we will make life easier for patients and relieve them of unnecessary stress. Patients often wonder today whether and when they can safely get behind the wheel. Today, marijuana in road safety legislation is classified as one of many drugs or substances with alcohol-like effects. Meanwhile, we are dealing with a substance, first, authorised for therapeutic use, second, whether you like it or not, often used for recreational purposes. The law should be adapted to this new reality, just as we have more nuanced rules on alcohol consumption, where we distinguish between the state of alcohol consumption and the state of drunkenness. Therefore, we propose to introduce into the Polish legal order the concept of the state after the use of THC and the state of THC drunkenness. In the draft law we propose blood THC limits based on those in other countries, e.g. Norway. These are the values chosen very carefully. Many will even say that perhaps too cautiously. In addition, although we need further research in this area, there is much evidence that the effect of marijuana on the response time and the ability to drive safely is completely different in a person who takes it first, third or tenth time and another person who, for one reason or another, takes it regularly. Therefore, we are introducing a gateway for the Council of Ministers so that, on the basis of the studies, it can increase the blood THC concentration limits for patients taking long-term medical marijuana. Currently, the law in Poland is not adapted to the situation in which patients are located. Any person who is in possession of cannabis drought may be suspected of having it illegally. This can cause problems in the workplace, for example. What happens when a man with hemp drought stops a policeman? Patients today are rescued by showing prescriptions or phone calls to their doctors. Therefore, we propose standardization of medical marijuana acceptance certificates, including the possibility of issuing certificates in electronic form. It's a small thing, and it'll help patients very much. High Izbo! The therapeutic use of marijuana still raises many doubts. How can you be sure that your doctor prescribes or prescribes medical marijuana based on current medical knowledge? It is important to avoid such a situation when a doctor opts out of the therapeutic option, because it is not familiar to him, but also one when he prescribes marijuana despite the absence of any medical indication. Therefore, we propose that the training standards for doctors and pharmacists include issues related to the use of hemp. The bill also includes an extended vacathio legis. The Act would enter into force 90 days after its announcement. This is due to the fact that it is proposed, among others. changes in codes and implementation of certain solutions related to e.g. with new responsibilities and powers of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector will not be possible without appropriate preparation. The exception from the date of entry into force of the entire Act concerns the amendment to the Refund Act, which is to enter into force within a standard period of 14 days from the date of publication. Here I would particularly like to thank two people, because this law would, of course, not have been possible if it had not been for the cooperation of many people mentioned by the Parliamentary Group on Parliamentary Affairs. Marijuana legalization. A moment ago, Mrs Zielińska spoke about it, and I also reminded her of it. If it hadn't been for these people's work, these two projects today wouldn't have been discussed in the parliament hall. But this is also the work of many people outside the team. I would particularly like to thank two people for the important, necessary and invisible work that was done by the legislator Radosław Koba, who turned into legal provisions the assumptions developed by the team, as well as for the great support and cooperation of Łukasz Rydzik. High Izbo! There is no need to hide that as a Parliamentary Group. The legalization of Marijuana is, as the name itself indicates, a proponent of the legalization of cannabis for not only pharmaceutical but also recreational use. However, this project, which we are discussing today, does not normally concern cannabis as a substance. It's about helping the sick, it's about reducing their suffering, it's about stopping the pain. Therefore, I hope that the project will meet with an understanding of the whole room. We are, of course, ready to work as part of the committee's work to co-operate with the solutions contained in the Sachaika project, presented by the secretary of our team, Ms Urszula Zielińska project on fibrous hemp and in our medical marijuana project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u286	Thank you very much, madam. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Anti-drugs Act by Members Kukiz15 and Law and Justice, print no. 1699. Two other projects have also been submitted in this regard by Members of the Civic Coalition, the Left and the Confederation, prints Nos 1700 and 1701. The aim of the printing project No 1699 is to amend the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction on issues relating to crops and the collection of hemp other than fibrous hemp in order to obtain pharmaceutical raw materials. On the basis of the current provisions, after obtaining a marketing authorisation issued by the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, herbal cannabis other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures, as well as all other extracts from hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous may constitute pharmaceutical raw materials for the preparation of prescription drugs. In addition, those matters are governed by the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 5 December 2017 on the model application for marketing of pharmaceutical raw materials for the preparation of prescription drugs in the form of hemp herb other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures and all other extracts of hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous and the detailed data and list of documents covered by that application. On the other hand, the area for the preparation and administration of medicinal products - prescription medicines is subject to the requirements laid down in particular by the Law of 6 September 2001 - Pharmaceutical Law and the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 18 October 2002 on the basic conditions for running the pharmacy. The most important proposal contained in the project is that crops and a collection of hemp other than fibrous hemp from which medicinal products will be prepared on the market should be carried out after the authorisation of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector by the Polish Research Institute supervised by the Minister responsible for Agriculture has been obtained. These permits will be issued in the form of a decision by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector after consulting the Police Voivodeship Command. It will be important to ensure that cultivation is protected against unauthorised access, including by the need to keep lists of persons entitled to enter and vehicles entitled to enter. Crop safeguards must also take into account the application of measures to indicate breach of the protection against unauthorised access of persons and measures to continuously observe the entire area of the intended crop, in particular the recording of the image. Infrastructural requirements will require RFID, radio frequency identification, remote technology, radio plant surveillance, which uses radio waves to read and transmit the data contained on the label applied to each of the crops grown, enabling the identification of each of these plants at the same time in the reading field. Other important changes also appear in the proposed law, including: a change in the definition of fibre hemp setting a maximum level of delta-9-THC-2-carboxylic acid not exceeding 0,3%. The Law and Justice Club supports the project. By adopting the Law of 7 July 2017 amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices, we agreed to use hemp raw materials other than fibrous cannabis as pharmaceutical raw materials. It is time for raw materials to come from Polish, fully controlled crops, not from abroad. At the same time, we do not find our acceptance of the left-liberal proposals put forward by the Members of the Civic Coalition, the Left and the Confederation, contained in prints 1700 and 1701. We speak not for, among others. the introduction of de facto tolerance for the consumption of certain quantities of marijuana, the liberalisation of hemp crops other than fibrous hemp, the possibility for patients taking cannabis products made from hemp other than fibrous processing and processed for their own use, the possibility of reimbursement of prescription drugs manufactured from hemp other than fibrous hemp... [[Voice from the room: Why?]] ...or too wide-ranging proposals for fibre hemp. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit applications for rejection at first reading of print projects 1700 and 1701. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to say, I'm shocked at the end of my friend's speech at the PiS. We are discussing proposals for legislation on the cultivation of two types of hemp: seed, fibre, industrially used, and Indian, used among others. for the production of so-called: medicinal marijuana. Seed hemp has a wide range of economic applications, including many health-promoting activities. As we know, they are obtained from, among others. CBD oil, which is cannabidiol, used in the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. The seeds also contain small amounts of THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol. Indian hemp has a significant amount of THC, which is responsible for the psychogenic action of marijuana and hashish. Legally used for production, among others. so-called. medicinal marijuana. It is paradoxical that since 2017 law allows the distribution of cannabis drugs, but at the same time their cultivation in Poland is prohibited. Medicines are imported from abroad, similarly to the substrate, which reduces their availability and very high price. The Parliamentary draft law amending the law on anti-drugs, print no. 1699 by the Kukiz club15, legalizes the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous cannabis in order to obtain pharmaceutical raw materials. The Act indicates the institutions which should issue and supervise cultivation permits, the pharmaceutical inspection post and entities which could seek such authorisation, according to the authors of the draft law, only research institutes. The project sets out the minimum infrastructure requirements to be met by the site of cultivation and safety, including the protection of crops against theft. It discusses remote technology, radio surveillance of objects. Our surprise is the limitation of potential producers to research institutes, as well as the allocation of rights to both licensing and supervision to the pharmaceutical inspector alone. On the other hand, it is positive to pay considerable attention to the safety of crops. The parliamentary bill amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction and certain other laws, print No 1701, by the Left, concerns about the same issue. It aims to enable and supervise the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous hemp for the pharmaceutical and seed industries. The project is extended to other aspects of cannabis cultivation and processing. It introduces into the Polish legal order a condition after the use of tetrahydrocannabinol and a state of tetrahydrocannabinol intoxicating, similar to that after alcohol use and intoxication, and consequently proposes changes in road safety regulations. It aims to enable patients taking cannabis medicines to process and convert them for their own use. The authors rightly point out that preventing the national cultivation of cannabis causes that medicines produced from cannabis are not only difficult to access, among others. for oncology patients, but they're also terribly expensive. They suggest a flat-rate fee for meds. A permit would be required for the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous hemp by the mayor, the president responsible for the location of the crop. In addition, the authors propose that this authorisation should be granted only after an entry in the national register of producers of hemp other than fibrous hemp kept by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector has been obtained. The inspection would also have a crop control function. The project does not narrow down the list of possible crop producers, unlike the previous one. Each producer would have to meet the production standards set by the competent minister and protect against unauthorised access. The project is more coherent and interesting in my opinion than the one by Kukiz15. We believe that it rightly assigns a role to local governments in legitimising crops, as well as not narrowing down a group of producers who could apply for authorisation to grow hemp other than fibrous hemp. The Civic Coalition supports this bill. The Parliamentary draft law on fibre hemp by the Civic Coalition, de facto Greens, print No. 1700, concerns fibre hemp, seed, or industrially used hemp. The authors emphasize new uses of fibrous hemp, among others. as a source of renewable energy and an excellent source of feed, a substrate for the production of composite materials, fertiliser sources and many others. They point out that the law unnecessarily narrows down the list of economic sectors where hemp can be used. They want to change the definition of authorised fibre hemp in Poland, increase the THC content from 0.2 to 0.3%, which would be in line with the European Parliament's amendment and would improve the competitiveness of Polish producers of industrial hemp. The proposed simplification of administrative procedures when authorising the production and determination of the crop area is entirely right, the liberalisation of the provision with a maximum permissible THC content in dry matter of fibre hemp grown in Poland is in line with the global trend and can actually improve the competitiveness (Dawn) of Polish producers. We believe that the bill is well thought out, was widely consulted with various stakeholders. The proposed changes are not controversial in any way and can actually lead to the development of an important sector of the economy, such as the production of hemp. The Civic Coalition Club will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u291	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you. As Chair of the Parliamentary Group on the I would like to thank Members from various clubs and circles, from the Left, from the Civic Coalition, the Confederation and the Polish Affairs for their cooperation on these projects, which ultimately brought a set of projects consistent, mutually complementary and today responding to the challenges faced by Polish legislation against people who want to grow hemp or use cannabis in Poland. I would like to say that we are also pleased that, until recently, Mr Sachaiko and Mr PiS have also made their proposals. We were convinced that it would be open to cooperation, to take care not only of the interests of the Law and Justice and of this narrow group to which these projects are addressed, but also of medical marijuana patients. The PiS rapporteur has just referred to this and said that he is against the first reading of the project, which is talking about the possibility of reimbursement of medicines. About the possibility of reimbursement of medicines e.g. for people who have childhood epilepsy. About the possibility of refunding drugs for people who have a glioma of the brain, just as previously mentioned spokesperson SLD Mr. Tomasz Kalita, who died in great suffering or had to buy marijuana illegally because he could not buy it legally at that time. Today, the Polish state under the rule of PiS says: if you have money, you can be relieved, but if you don't have money, you can't be relieved. And very often patients actually do. They either don't have money or they don't have access to medical marijuana because she's just not in drugstores. I go to courts all over Poland. I'm in Krosno at Mr. Richard's 69-year-old trial, who has many diseases and has medical marijuana helping. I'm in Kielce at the trial of a convicted Mr. Darius who has a brain cancer and has been sentenced to two years in prison. I am in Bydgoszcz at the trial of Mr. Marian, who suffers from HIV and who, without medical marijuana, will not be able to function, etc. And all these people have very low pensions, they have low salaries, they can't afford to pay 1000 PLN or 2000 PLN for their therapy, because often these are even monthly rates. You're saying today that the patient can only be the one who can't afford it, and the one who can't afford it is already a criminal. And you say you should reject this project at first reading. That's not what we're saying. As a parliamentary team, we say that cannabis, medical marijuana and recreational marijuana should be dealt with comprehensively, because today's law is ineffective, it is harmful to people, it is based on narcophobia. He doesn't include people in the ability to treat himself, to act for his health. Ladies and gentlemen! Offences related to the use of marijuana, whether medical or cannabis, e.g. As far as farmers are concerned, as my previous speakers have already mentioned, these are paper crimes. We're criminalizing marijuana and cannabis because we're used to it. But who is harmed by a patient who, either for his own use or for the needs of his 19-year-old son with childish cerebral palsy is practicing marijuana in his house on a windowsill? Who cares? I'm asking for an answer. Who cares? Who's the criminal, and who's the victim in this situation? [[The victims of traffic accidents, the perpetrators under the influence... it's outrageous what you say.]] Who cares if a person who is of age uses marijuana for medical purposes? Is it better, as Mr PiS says today, to drive under the influence of alcohol? Today he is available to buy everywhere, basically 100.200 m from every school and every house in Poland, at any time of the day and night, is available (the bell) everywhere, and the state cannot guarantee the patient medical marijuana... [[You'll have those accident victims on your conscience.]] Don't interrupt me. ...and the patient cannot be guaranteed a refund. We must today, if we put it on the table after so many years of fighting for good law for patients, for farmers, stop treating them like criminals. We are talking about Poles and Poles who want to earn money on agriculture, who want to treat themselves with marijuana, who simply want to live in this country. Stop treating people like they're just trying to do some kind of scam again so they can turn things around again. Give them the opportunity to decide about themselves and your health and give them treatment, earning and normal functioning. That is what I am calling for today, especially to you, Mr Sachajko, because you know very well that our solutions meet needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u292	Thank you very much, madam. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u293	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Polska has the honour to present its position on three draft laws: a parliamentary bill amending the law on anti-drugs, a parliamentary draft law on fibrous hemp and a parliamentary bill amending the law on anti-drugs and some other laws. It's a good thing we're talking about this more and more about medical marijuana. Since 2017, it has been possible to use it in Poland, but it is produced by foreign companies. The amendments proposed in the bill prepared by Mr Sachaika or Members of the Left, the Platform or the Confederation are going in the right direction. It is assumed that medical marijuana could be grown in Poland, but only by research institutes, after meeting specific requirements. I don't really understand why research institutes would do this. Any trader, any farmer who has such opportunities and meets all the requirements, should also be able to cultivate such marijuana. Similarly, on the plus side, it should be noted that according to the printing project 1701 prepared by the Parliamentary Panel on. The legalization of Marijuana could be cultivated by Polish entrepreneurs, once the relevant requirements have been met. Both projects create a very necessary change, because so far, companies from abroad make the most money when growing and importing marijuana to Poland for medical purposes. In my speech, I would like to focus in particular on the positives presented in these laws. Firstly, the liberalisation of cannabis rules is an opportunity for additional revenue from the state budget, but this is above all an opportunity for farmers to be able to diversify their income. This is particularly important from our perspective, because the specific nature of cannabis cultivation is quite difficult, and this law allows for modification. Secondly, a major change is the abandonment of regionalisation. At the moment we are dealing with absurdity: it is the Marshal of the voivodship who decides whether hemp will be grown in a given voivodship. In this case, while we are talking about the rules that we are going to put in place central control, these decisions should apply not only to a particular region but also to the whole country. Thirdly, changing registration - by submitting an appropriate form to the NKR - will certainly make it easier for many farmers to take this decision. After the entry into force of the new rules, the farmer will fill in a very simple form on the KOWR pages, while KOWR will take over the registration of the crop and decide whether or not someone can drive it. Another positive feature is the proposal to raise the permitted THC level from 0.2 to 0.3. The hemp is a plant, which, depending on what the sun is and what the soil is, shows different levels of THC. There have been cases where in the case of plants there was an indication of 0,21 THC and the farmer became a large producer of drugs. The aim is to increase the permitted level of THC by 50% so that farmers do not fear that they may be brought before the courts and will have to explain that they are not drug producers and that they are ordinary producers of industrial plants. In the case of a project presented by the Parliamentary Group on The legalization of Marijuana an interesting and worthwhile idea is to supplement the curriculum in medical studies. The idea is for doctors to be aware of the possibility of treating using medical marijuana. Education is always a good option, so it is worth taking care of, especially in the case of a group that is already at the heart of its activity, its mission is to treat the sick and support them with various legal and proven methods. President Kosiniak-Kamysz clearly said a few years ago that as a doctor he is a supporter of the introduction of medicinal marijuana in Poland. He said that if he was to help Polish patients, we had to make it more accessible. I feel the same way as Dr. Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. If medical marijuana, whose registration and breeding will be under the control of the state, will help to treat sick patients and allow many people to relieve pain, then it is worth voting over. It has been raining here many times, that indeed medicinal marijuana must be refunded. It's not like people can't afford it. She will actually allow patients that this suffering, this pain will be less. So this refund must indeed be guaranteed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to thank the parliamentary team. I took part in the last term of office in the work of this parliamentary team and actually worked hard. This is the gloating of all this. Thank you very much to the parliamentarians for finally taking care of this bill. We will indeed support this law. I hope - here I will turn to Mr Sachaika - that these laws will still come to us, and they will not be frozen. Mr Sachaiko, there is indeed a request from you that all three laws be dealt with. It is worth discussing and it is worth to have everything that is best of these laws in Polish law and available to Poles and Poles, people who suffer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u295	Thanks to the generosity of the Bureau, we have 3 minutes in three laws at our disposal, so I will only talk about these two medical marijuana projects. Once again, we're shaking like a cat over a bathtub over a simple subject. Many substances far more dangerous than THC are used in medicines and manufactured for pharmacy in Poland. Many of the wrong dosages could easily kill a person. For some completely incomprehensible reason, the medical use of the natural substance contained in cannabis raises some superstitious fears, as we have seen here, just now. In the previous term of office, after long clashes, it was possible to adopt a law allowing THC for medical applications, which unfortunately was castrated from regulations that would allow the production of cannabis medicines in Poland from its own raw materials. For some completely incomprehensible reason, our parliament prefers to become dependent on imports rather than give money to Polish farmers, Polish producers. For some reason, our government believes that our producers and our farmers have not grown up to such difficult tasks as. Canadian farmers. That's why we have to import our raw materials, and we don't know why, by some two just-right companies who paid GIF's racket. Instead of making our own money, or at least reaping our own crops, we are on some corrupt arrangement. Dry we get from the other side of the world, expensive, irregularly. In the Czech Republic 1 g costs 20 PLN, with us - over 60 PLN. It doesn't make any sense at all. Instead of solving the problem, you've created another and some corrupt, inefficient bureaucratic machine. It's easier and cheaper to get marijuana on the black market right now than legally. Unfortunately, these projects, which we have on the table, instead of decisively cutting this node, are again more or less moving into regulationism, of course, to an uneven degree. Of course, they're both a step forward, but they're still not brave enough. The PiS proposal only allows for the extension of breeding by research institutes, which will in addition be better guarded than a nuclear power plant, because you order every plant to make a radio chip, as if uranium grew just on these bushes. We're in a place where everyone can get a joint in half an hour, and you guys are shaking in this cold like you're keeping a state secret. Don't be ridiculous, really. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, Ha, Ha!]] [[Hold it right there, sir. Those who die on the roads by such bandits, after recreational marijuana...]] The project submitted by the Members of the Left, under which we have signed, is of course much better, incomparably better than this project, but also contains a number of completely unnecessary rules governing the means of securing crops... [[I'll tell you later.]] You don't mind, you're gonna go out on your own, you're gonna say so. ...necessarily regulating e.g. means of securing crops, formalities, even the origin of seed. It also sets the THC limits very carefully. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's really do it as simple as possible, minimum regulations, maximum freedom. Since existing cultivations for scientific purposes are carried out without these provisions, those for medical purposes will also be carried out without them. There's no time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u297	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Medical marijuana - it is worth recalling - brings help to many hard and chronically ill people in Poland. It has been legal since 2017, when this House adopted it by a majority of 440 votes. Make sure you didn't vote sometimes. Then I'd say yes. [[You're on your own.]] Unfortunately, this so-called drug went to Polish pharmacies only two years later. Its price, which is at the moment 65 PLN for 1 g, makes people in need of it, who already have very low income, have to spend about 1,000 for monthly therapy. zł. They just can't afford it. This makes her virtually unavailable, as already pointed out in his speech by the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. The high medical price of marijuana is due to the fact that, as long as it is legal, the national crop is not. Hence the necessity of expensive imports, hence the dramas of the sick, who by compulsion break the law, putting their pockets in the hands of dealers, bringing the work of the police and courts, hence the loss of Polish farmers, who are forbidden by law to produce what apothecaries can legally trade - it is absurd - or worse it exposes them to processes, if two different institutions, and so happens in Poland, i.e. AMRiR and the Police carry out checks on a farmer who raises hemp, fibrous hemp, and the results of this control on one material are extremely divergent, and such a farmer is in trouble with the law. All three of these projects seek to address these problems by proposing different solutions. In line with the new provisions of the European Union's common agricultural policy, this... Excuse me, miss. I'll extend your time. Gentlemen, you're interrupting. I'm asking you very kindly to talk somewhere else or to keep it down. Politely, please. I'm prolonging your time, of course. There you go. Thank you. According to the new provisions of the common EU agricultural policy, they also increase the content of tetrahydrocannabinol in industrial hemp grown in Poland from 0,2% up to 0,3%, with a dose that has a psychoactive effect much higher, so it does not matter in such a range. It is worth remembering that the cultivation of such hemp is much more beneficial for the environment than for other textile raw materials, e.g. cotton. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 welcomes most of the proposed entries in all the printed matter discussed. Projects should be the subject of calm and substantive work in committees in our opinion, especially because of the well-being of chronically ill people as well as Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u298	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz15. I think your voice will be listened to with particular care, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy. That's our wheel's name. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Kukiz Parliamentary Circle15 - Direct Democracy, I have the honour to present a position on the three projects discussed today, two of which concern medical cannabis and one on cannabis. I would like to draw your attention to the House that there is already one project on hemp, which has been prepared by Mr Kukiz15 and the Law and Justice, after first reading and is now on the committee. I hope that, in line with what Mr Lubczyk has called for, we will soon proceed with it, so that this law can be adopted at one of the forthcoming meetings of the Sejm. The hemp is sown with us as humans according to various archaeological studies for more than 10,000. Years. It is one of the first plants domesticated by man. Thanks to cannabis, people could enrich their diet with very easily digestible protein, as well as fats, thanks to cannabis seeds they could dress, they could... In fact, there are even analyses that say that we wouldn't have discovered America if it wasn't for cannabis, because sails, ropes were also made from hemp, because it's extremely durable material. Today, perhaps in a time of well - understood concern for the climate of cannabis, they experience their renaissance. If we look at various types of analyses, hemp is the third in the group of the most cost-effective plants that are currently, for various reasons, among others. because they do not require the use of plant protection products, because they just contain the substances we talked about, THC, CBD and a whole bunch of others, there are hundreds of deterrents of animals, insects, substances that are very, very positive to us, as we have already talked about many times. The cannabis field consumes four times as much carbon dioxide, it has a lot of energy. In this law on hemp, we have ensured that farmers will be able to grow hemp safely for themselves, so that we can return to the tradition which was in Poland, it is 30,000. ha hemp. Unfortunately, there's only 3,000 at the moment. ha hemp. Medical cannabis is also experiencing their renaissance at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like these two laws to be accepted by the High House at one of the forthcoming Sejm meetings. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u300	Thank you very much, Mr Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't complete the name with the words "direct democracy." It won't happen again. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Polish Socialist Party Parliamentary Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u301	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll start with history. The history of the fight for cannabis in the Polish Sejm dates back to 2011. It was in the 7th term of office that, for the first time, this topic appeared here in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Andrzej Dołecki, the head of Free Konopi, who fought here to reach out to politicians with the topic of marijuana or cannabis. It is appropriate to mention Mr Michał Kabaciński, who led these cases and, above all, Ms Marshal Wanda Nowicka, who submitted a draft law in that term. Unfortunately, it didn't work out in that term. It also failed in the next term of office, and today we are talking about some small, small steps, which are of course important, but they do not really solve the whole problem. Because cannabis has been with us for hundreds of thousands of years. Our grandmothers sowed hemp so that mosquitoes wouldn't enter the house. Cannabis was growing under the windows. Everyone knows that. Konopi's been using it for hundreds of years to ease the pain. Cannabis is a plant, it's the same herb as the chamomile, like any other herb we have in our medicine cabinet and which will certainly not hurt anyone. Someone's gonna say cannabis has a psychoactive effect. Okay. We have psychoactive agents all around us. I don't know if you know that tartarak contains a psychoactive agent. No one's ever thought of banning a tartarak before. But who knows? Similarly, a psychoactive agent, a very potent psychoactive agent, is a nutmeg. Luckily, no one's ever thought of banning a nutmeg. [[Voice from the room: Cardamom.]] But there's free access to alcohol and tobacco. Millions of people die from alcohol and tobacco, and nobody cares. No one has died in the world since cannabis, and I don't think anyone will die because medical cases like this don't happen. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a serious subject, because this is a subject that concerns both the economy and social life, but I want to make it clear that this is still an unfinished subject. From the slogan that we preached: plant, smoke, legalize, nothing has been implemented so far and through these laws will not be implemented, but it is an important step towards civilising Poland in this respect. The point is to join all countries that are civilized and where cannabis (the bell) is not criminalized. This is a step in the right direction. A drop digs a rock. The PPS Parliamentary Circle will support those laws that go in the right direction and will at least allow us to legalize medicinal marijuana. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u302	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 19 people have come forward to ask questions. I'm setting 1 minute for the question. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the new parliamentary club... Left. I was gonna say newcomer. There you go. Here you go, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, have a note of nostalgia to remind you that the issue of legalization of medicinal marijuana has been going on for a very long time and it is really high time to civilize and settle this matter. But in connection with the declaration by the Members of the Law and Justice that they will reject the Left projects and support only the proposal tabled by Mr Sachaika, I would like to ask the question to the Member. Namely, if this were to happen, although I hope that this discussion will change the position of the Law and Justice on this matter, but if it were to happen that our projects would be rejected, if you were open to the amendments that we will certainly be submitting to your proposal to extend (the bell) the admissibility of medical marijuana... Will you be able to count on your support in this matter? I would ask very much, and I would also be grateful for the answer to my question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u304	Thank you very much. Actually, I should say, Miss Marshal, thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u305	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Medical marijuana is a world-renowned medical remedy that supports the treatment of many diseases, including epilepsy, psoriasis, insomnia. It helps to correct the side effects of cancer, especially with pain. Other diseases include Parkinson's disease, childhood epilepsy, multiple sclerosis. In my house, my family has cancer patients. As a member of the parliamentary team for the legalization of marijuana and as the daughter of a sick person, I do not understand why medical marijuana cannot be introduced as a medical remedy to help my mother with pain. I don't understand why entrepreneurs, farmers, can't legally grow marijuana that would give them a chance to grow. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm addressing Law and Justice: Let the sick take legal marijuana. I don't bring her in illegally. I wish my mother could use her legally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland. There isn't. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u307	High Izbo! These laws must, of course, be adopted. Bringing cannabis from abroad, when it can be grown equally well in Poland, is simply unreasonable, and in the current state of law they lose cancer patients, they lose farmers. There are problems with the availability of preparations in pharmacies, and it gains literally several foreign companies. So it's just silly and that needs to be changed. But, High Izbo, medical marijuana is just a fraction of the problem. The whole policy on cannabis must be rational, and the police, who are chasing people for a joint in their pockets, instead of fighting serious criminals, is not rational. This is absurd, and this absurdity has to stop. The Together Party is in favour of legal marijuana. We believe that we need to stop with criminalization, which has brought Poland more bad than good. This is a policy that is ineffective, but this is also a policy that is lied to. Ladies and gentlemen of the right hand! You guys know that, don't you? Media Many times they described (the bell) that the smell of marijuana can be felt in the corridors of Polish Television, all of us sitting here in this room, we know that this smell can also be felt in the halls of a seymous hotel. So let's really stop with this insufferable hypocrisy, let's stop with prohibition that just doesn't work. Legal marijuana will be budget receipts, and illegal is a gift for the mob. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski - please - the Civic Coalition. I was so excited about what Mr Zandberg said about these corridors of the hotel. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, sir, it's just for a moment. Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u309	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! A student living in Poznań, if he wants to light a joint and doesn't want to go to jail, he has to go to Berlin. Someone who lives in Cieszyn, if he wants to smoke - maybe, but has to cross the bridge and can only do so on the Czech side. Every year in Poland thousands of people are arrested for possession of grass. Poles and Poles, young and not only, are punished with prison for something that our neighbors do not have, is simply normal. This is completely absurd. Let's educate, support the fight against addiction, fight drug mobs, but not grass that's less harmful than alcohol. Anybody want to light a joint and feel better? You're welcome. Let him smoke. Anybody want to grow hemp and sell it? Cool. The tax will benefit from the Treasury. The responsible government should only support this because it is an opportunity for agriculture and the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Marshal. Today we have a chance to end this absurdity together. So, Minister, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let's live. Plant, smoke, legalize, that's all. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 2018, patients in Poland can legally treat themselves with medical marijuana. However, in practice access to it is practically impossible. This specialty is imported from Canada, so it is often missing in wholesalers, not to mention the price - the gram costs over 65 PLN and the monthly treatment is already over 1000 PLN. It should be borne in mind that for many patients, treatment with marijuana is often the last chance to improve health. The case concerning the cultivation of these hemp in Poland must be resolved, as only the change of the rules in this matter will allow for lower prices for the patient. It will soon be 4 years after the entry into force of the regulations allowing medical treatment of patients with marijuana. Only what of how its availability was so insignificant that the rules created were only (the bell) paper, not the real possibility of treating the sick. I have a question: Why doesn't such a thoughtful draft of the PiS bill accept? Why don't you want to relieve the patients of treatment and therapy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u313	As we have heard, the PiS representative called for the rejection of opposition projects. Therefore, the question. The project presented by Mr Sachaika is completely absent from the problem of setting a minimum THC level in the blood acceptable for drivers of vehicles. Are you even able to accept these provisions? Does this rejection mean you're against it? If so, why? And a question to the government. A representative of the Ministry who referred to the position of the Ministry of Health in parliamentary teams, Mr Jabłoński, mistakenly claimed that our international obligations order us to maintain our current state of affairs. WHO deleted THC from the list of most dangerous substances a long time ago. Therefore, the question of knowledge, about the preparation (Bingle) of a master who could not even properly pronounce the name THC.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Greens. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on fibrous hemp presented today by Ms Urszula Zielińska is a great opportunity for the Polish economy, for Polish agriculture. The Polish hemp industry is growing and in 2025 it can reach PLN 5 billion. The hemp is used in the pharmaceutical, cosmetic, food industry, as well as in the production of clothing or in construction. The Act provides for the liberalisation of rules related to their cultivation, THC level and the catalogue of applications. It can benefit the whole weakened pandemic economy. As we move towards the liberalisation of law and the fight against unnecessary bureaucracy, we have a great chance of creating a strong and important Polish industry in the world. And the conditions for growing hemp are great and we have rich traditions of this cultivation. All we have to do is use it and unlock the potential of our farmers and entrepreneurs. And here I will address my questions to the representatives of the ministries. We heard the position of the Law and Justice Club. I would like to ask the representatives of the ministries if you might change your mind, take into account what the economic benefits of this draft law can bring, as well as the draft law of Mrs Matysiak on medicinal marijuana, you will consider this for the benefit of the people and for the sake of the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was thinking, what would happen if Jarosław Kaczyński smoked a joint once a month or maybe even two once a week. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Perhaps then he would stop harassing Polish civil society. Maybe we'd have more democracy then. [[That would be beautiful.]] So I encourage the President, the Member, your Deputy Prime Minister, to do this kind of shooting. That's one thing. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Secondly, the terrible thing is that you do not want - I am thinking here of the Members and Members of the PiS - to ease the suffering people. Healing marijuana is not evil. That's good. It could even be a Catholic good, if you think about it better. Finally, I would like to mention a very important text. Constitution, Art. 20: The social market economy based on freedom of economic activity, ownership and solidarity, dialogue and cooperation of social partners is the basis of the economic system of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PS to Mr Rozenk. Mr Mak, there's more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very surprised at the motion to reject the two proposals presented today. That is why I have a question for Mrs Paulina Matysiak: How many people can ease access to medical marijuana in Poland? What conditions can it relieve? How many families will have a chance for a better life for their children, their parents, their brothers, their sisters if this medical marijuana is really easier to use? I have a question for Mrs Urszula Zielińska: What are the economic opportunities ahead of Poland if we facilitate the cultivation of fibrous hemp? It is also about environmental issues. Could fibrous hemp help with land remediation, e.g. in Silesia, in an era of energy transformation, when will it be necessary to use the mines? Could remediation using fibrous hemp be an opportunity for Silesia, which could become a hole in fibrous hemp? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing. Really, access to pot in an illegal market is very simple. You can buy it really anywhere. There's no point in banning and criminalising marijuana possession. Whoever wants this joint's gonna work. But why would he do that illegally? Why should he stuff the mob's money and not tax it into the state budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u320	Thank you very much, madam. To be honest, you've made me particularly aware of the phrase "cannabis pits." That's nice. [[Silesian hemp pits.]] I know because I ran from there. There you go, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u321	Mr. Liberty Man! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I am very pleased that we are finally debating draft laws which are substantive, but at the same time very simply written, which introduce positive changes for the economy and even for the ecology, also for patients, which is important. That is why I would also like to thank Ms Ula Zielińska for her preparation with the team. legalization of marijuana law on fibre hemp, which simplifies procedures for the cultivation of industrial hemp, but above all increases the level of THC in crops with 0,2% up to 0.3%. It is very worth emphasising, because it is supposed to be nothing, but it makes life easier for farmers who are now able to lose the grant, the right to grow these plants, even if they exceed by 1 radius the THC content of plants. It is even a fact that we are dealing with opposition projects at all, because it is always worth stressing that the crushing majority of opposition projects are waiting in the seym freezer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, contrary to what a representative of the ruling party has said, I very much hope that, since we have already dealt with this, we will not reject it after the first reading. This can really bring the necessary influence to the economy in today's economic crisis. Let's go in there, work on these projects, follow the punch, talk about recreational marijuana too. And I believe that there will be more and more projects that will be adopted in this Chamber, which will facilitate the lives of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u323	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! When there was a debate about women's right to abortion, Jarosław Kaczyński accidentally threw: But what is it? Anybody wants to do this, they're gonna do it, 'cause they're gonna leave. And it's the same in this case. Cynicism and PiS hypocrisy. As usual. The rich guy buys this drug for this 1000 zloty or buys it on the black market, and he's gonna make it too. But in Poland, as we know, 2 million people live below the poverty line. They, when they suffer from cancer or multiple sclerosis, will not buy, will not spend 1000 PLN per month on this drug. Should all who are against the refund of the medicine, medical marijuana, have glioma to open their heads? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or are you looking for a Meiza-type solution? After all, yesterday Kamil Bortniczuk said that he was a young Polish businessman looking for business paths. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I am very surprised by the government, which, with the stubbornness of a better case, seems to approach the possibility of producing marijuana in Poland, which could be used for medical purposes. I think that there is very broad public agreement that in very difficult, suffering-related situations, this type of therapy is generally accepted and is not a bad thing. She's being used today. The problem is, it's very expensive. And the question, Minister: Why have you not taken such action before and presented to Parliament solutions which would allow the costs of this therapy to be reduced, namely production in Poland, on the spot? And second question: How do you intend to respond to the need that exists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u327	Thank you very much. Minister! Ministers! Many things are already regulated by law. I'll be answering all these questions in a minute. But I'd like to take the opportunity that we have the Minister of Health to ask for a regulation. We allow farmers in the majesty of law to grow hemp, significantly improving it. At the same time, we have some ridiculous regulation that says that there can be no THC in food products. There are trace amounts of THC, and if the health department or any institution finds it in THC's food, it withdraws the food. So you can actually say you can, but if you want to, every producer can go bankrupt. I have been talking to the Ministry of Health for several months about this regulation, whether it has already been prepared so that Polish entrepreneurs can (the bell) use cannabis in food products, without fear that they would become one thousandths. THC will find and the product will go to the dumpster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Paulina Matysiak simply expressed her intention, which guides the applicants to the laws contained in prints 1700 and 1701. It's not about the treatment of the sick, it's not about the situation of the farmers and the possibility of giving them some extra form of pay. It's about marijuana so-called. Recreational because it's such a euphemism. This is a euphemism that is intended to replace a hard reality, namely the responsibility that people under the influence of marijuana cause fatal accidents, very numerous, very numerous fatal accidents, first of all. [[Give me the data! Give me the data!]] Secondly, the effects of the use of marijuana on depression, suicide attempts are examined. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Applicants take moral responsibility for these accidents, for the victims of death, for the suffering of families, for the suffering of students who fall into this habit and attempt suicide, who often lose their chances of life. You take responsibility for this. It is an outrage at all that there is a Parliamentary Parliamentary Team in the Sejm. Marijuana legalization. Because the same people in this team are also in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, setting an example for young people. It's just something extraordinary. This team, Mr. Marshal, should be deployed. Thank you very much. [[Delegalize recreational alcohol or recreational cigarettes.]] [[Voice from the room: Delegate yourself!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u330	I think that the Sejm is a place where different views are presented and we listen to them whether we agree or disagree with them. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you must all acknowledge here that the proposals put forward by the representative of the applicants, Mr Sachaika, are a milestone, just as the milestone was the adoption in 2017 of the law by most of the right-wing parliament. It is clear to me that the cultivation must be carried out under strict control and hence my questions to the Minister: Does the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants have the potential, knowledge, infrastructure for farming possibly or in a short time can this infrastructure complement this or another institute? Were estimates made, what is the need for raw material? Will they be able to supply pharmacies instead of most of the German raw materials? Therefore, can we (the bell) count on price reductions in pharmacies for people who are prescribed medical marijuana? And one more note. about this business and the hemp industry: Maybe we should not make Afghanistan or Pakistan from Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I have a heartfelt request to the Member of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, Mr Dolata. If you could please your friends from the PiS, the Members, do not disturb them, they would be very grateful to you. You know, I just care about Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and I wish you wouldn't bother them because they're worried, they're crying, and there's a problem. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I come from this generation when you could grow hemp when there were even seed harvesting machines. And these hemp crops were grown for a completely different purpose than I hear here. Of course, the fiber did, but there were two other basic goals. First of all, it was a weeding plant, which is perfectly capable of weeding, because the fact that it grows on the news, this is a completely different issue, are better plants. And the second thing is to scare off certain pests, except I wouldn't advise cannabis to plant under the window, because, first of all, it's a threat to humans, and besides, it's a threat to animals that may occur around this window (the bell). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u334	Thank you very much. It's a nice story about this pest scaring thing, I think I'm gonna sow something. [[White cabbage, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a very good bill, and from this point on I would like to thank Mr Sachaiko for this bill, for his courage in presenting this law. I am convinced that this law will allow cannabis to be, you can say, much more accessible, or actually their price will be reduced. About this very often here the state You said that today it's just too expensive a drug, and that's why we have to do something about it. I am convinced that, ladies and gentlemen, this is really not as much a milestone as you would expect, but please understand: (The bell) many of us are convinced that this crop must be under supervision and the best place are these institutes. I hope that next year we will meet back, we will examine very strongly how this has affected prices and accessibility for patients. This is what I wish for, and for this I thank you very much, Mr President, once again, for having taken such an initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u336	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u337	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I stand here on behalf of families of people who have been in bed for 10 years, for 5 years, people who do not get up, people who have trouble moving and medical marijuana help them at least normally drink a cup of tea, not through a straw, because there are moments in their lives. I ask you to lean over this bill. What do you propose in return if you reject it at the moment? Do you have to give these people 100 g of vodka? Do you need to give them any other alcohol or drugs? What's in return? A year for someone who's in bed and needs this help is so long that you can't even imagine it. I know this isn't your electorate because they don't go to the election because they just don't leave the house. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So consider the situation of these families. As a rule, they are on social pensions because if someone gets sick at a very young age, even their internship has not worked, and they are sick of it - specifically I am talking about multiple sclerosis - several decades. So that I ask you to accept this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u338	Thank you very much. We've finished the questions, and now we're gonna ask for answers. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski. Minister, I invite you very, very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u339	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this discussion. There weren't many questions to the Ministry of Health. The main direction of the questions is the price, which is very high. This law may reduce the price and increase the availability of this medicinal product for patients. Of course, we agree with this, and that is why we believe that this direction is right. Production in Poland, cultivation in Poland, cultivation in institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, very heavily controlled. Later, if the raw material is significantly cheaper - and we estimate that it will really be a very high difference - then I hope that then we will also be able to produce a pharmaceutical drug from this raw material. Then there is also the possibility of even refunding or possibly creating a drug program for very specific groups of patients who may need it. So that we're happy about it, with this proposal. Of course, we see that there is convergence in some areas with regard to this law. Increasing the limit to 0,3 - that is also in every scope of this proposed law. So it's about this range. We think the price will actually fall a lot. With regard to Mr Sachaika's question about the regulation, the amendment of the regulation concerning the amount of THC in food, we are at the final stage of the international review of what it looks like in individual countries, what the THC and CBD limit values are. On the basis of this, we will possibly be preparing a draft amendment to this regulation. Of course, there were also a lot of questions about whether cars can normally be driven after these measures - and this is the text of the law - about why we prohibit it. Why? After all, people ride vodka, they have three booze shots. That means that you can, too, after these measures. I was gonna say we have Sativex's drug registered. It is clearly written that you should not drive cars and machines that this product may cause side effects, dizziness, drowsiness. Therefore, one way or another a person, knowing that he can't drive a car, shouldn't do it anyway. So there's no reason to do that. Actually, it was just those questions. Thank you for the fact that Mr Sachaiko, President of the subcommittee on Bioeconomy and innovation, co-operated with the Ministry of Health in the preparation of this law and that we were able to cooperate with the subordinate institutions, the chief pharmaceutical inspector, during the work of the subcommittee. We believe that we have ensured the safety of crops in this area and that this cultivation will therefore be possible. Of course, what is important, I am speaking today as a representative of the Ministry of Health, because there is not yet a position of the Council of Ministers to this day, but in this respect, as I said, we have worked together and we agree that this law introduces many beneficial elements. It is mainly about the price availability of the product and certainly in this respect. That's gonna change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u340	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Minister Anna Gembicka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address issues that remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. As regards the question of whether the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants has the appropriate capacity to carry out the tasks set out in the Act, the Institute has as much potential as possible scientific preparation, infrastructure and, of course, area availability. We as the resort will certainly monitor this so that all expectations of the institute are duly met by the institute. As regards the issue of direct payments, I would like to correct here, because you argued that in Poland there is a strict requirement for a 0.2% indicator. This is apparent, ma'am, from the EU Regulation. It is not that each Member State in the case of subsidies - because of course we are talking about situations where a farmer can receive a aid for hemp - determines this indicator on his own. It should be pointed out that from next year, together with the reform of the common agricultural policy, the EU regulation is changing in this respect, and in fact these subsidies will be paid from a concentration of 0,3%. THC, i.e. it can be said that these laws respond to changes in EU law that will apply from next year. With regard to Mrs Zielińska's proposal, which has largely referred to agricultural issues, we consider that part of the proposals that have been put forward there are those which could contribute to the development of hemp crops in Poland. These are proposals for abandoning the annual distribution of crops or extending the list of objectives and needs for which fibrous hemp can be grown. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that similar changes are already being examined in the framework of a project, which is already after first reading in the Committee on Agriculture and provides for such solutions. In addition, it takes into account what we stress very strongly, responding to the many comments of growers, that the current crop monitoring system requires changes that will make this system more friendly and flexible. Such arrangements would include, for example, a register which will cover all market participants in the cultivation and procurement of fibre hemp. And it is in the Print Act No 1611 that such solutions are proposed. It proposes the creation of a register kept by the National Agricultural Support Centre. We have solutions to improve, speed up the whole procedure, abolishing the zoning, and extending the list of objectives and needs for which fibrous hemp can be grown. In conclusion, with regard to the solutions that facilitate and simplify these procedures, we believe that they can contribute to the development of the market, and I encourage all those concerned to take part in the work on this project, which is already being carried out in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the representatives of the applicants. We will start with Mr Jarosław Sachaika, because that was the order at the beginning. Please, Mr Sachajko, Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! I will want to answer briefly most of the substantive questions that have been raised during the debate. Unfortunately, there was a lot of emotion, a lot of untruths. Don't be, don't be. Marshal Wanda Nowicka asked if there was an opening for amendments and an extension of availability. Absolutely. This law has been created for many years, I have worked on it for many years, as the Minister mentioned, also in the Committee on Bioeconomy and Innovation, and all amendments have always been taken into account. That's why this is the final form of this bill. Mrs Monica Falej talked about having a sick person, and in very emotional words she asked why cannabis could not be introduced. Member, it is either the ignorance of the law or the evil will, because your family member can legally buy them in Poland. Thanks to Kukiz15 and the Law and Justice in the last term, we have adopted a law which states that cannabis can be legally used for treatment. You can legally buy these cannabiss at the pharmacy. The problem raised concerns price and availability. That's why there's this bill to... I have pointed out, as you have heard very carefully, in my speech as an applicant, a representative of Members, that the Institute has ensured that this production will be at a low, acceptable price and will be available at all times. This led to this law and thank you very much, Minister Annie Gembicka, for this declaration that she will also watch over the institute, that it will already be preparing to grow on a large scale, so that these cannabiss will soon be there. Maybe one at a time. I'm gonna find that statement about... Although I might say right away, because it's often said, "Why shouldn't you? ' And people need it! That's what people need when they're sick, now, and not here, trying to say emotionally that someone's gonna grow on a window window window in a pot. Yeah, he'll grow, maybe grow, only in four or five months, and he needs that medicine now. That's why the institute, hopefully soon, will be producing... Not until someone finds out he's sick and looks for where to find one or two grains and raises himself. It's not the availability patients are waiting for. And as for the farmers, you also asked about them. We're talking about the drug, and if we're talking about the drug, we're talking about HACCAP, about the whole manufacturing process of the drug, not the drugs. Farmers specialize in mass food production and are addressed by the law on hemp and KOWR and there are all the facilitations that we have been talking about for years and it will come into force. Mr Adrian Zandberg spoke about accessibility, as I have already said. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek spoke about breeding. After all, breeding is solved because this law solves the problem of breeding in Poland. It would be in Poland in institutes subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture. Let me remind you once again that it is thanks to the initiative of Members of Kukiz15 and Members of Law and Justice that we have medical cannabis available in Poland. You, for a few years, seem to me, represent a group that has ruled for eight years, and Mr Rozenek has told us this story, and nothing could be done. I hope, however, that our citizens will see that thanks to the Kukiz-15 and the Law and Justice Members, something could not have been done before for so long. Everyone tried, tried, couldn't. At the moment, it turns out you can do it. There was Mrs. Margaret Navel's emotional speech again, but I think that's what she often tries to do. Why not relieve the sick? That's what the bill was for four years ago to relieve the sick. Now we are trying very quickly to resolve the issue of availability and price. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz asked about blood levels and driving. That's the subject... Like I said, cannabis is my sixth year in Parliament. I have met with many of the environments that have called for regulation of this availability, and in fact no one has proposed a reasonable, rational solution. The Minister has already mentioned this. This is a plant composed of hundreds or maybe thousands of substances. An example of Sativex, where scientific studies were conducted on the availability of the drug, where there are two substances, not the hundreds we talked about. According to these studies, there is, however, an impact on the perception and psychomotor abilities. I hope that any level of this THC can be determined, possibly by assessing the individual's psychomotor abilities. In American films we often see such studies that someone is to go straight on the designated line, to do this proverbial swallow that we still know from elementary school, or to touch the nose, but here we need research. We should not risk the lives of patients and, above all, other road users. I hope there are people who can help us solve this problem. Mrs. Margaret Tracz talked about huge potential profits. Of course, those profits are. I've even seen such estimates that if we freed up the cannabis market, it's going to be 1 and 2%. GDP. It's giant money, and that's what these laws are for, to benefit from it. But as I said in my first speech as a Member, a representative of the Members of the applicants, a politician should look long-term at what will happen. This example, to which the MEP today, Mr Miller, praises that in the time of the Left, excise duty on alcohol was reduced and there was a significant or 30% impact on the budget... That's what happened. You just have to watch. on the other side of the medal, because at the moment we cannot control the problem of alcoholism and spend almost twice as much on treating its effects. Let's not look at one side of the coin. You always have to look at two sides of the coin. Of course, alcohol cannot be compared to cannabis. These are completely different substances. Alcohol degrades families and the economy. It is better to do things slowly, but to do them at all, rather than to try to fight the pathologies that arise, as I said, in the case of alcoholism. I'm moving fast because I'm running out of time. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski Again in theatrical style, he asked why we did not want to ease people's suffering. He has been able to do this for four years. Really, let's not show emotion where they're not supposed to be. Medical hemp is available in pharmacies. That's what I'm saying to everyone who's watching. Any doctor can prescribe them. I invite you to visit my family doctors or specialists. They actually write prescriptions if necessary. They're gonna prescribe these meds right now. My wife's a doctor and she's using it. The doctors are using it. If you have a family doctor who doesn't want to write a prescription because he hasn't learned, then change the doctor. He shouldn't be your family doctor. Mrs Monica Rosa spoke about opportunities for the economy. Like I said, chances are gigantic. We use them as Poland. We want to be a leader. Hence my cooperation with the Ministry of Health. I'd like us to be a leader in the food industry as well. At the moment the Polish market is flooded with cannabis seed from outside our borders. This is ridiculous. Let's hope it doesn't go on like this. Mrs Klaudia Jachira spoke about increasing the THC level from 0.2 to 0.3. It's about adopting a bill. This bill is already after the first reading. We need to know what laws are in parliament. It is important to know that the law made by Kukiz.15 and Law and Justice is already after the first reading. In the Act there is a provision for increasing the THC level from 0,2 to 0,3. I talked about this in my speech, but you must have passed it. Mrs Prokop-Paczkowska said - I think it is a slip - that we have 2 billion sick people in Poland. There's a lot less of them. I think it was about millions. There was also talk of the high costs that patients are currently suffering if they want to treat themselves with medical cannabis. That's what I've been talking about. The question of refund remains. Every now and then we hear that some drug needs to be refunded and it needs to be available. On the other hand, when it comes to increasing the health contribution, many irresponsible Members, I must say so, he says: no, you must not increase the contribution. So what kind of money are we supposed to do this? Who's gonna take the money? I'd ask you to tell me if we're supposed to take it away from the teachers or if we're going to take it away from the military. Who's gonna take the money? This budget is like a home budget - it's limited. The state doesn't have any money. The money in the budget comes from contributions that are collected. I'd like medical cannabis to be refunded, but every now and then we hear about fundraisers for life-saving drugs. I hope the Ministry is constantly monitoring what drugs should be in the refund basket. I'd like cannabis to appear there, too, but let's get to it without emotion. There are cancer medications that we do not yet have in Poland because we do not have money for their reimbursement. Mr Mirosław Suchoń spoke about illness, suffering, therapy. I repeat, therapy is available. All doctors can prescribe cannabis using a law that was adopted four years ago. We will also produce them in Poland. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski asked the Minister about the institute and its possibilities. The Minister replied - I hold the Minister's word - that the institute will be prepared for the production of cannabis for large-scale medical purposes. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski recalled a beautiful story. Maybe the people watching us will find and remember where these machines are. Those machines were really specialized. Specialized machinery is needed for hemp cultivation. Unfortunately, we've lost that knowledge. We have institutes subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture, which should develop specialized machinery for the harvesting and processing of hemp. Mrs Anna April asked about availability and price. It's a thing that's very much in my heart. I hope that we will soon see that availability will increase significantly and prices will be lower. 65 or 70 PLN for 1 g is a barrage price. Unfortunately, it has to be said. Patients use this every day in large quantities. There is an example that I think Mr Dobromir Sosnierz referred to. The point is that in the Czech Republic it costs 20 PLN. Look what the big difference is. Let's hope there's a price for that too. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska again spoke emotionally about families who are lying, unable to use it and drink through a straw. The seriousness of this House requires that we not comment on this irresponsible statement. The hemp is available. [[But it wasn't a joke.]] And right now, we can benefit from their benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u344	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Ursula Zielińska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these valuable comments and questions, because I have the impression that despite some emotions, however, the discussion was quite substantive and calm and actually most of you were referring to the merits of the case and thank you for that. Thank you very much for asking Monika Rosa about the economic potential of fibrous hemp. I would like to point out that I was talking about economic potential, for example. only the CBD product market itself, and this is only one of the product groups using fibre hemp. This potential is estimated at PLN 5 billion by 2025. Counting quickly, it is almost a billion zlotys of influence on the State Treasury and VAT, and with CIT tax. Mr Sachajko also spoke about influences of up to 1 to 2% GDP. And it is very right, because the potential of implementing this law is much greater than only CBD products, because from now on the Anti-drugs Act allows only a very narrow catalogue of applications for fibrous hemp. And what he doesn't allow is for example. energy applications. And this is what the Research Institute of Poznań pointed out to us. And here, I want to tell you, as far as energy use is concerned, the potential is enormous. Biogas, the potential for agricultural biogas in Poland at 31TWh, which would be 18% current electricity production in Poland. 18% electricity production, energy demand in Poland from agricultural biogas. Such huge is the potential and fibrous hemp for this production are suitable. I would also like to thank Mrs Monica Rosie for the beautiful idea of Silesian fibre cannabis - and very accurate, because fibrous hemp has remedial properties and supports the restoration of degraded soils. So this is a very interesting idea and real potential, I think, of this new or old-new agricultural field for Silesia transformation. I hope that such projects for the cultivation of fibrous hemp in Silesia and other post-production regions, coal, will go to local, territorial plans for fair transformation. I'm counting on it. I would also like to thank you for your words of support to many ladies and gentlemen from most clubs. I have the impression that even the Members of the PiS have also expressed their positive views on these solutions in the majority. I am pleased that you see the need to amend the rules, including the need to simplify them, to simplify registration; to take pictures of the investment and personal risks that farmers are facing today; to decriminalise even a small exceedance 0,2% THC level is very important for those who grow today and in the future want to grow fibrous hemp in Poland; extension of the catalogue of applications. Thank you very much to Minister Gembicka for her words of support for some of the printing solutions 1700. Thank you very much. And for saying that certain solutions, and I hope that it is for Mr Dolata that there are also words of calming, that some of these solutions from print No. 1700 come out to the producers, they come out to farmers. And I am very pleased that they are already in the study, in government projects, including printing project no. 1611. Mr Dolata of the Law and Justice Club doubted the true intentions of the projects in print 1700 and 1701, fearing that we are trying to introduce recreational marijuana into the country through the back door. [[It's been said.]] Mr. Speaker! I want to reassure you, but I also want to tell you what the reality is. Recreational marijuana in Poland is already there. [[It's poison.]] She's already here, on the black market, without any quality control, without any control of this market. Such a situation exposes young people to the acquisition and consumption of products of which neither they nor their parents have any idea as to their quality and risks health and life. [[We need to protect the youth.]] So control of this market is also very important here. In all three projects that came out of the cooperation of the parliamentary team that I am and I have the honour to be a member. However, I would like to stress that the 1700 printing project is just a project on fibrous hemp. It is a plant without any psychoactive activity - nor at the currently authorised value 0,2% The THC, or at the value proposed by us in line with what it proposed, has accepted the European Parliament, i.e. 0,3% THC. At any of these levels, it's not a psychoactive agent. So that this is a historical plant in which Poland has specialized for centuries. Let's work to get back to this level and get back to this specialization, because it was an important field in Polish agriculture. So that I appeal to you, also your Members of the Law and Justice, to lean on these two projects, because they are good. And they are today Poland and farmers, and the economy, and patients very much needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u346	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the parliamentary club... Yeah, what kind of parliamentary club is it? Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u347	The best, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to these questions and also to the words that appeared in the discussion, I will start by saying that I am really very disappointed that the Law and Justice Club wants to reject two good projects at first reading that it does not want to work on them, that it does not want to discuss them in committee. I think the most interesting thing here is that Mr Szulowski, who was a representative of the PiS, who presented the opinion of this club, the same solutions are pleased with the project prepared by Mr Sachajka, but they disgust him deeply when they are either in a project presented by Mrs Zielińska or in a project presented by me. And in order not to be literal here, I will give you an example of Mrs. Uli Zielińska's project: changing the definition of fibrous hemp. Mr Szulowski! Forgive me, this change is in the draft by Mr Sachaika and in the draft by Mrs Zielińska. The same applies to the solutions that are included in the Sachaika project and in the project that I presented. Mr Sachajko, I have this feeling, it is, I think, open to cooperation and I hope that we will be able to work out the best solutions together, the best solutions from the perspective of mostly Polish patients who use medical marijuana. And now I'm gonna say yes. As for what Mr Sachaika's project does not have, I can honestly say that I don't know what the Law and Justice Club is really afraid of either. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you afraid of? The fact that more needy people are gonna get treatment for marijuana? Is that what you're afraid of? Or are you afraid that the state will help those who can't afford treatment right now? Or are you afraid that Polish farmers will be able to make money on exports? Or are you afraid that doctors and pharmacists will get the right knowledge in college? I don't know, I didn't hear it in your speeches, but I'll be brief: there's nothing to be afraid of here, because you just have to help Polish patients. As to the questions raised during the debate, Mrs Rosa asked about what diseases, what diseases, how many people, how many people can be in Poland, which can help medical therapy with marijuana. I'll refer to the data, the statistics for last year. Last year, for the first three quarters - over 9 thousand. patients and more than 28,000. Prescriptions issued. Let us remember this - I spoke about it in my speech - that for such treatment, for medical treatment of marijuana at this moment in Poland can really afford really wealthy people. If the cost of this treatment is at least $1,000. PLN per month, it's really many Poles, many Poles do not have real access to this therapy. Of course, we know that medical marijuana is available, you can get a prescription, but really whether it can go to Polish patients or can go to people in need, decides who and how many people can afford it. And this particular aspect here cannot be ignored. As for the further answer to this question by Mrs Rosa, I would like to say that the use of therapeutic medical marijuana is among others. - here I will refer only to those diseases where it is best documented - the relief of chronic pain, is the mitigation of antiemetic effects in oncology patients who undergo chemotherapy, is the relief of muscle spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, miss. Ladies and gentlemen, hello, hello, I'm here. I'm talking to you. I have a heartfelt request for you not to disturb me, okay? I think you'd want the same thing as you would say. I'm asking you, aren't I? Thank you very much. There you go. Thank you, Marshal. In turn, I answer the question that Mr Dolata asked. It seems to me that Mr Dolata simply listened very carefully to the speeches that they presented, and justified the projects that we are debating today. [[Very carefully.]] That bill I presented doesn't apply to recreational marijuana. I said it straight. I'd like you to question yourself one more time. My personal belief in whether recreational marijuana should be legal does not affect the effects of the entry into force of our proposed legislation. But one more very important thing, because there was a lot of screaming about a moral scandal here. I am really waiting for you to submit a bill in this House, for example. It will prohibit the sale of alcohol at gas stations. [[In the Seym.]] What's more, if we get into your rhetoric, if you don't fight for the full delegalization of alcohol, you're personally responsible for every drunken accident. Excuse me, sir, your shouting from the platform was quite ridiculous. Mrs April asked for the supervision of crops, and I fully agree with Mrs April here. Yes, I'm also convinced that crops must be supervised. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, exactly such records, such solutions are in print project 1701, in the project I presented. Finally, I would also like to appeal to the Law and Justice Club. I hope you will change your mind that you will not reject these two projects... [[We will.]] ...which were presented here, concerning medical marijuana, which is to continue to help Polish patients, including this project presented by Mrs Zielińska. Finally, I would also like to point out that the ability to compromise is a feature of mature democracy, and particularly important in this case, when there is a really modest majority in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u348	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction, contained in print No. 1699, to the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1700 and 1701 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 17 when we start voting. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 53 hours 17 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees... [[Your Marshal...]] We're having some problems with a few readers, but we're not going to vote yet. Take it easy, gentlemen. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, in print No 1929. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. Are the scanners working yet? Yes? Good. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a wonderful time to share the good, you are loved - these are the last words of the murdered 3 years ago sleep. Paul Adamowicz. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] These are words that we should all bear in mind today, but first of all, it must be emphasized that, despite sending the indictment to the court, the co-responsible people for this death have not been accounted for. I have a great appeal to change the language of the public debate, but above all... [[Long-term applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooo... ((The bell)]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Boris!]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, this is the time when reflection should take place... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] ...because, unfortunately, nothing's changed since then. [[Long-term applause]] Thank you very much, sir, really. Sir, please... Marshal, let me finish. But I'm asking for a formal motion. Time's up, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know exactly what led to this tragic death. That's why I have a big appeal. I have a big appeal to you personally. You can stop it. Change the person who runs this hate industry. Do it. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u350	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u351	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since yesterday, as the Polish People's Party, the Coalition of Poland has been trying to obtain from the PiS club, from government ministers the answer to the question of what you have to offer farmers and farmers within the framework of the anti-inflationary shield. I didn't get an answer from my fellow Members, I didn't get it from the ministers. Mr. President, why don't you tell me what will bring down VAT on a farm that doesn't pay VAT. Mr. President, such a simple question. [[But in what mode, Marshal?]] It is a shame and confirmation that you do not know each other at all on the meansdrach of functioning of Polish farms. The matter will soon become a much further issue, not only the problem of farmers, because expensive fertilizer will turn out to be expensive vegetables, expensive fruits, expensive bread, bread, and then, as you continue to minimize this topic, you will have a problem. It will not be (the bell) the problem of farmers, but of all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u352	Thank you, sir. Of course, it's not a formal conclusion. I wanted to ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, Mr Konrad Berkowicz and Mr Krzysztof Bosak to wear masks. [[Applause]] I would like to ask Members to wear masks. I address Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr Konrad Berkowicz. I'm gonna ask you to put on your masks again. Members, I state that you do not comply with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm on special order arrangements for the sitting of the Sejm, you are in violation of order. I'm asking you to put on your masks. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Have you done this before?]] [[Now I'm putting it together.]] Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr Konrad Berkowicz, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Seym I call you to order. Put on the masks, please. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Why didn't you give it to me earlier?]] Mr Grzegorz Braun is here. So, sir, I ask you to put on a mask. On the basis of art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. Once again, please put on your mask. Mr Grzegorz Braun. Mr President, you are still preventing the proceedings from taking place. On the basis of art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] In accordance with the rules of procedure, leave the sitting room. [[Voice from the room: I suggest you check all these left certificates.]] Mr President, I am not a doctor. And I don't have the authority to check whether or not the doctor who signed it did it legally. If you have such authority, do so. I would like to ask Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday for a formal proposal. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u353	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A wall behind a Polish uniform. When did you chant this in this courtroom? More than two months ago. [[We were chanting together.]] And then the people who wear those uniforms, you forgot. The border is now minus 15 degrees, and the soldiers sleep eight people in tents, exchanging with those who were lucky enough to find a bed in the container. There's ice on the mattresses in these tents. I didn't believe it when I got those pictures, but it's true. There's just ice on the mattresses. During the day, soldiers are nesting in nothing but buildings, without tents, without Hesco sets, without any normal protection. That's why it's time for you to confront that knowledge. It's time for someone to tell you to your face: take care of the soldiers at the border. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Rainbow blankets...]] I am applying for a recess so that the Prime Minister can give us an explanation on this appalling matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u354	Thank you. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Raise your hand for people who don't work? 441 Members voted. 216 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Please, Mr Michal Urbaniak with a formal proposal, the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am requesting that the session be postponed and that the Senior Convention be convened in order to call on the Minister of Agriculture to present the situation in the maritime fisheries sector. In particular, it is about informing the High House of how aid measures have been allocated to fishermen subject to fishing bans imposed by the European Commission. Today, protests are held in Gdansk Pomerania and Western Pomerania, the main organizer of which is the Crisis Staff - Polish Coastal Fisheries. They are linked to the alleged irregularities in the spending of EU funds. So I call on the Minister to explain this to us. The participants also call for the Minister to meet with them. In addition, fishermen from the Vistula Bay continue to remind that zone S-9 has not been unlocked for them despite the six-month expectation and despite the promise that they will finally be able to use it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u356	Thank you. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 204 - for, 225 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, with a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister Morawiecki! Prime Minister Glinski! Prime Minister Kaczyński! Prime Minister Sasin! Mr. Prime Minister Kowalczyk! Mr. Marshal Terlecki! Marshal Witek! [[Name me.]] I call on the law and justice authorities to take a decision they are delaying and with which they agree. The point is for you to decide to submit to the session and vote the mandatory vaccination bill, the vaccination obligation, which gives us the chance to get out of this pandemic with fewer coffins, death, family tragedies. Dear Leadership of Law and Justice! Today it is up to you, not to Minister Niedzielski, what will be the future of the pandemic we are fighting. The responsibility we bear is that this tragedy is still affecting us. [[The conclusion...]] According to Minister Niedzielski, hospitals will soon be so clogged that doctors will decide who to treat, who not. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The opposite.]] Let us make sure that this responsibility is on the safety side, not on the death side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u358	Thank you. It's against the law. You're welcome, Your Honor, to the contrary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we all wish that the fact is that vaccinations will solve the COVID-19 case, but they don't solve it. We see that in countries where there are up to 80%, 90% there are record records for infections. [[Voice from the hall: But not death, do not lie.]] We can see that the health system is not functioning. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Yeah, we'd all like that to be the solution to the problem, but it's not working right now. Lockdowns don't work and there's no forced vaccinations that the Left wants. [[That's not true!]] Despite what the Platform claims, what the Left claims, what the Holovnia claims. Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that Polish health care should finally be open, start treating normally, treat COVID as any other disease. That way, we would have avoided excessive deaths. The proposal for a Law (Bell) of Members of the Confederation and parts of Members of the PiS Stop sanitary segregation should be examined. [[Applause]] [[So you're his hostage, not just Ziobra's.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u360	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Kowalski, the Law and Justice. There you go. [[Was that a formal conclusion?]] No. As before, Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Then why was the voice against it?]] Because it was a vote against the formal motion your colleague submitted. [[But it wasn't a motion...]] It was submitted as a formal proposal, so this Member had the right to make an application contrary to the proposal, which is still not formal, like you, Mr President, and yet I have allowed you to speak. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the appeal of the Polish People's Party, one can ask where you were yesterday, when Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin presented why gas prices and electricity prices are rising. [[Game in the O.R.]] He talked about the EU's cost, he talked about the policy of the European People's Party. [[That's not a conclusion.]] I want to make it clear, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, that the Polish People's Party is a member of the European People's Party. We say, "I'm checking." Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki made it clear: if you support Nord Stream 2, you are in the European People's Party. If you support high electricity prices, you are in the European People's Party. If you want to break up with this EU cost, step out of the European People's Party. Not words, but deeds, Mr. Krzysztof Paszik. It is worth to come and support the Polish government in the fight for low energy prices. And yesterday the jury and the Platforms, and the PSL were empty when Mr Sasin presented a report on how high the energy prices are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] On 9 December, you voted against the position of the Polish government in the fight for low energy prices, so you have no mandate to lecture us today. Get out of the European People's Party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u362	Thank you, sir. This concludes our formal proposals. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki asked for the floor. You're welcome. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mrs Marshal, counterclaim.]] Prime Minister, just a moment, because we have an objection. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been saying bullshit and bullshit for months. You've brought chaos to Poland. You have the biggest increases in your government, the highest inflation, the biggest increase in energy and gas prices. We expect you to apologize - Mr Kowalski, especially for Prime Minister Pawlak, for Prime Minister Tusk, [[Applause]] Because when we negotiated a gas contract, it's PGNiG by 10%. It's reduced the price of gas. These were fixed prices, it was predictability for Polish farms, and today Polish entrepreneurs pay by 500% More for the gas. [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] The inept, ineffective, false rule of the PS must end. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u364	Thank you very much, but we will no longer discuss it. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Liar, liar.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our formal proposals. The President of the Council of Ministers asked for the floor. [[Convicted of lying.]] You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make this very clear at first. [[How did you advise?]] [[Voice from the hall: Will the wife's plot be?]] You, Members of the Civic Platform, will do everything you can to defend the Brussels elites of Warsaw's salons. And that's your policy. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[You're a member of the European Council.]] [[Voice from the room: Banker.]] Meanwhile, we mainly think about all Polish matters, because we have Polish responsibilities and work for Poland. And when will you understand that for us the resident of Augustów or Siedlec or Przasnysz, Zielona Góra or any other place in Poland is more important than the judge of the Luxembourg tribunal? [[Especially the Green Mountain Mass.]] When will you understand? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] In this spirit, High Izbo, I would like to present a few sentences in the context of the anti-inflationary shield of the Polish Load, because there was a lot of deception here. When we planned this whole program, we knew perfectly well that it would be under fire, but we didn't think it would be voices so full of hypocrisy, so full of... [[To a bowl of rice.]] [[What about last year's share so you don't pay taxes?]] Mr President, please don't shout from the Parliamentary benches, okay? ...lies, lies, and manipulations like those that fall today from the Civic Platform. [[Where am I supposed to shout? We have the COVID Sejm and there is no way to speak.]] You are silent now, sir. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, You don't have a voice. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm just gonna say it in a minute. I'm gonna prove it. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a really significant global crisis, an inflation crisis, a post-pandemic economic crisis. [[300% increase in gas.]] Weak politicians are looking for excuses, responsible politicians are looking for solutions. And we have found and implemented these solutions consistently. [[Applause]] You're trying to create a smoke screen. I'll try to break through this smokescreen and show you the reality of a family like 2+2 - parents with two children. [[Your family. Why don't we talk about your wife and your share?]] [[Voice from the room: What will you cover it with?]] In the case of such a family, our reduction in VAT on food to zero means about PLN 53 monthly profit. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Do you know what profit is?]] [[Voice from the room: Rice bowl, rice bowl.]] If this family uses a car and most Polish families use a car, there will be another 48 PLN per month. If it uses electricity and gas at the same time, depending on what the house or apartment is heating, it will be from 65 PLN to up to 200 PLN in their favor. When heating the house with gas our reductions in VAT, excise duties, reductions in all taxes that protect Polish families, is a benefit for such a family worth about 200 PLN. [[Applause]] [[Tomorrow it'll be 180 zlotys with this inflation.]] For cookers this is of course less. For those who heat water with traditional Junkers, it will be approx. 36 PLN per month. [[Tomorrow - 32 PLN.]] I know you're making fun of that kind of money. I know that it's nothing for you that it's for you -- as someone of your people said -- as much as you get, as if you're collecting scrapbooks. Maybe it's funny to you guys, but it's not funny to me. These are real people's problems. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as we collect together only these actions from this part of the anti-inflationary shield, that is from 130 to 230 PLN per month for the Polish family. [[Some of the Members show the postcards with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] [[Some Members chant: A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice!]] Let's move on. The cover supplement is 850 PLN for the average Polish family. At PLN 850, if we divide it, it's PLN 71 a month. Together we have from 200 to 300 PLN. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you will be... Respected State! Now we hear 2 days ago that the president of the Platform said that expensive inflation is a Polish matter and this is a Polish government issue. [[Voice from the room: PiS.]] Well, it's very interesting that this is a matter of law and justice. I did not know that the Government of Law and Justice is not only the Polish Government, but also the world government, really. [[Applause]] But now that it's out, I really need to tell you what the truth is. We transported inflation to Germany. How? Normal. On boats through Odra and Nysa Lużycka. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You have little to do with the truth.]] They've had the highest inflation in 30 years. We also transported inflation to the euro area as a whole. The Polish government is so strong. We dropped that inflation on the planes. It's been 25 years high. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: What is she like?]] [[People are going bankrupt and you're laughing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's also so much truth. It's in your tablets, which you're showing now. [[Some Members chant: A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice!]] We also transported to the United States. It's the highest in 40 years. I can't tell you how, it's an intelligence secret. The Yankees were also so inflated that it went up their heels. [[Applause]] There is so much truth in what the Civic Platform says about Polish inflation. And the truth about the anti-inflationary shield is what I just counted you here. These calculations can be verified, they can be verified in various ways. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] But you know what hurts the most about our anti-inflationary shield program? [[Voice from the room: Arrogance and pride.]] The most painful part is that you know that the Polish state has deserted for the last 25 years until 2015. There was no Polish state that cared about those who were actually earning less, they were earning less than the average. [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the wage dominant in Poland at all? Do you know what a wage dominant is? Well, the wage dominant is the part of the population that makes the most money in the sample in this population. Okay. 40%. people earn 3400 PLN or less in Poland. [[That bad?]] Now think, ladies and gentlemen, if for these people 200 zlotys per month, 300 zlotys are small resources. [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister, how about a cut?]] And if we add to that our social policy, the one that was not before us, the one that was not in your time, ridiculed by you 500+, 13th retirement as a handler, is it easier to survive today for people who earn $2,500 or $3,000? [[Oh, yeah, yeah.]] Yeah, not much. But the same people in your day made 1,200 zlotys, 1,400 zlotys. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Yeah, that's what shame is. [[Prime Minister, why is the minimum wage increase so low?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'm saying it's our show. Our programme is a program to protect people, protect people from the effects of the pandemic crisis, from the effects of the inflation crisis. [[You can't listen to that.]] You may leave now, sir, if you cannot listen. You can leave now. This is the reality we're fighting. This is the reality we're fighting and we're going to try to fight it all the time, very effectively. [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] It's your duty to listen right now. [[You don't even listen to him.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences about what has recently been so strongly protested by your side about the Polish Lad. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have introduced a real tax revolution, a solidarity revolution. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Because thanks to this revolution mocked by you... [[You haven't done one yet, and you're already doing the other one?]] Yes, my fellow countrymen, thanks to this revolution mocked by the Civic Platform and, I see, by the PSL, although I thought that... [[Entrepreneurs will take you out on the wheelbarrows.]] ...in the PSL there are people whose fate of an ordinary man is expensive, but today, as you can see, they have joined forces back unfortunately, against all these people we have applied far-reaching tax reductions. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Six years.]] [[Six years of disaster.]] [[Even Błaszczak doesn't believe it anymore.]] Not only the VAT reduction, not only the PIT reduction we made earlier, but also the largest increase in the amount free, and the amount free is in fact a tax-free wage of up to PLN 30,000, one of the highest in Europe. [[Applause]] What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That means a tax-free pension of up to $2.5,000. PLN for Polish pensioners, but also for those who have pension up to 4900 PLN. That's a certain yield, too. Then there's the golden rule for the gold. And for those who have a pension between PLN 5,000 and PLN 12,800 there will be no gold loss. [[Voice from the room: It was already...]] We will take care of all pensioners or almost everyone, because really very few are pensioners who have higher pensions than 12 800. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We have over 31 million adult Poles. 27 million are accounted for on a tax or linear basis. And among these Poles 26 million are those citizens who will either benefit from our reform or the reform will be neutral towards them. And only against 600,000. people who are on a scale, and about 800, to 900 thousand. For those who are on a linear tax, reform may mean some additional contribution to the common budget, some additional contribution. 31,400,000. adult Poles and let's say about 1.5 million people who will put a bit more, several zlotys, twenty few zlotys, or actually more, 1 thousand, - 2 thousand, into the common budget. [[Voice from the hall: All you have to do is not steal.]] [[So you can steal it.]] That's less than 5%. That's about 4.5%. the entire population of adult Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the dominant, the median wage. Look at all the Poles who make 3,000. PLN, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000. zł. [[The voice from the hall: What is he talking about?]] [[The Lord will look at all those who are bankrupt.]] Theirs is the vast majority. This is not visible from Warsaw's salons, from Warsaw's skyscrapers, from your headquarters. You can't see that. But it saw the Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Go to Silesia and tell that to the miners.]] That is why we are consistently implementing this reform. [[The guy who lives in a guarded neighborhood.]] Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, you're acting... [[Voice from the room: How?]] [[Like Nitras.]] ...as in this commandment, which fell from one of the heroes of such a Polish comedy, money is not everything. He said, "Worry about yourself." This is the commandment of Polish capitalism: worry about yourself. And that's what the Civic Platform treated as a basic program in neoliberal times. [[Is that why the wife sold the plot?]] The state as a night watchman, a selfish state, a country that doesn't care about the citizen. Dear fellow countrymen, we do not want a return of such a country, we do not want a return of a state that does nothing, as there is a crisis. Remember what it was like back then. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You want to regulate prices.]] And so, the Polish Load is a complex reform, the most farthest it has been for decades. But there were simple changes. Do you remember such changes, very simple, implemented by the Platform and PSL? [[Voice from the room: You advised.]] Raising VAT from 22 to 23% - very simple. Raising the retirement age for women by 7 years - a very simple reform. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Collection of OFE, 150 billion from OFE, which the Platform took from Poles - a very simple reform. You can also do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[You liar!]] Our reform serves all people, which is why this reform is being prepared in such a way as to actually bring more justice into the Polish tax system. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Yeah, that's funny. Theirs is funny, ladies and gentlemen. You know why? Because they now show the Members of the Civic Platform that 200 zlotys are nothing to them. [[Those are lies.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For a corporate director, maybe it's nothing. You, of course, represent a lot of rich people. [[How much did you make?]] 200 zlotys could be, I don't know, lunch at the restaurant or a new tie... [[You're corporate.]] ...but for a pensioner it's shopping for a few days, for a student it's dinner for a few days or a dozen days. The same 200 zlotys. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, I think it's a bowl of rice.]] And it hurts you so much now that we look at these ordinary Polish families. We're reducing taxes. The State is acting as effectively as possible to protect against inflation to protect against the effects of pandemics, to protect against the effects of the global crisis. And protect the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Bareja.]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, think about your politics, because I see the Balcerowicz ghost running over your heads again. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[The President voted for you.]] I see you're enjoying this. One of your senators just said that, one of their senators. But little of that, many Members of the Civic Platform say exactly the same thing so that Balcerowicz will return. [[Change your glasses.]] [[Some Members chant: Member of Silesia, a crook from Wrocław! Member of Silesia, a crook from Wrocław! Member of Silesia, a crook from Wrocław!]] Balcerowicz's policy, Tusk's policy is unfortunately very selfish, low tax policy for the rich, for the wealthy, and higher interest rates for those who are less wealthy. [[Only the president voted for you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't let your eyes get sober. That's what this angry attack is all about right now. And I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first days, the first weeks of implementation of the reform were made errors that some salaries were wrongly charged. [[In my prewar books, I read about it.]] Sometimes it was the fault of local governments, sometimes it was the fault of failing to fill PIT-2 and the fault of those who were preparing reforms. Yeah, that's right. All these imperfections will be removed. None of those we've told you about will be paid less. Also, all pensions up to 12 800 will be higher or the same. But don't let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that these trips are the reason for this furious attack, this furious rage with which the Civic Platform has now turned its blade towards our tax reform. Don't let them tell you that. My Polish teacher said that if someone has no arguments, they pick on commas. And that's what we're experiencing right now. [[Applause]] You're picking on these commas. Meanwhile, we will consistently implement this reform for the benefit of the citizens. [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]] And you know why that's possible? Yesterday I saw such data, a comparison of budgetary revenues from 2008 and 2015 and from 2016 and 2022. For 7 years, the Civic Platform's growth amounted to around 10 billion. Over the 7 years of Law and Justice, the increase in budget revenue amounted to 200 billion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Because you couldn't take that money away from the VAT mob, and we took it and handed it over to the people, we handed it over to the Poles. And that's why it hurts so much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The Mafia is in the Ministry of Finance.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have no doubt that Poland's Load and Anti-Inflationary Shield in these very difficult weeks, months and maybe quarters will constitute two bridges, which are lowered from two sides of the river so that in this difficult economic environment, global crisis, global cost-effectiveness, it will be easier for Poles. Yes, just to make it easier, we lower VAT, we lower excise duty, we lower VAT on food and we also reduce VAT on fuel from 23% to 8%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the plot?]] From 23% to 8%. You know what that means? This means 60/70 gr. [[Applause]] And that's what you're afraid of: February 1st, February 2nd, Poles will see the reality of our actions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because politics, which is not a real policy for Poles, is a weak policy, and we are trying to do everything we can to relieve Poles in these difficult months. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Stop it.]] And we will, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Come down now, that's enough.]] Therefore, if anyone is in doubt, I will conclude by saying this: When the vote ends today, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly address this side of our esteemed Sejm... [[You go to the miners.]] ... High House, go out to the people and ask them if they want this tax reduction or if they want these protective accessories... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[700%.]] ...do they want this tax-free amount, one of the highest in Europe... [[Voice from the hall: They do not want grace.]] ...whether they want to protect Polish families and tax cuts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know what the answer is, but when you hear what the answer is, don't forget to say that this is all done by the government of law and justice. Thank you. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u366	Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, sir, I will not give you the floor. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at this side of the room, which is the opposition. You may disagree with us, but this part behaves dignifiedly... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...then the state with these screams, with this behavior, shows how low this public debate here, in the Polish Parliament, has fallen. Really. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: In corrigendum mode.]] There is no correction mode. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1900. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1900 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and records of payment applications. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1904. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, in print No. 1904, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Energy Law. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1906. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1906, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 234 - for, 126 - against, 81 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws. During the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1851. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. We proceed with the vote on the motion for rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 185 - for, 247 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1851, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 249 - for, against - 182, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism - Kamila Bortniczuk. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism has given a negative opinion. We're voting. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamila Bortniczuk, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] [[Voice from the hall: Flowers for Meisa.]] 441 Members voted. 213 - for, 224 - against, abstained 4. [[Applause]] In view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to Minister Kamil Bortniczuk. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on a draft law amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print 1895-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws from print No. 1812. At its 46th meeting on 12 January 2022, the Sejm was held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in prints 1812 and 1895 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence for the purpose of examining the proposal and amendments tabled at second reading. The Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and National Defence, after considering the proposal and amendments on 13 January, shall ask the High Sejm to reject the amendments submitted and to reject the motion to reject the bill. Let me just add that some amendments should be voted on together. This is about Amendments 1 to 5, 13 and 14, Amendments 6 and 15 and Amendments 8 and 16. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u368	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1895. The Commission shall also submit in an additional report proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety and the same 1st minority proposal. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety and 1st motion for a minority will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Minority requests from 2 to 9 and amendments from 1 to 9 were submitted to Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the law - Educational law. In the second minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 1 (3) of point 3. a. This proposal brings together minority proposals 3, 4 and 7. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will make amendments 1 to 5, 13 and 14 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 2 to 4 and 7 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose the new wording of point 3 of point 1. a. Amendments 2 to 5, 13 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 5 and 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 1 to 5, 13 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 218 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. 1 in point 11, delete point (a) a and b. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 6th minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 207 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. 1 in point 11, add a new wording to point 11. a, delete point (a). b and add point (b). ca. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 39 for, 397 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 1 in point 12, delete point (a) b. This amendment is combined with the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 1 delete paragraph 13. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 1 delete paragraph 14. This amendment is combined with the 16th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will render the minority's proposal eight and nine and the 17th amendments futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. Point 1 (14). We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Check it out. [[Voice from the room: Got it.]] Does it work? Thank you. 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. Point 1 (14). We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 217 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. Strike out what does not apply. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 10th minority proposal and the 10th amendment were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act, including amendments to the Act - Teacher's Charter. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose in Article. 2 delete point 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 210 for, 231 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. 2 delete points 2 and 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 208 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. 11. the minority proposal and amendments 11 and 12 have been tabled in Article. 4 draft amending act, including amendments to the Act on the Educational Information System. In the 11th minority proposal and the 11th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 4 delete paragraph 6. We will vote on these proposals together. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render the 12th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal and the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 207 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion and amendment rejected. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 4 add new wording to point 6. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 208 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 13. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 217-- for, 223-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 23. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 218 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1895, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 227 for, 214 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws. [[Applause]] [[Censor at school, that's what you did. You've introduced censorship in schools. The Bolsheviks.]] We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Social Employment Act and on the amendment of the Law on Education in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism. The Commission's additional report is in print No 1901-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Employment Act and amending the Law on Sobriety and Against Alcoholism, print No. 1834. At its 46th meeting on 12 January 2022, the Sejm was held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1901 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to examine amendments at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy discussed the amendments at its meeting on 12 January. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm reject the amendments and that it vote on amendments 5 and 7. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u370	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 1901. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Employment Act. In the first amendment to Article. 6 The applicants shall propose to delete the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 204 - for, 224 - against, abstained 14. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 3rd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 201 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7b. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 206 - for, 229 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 207 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1901 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 431 - for, 10 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft legislation on passport documents. The additional committee report is in print 1898-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szopiński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 37 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Your Marshal has submitted to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs a draft law on passport documents for consideration. In three meetings of the committee and one session of the subcommittee, print No. 1898 was produced, which is a report on the draft passport legislation adopted by us. We present to you this printing together with six amendments and two minority proposals. The Commission voted that this draft law should be adopted today by High Izbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u372	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1898. At the same time, the Commission presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 35 applicants propose amendments to point 3 and 5. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1, 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 178 - for, 262 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 36 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 182 - for, 256 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 274 - for, against - 10, 158 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 75 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 208 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. 86 applicants propose to add point 15a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 439 - for, against - 2, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1898, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 396 for, 25 against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on passport documents. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. The additional committee report is in print No 1899-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a brief report on the government draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. At its current meeting on 12 January, the Sejm re-directed draft Print Act No 1899 to the committee to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Previously, there was a very substantive discussion about the government's submission. In the second reading, as you know, five amendments were tabled, from which the committee recommends that they all be rejected, and at the same time recommends that amendments 1 and 5 and 2 and 3 be voted together. Of course, we recommend adopting the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u374	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1899. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 67. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 217-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 70. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 4 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 218 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 2 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 216 - for, 222 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1899, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 223 - for, 213 - against, abstained 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of gas fuel customers due to the situation on the gas market. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1907-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Krajewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u375	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I would like to present an additional report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent government draft law on specific solutions for the protection of gas fuel customers due to the situation on the gas market, print No 1902. At its 46th meeting yesterday, 12 January, he re-directed the draft law in print No 1907 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets after considering the amendments at its meeting today, i.e. On 13 January 2022, he asks that the first amendment be accepted and that the other amendments be rejected. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets recommends that the High House adopt the project in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u376	Thank you very much. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1907. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first9. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 1 in Article. Article 62b (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) add the 18th indent. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose amendments to Article 1 (1). Article 62b (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 218 - for, 221 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 1 of the applicant's proposal in point 2 shall be added. 62bf. Amendments 4, 5, and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 3 to 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 203 - for, 224 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in print no. 1907, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 440 - for, no one was against, holding off on 1. The Sejm has passed a law on specific arrangements to protect gas fuel customers in view of the situation on the gas market. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The additional committee report is in print No 1914-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Adam Gazwada to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of the presidents! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the act on the tax on goods and services. Nine amendments were tabled during the second reading. These amendments were addressed today to the Committee on Public Finance. The Public Finance Commission has rejected all nine amendments and recommends the adoption of a law in its entirety, a law which is introduced in a capital way in this range of proposals reducing significantly the tax on goods and services, the tax on foodstuffs, energy, energy and fuels. It's all very important that we accept today. The high committee recommends that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u378	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft print law No 1914. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as an additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose appropriate amendments to the Enforcement Act in the administration. Amendments 3, 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The consequence of the adoption of these amendments will be the amendment of the title of the Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3, 7 and 9, along with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 39 - for, 224 - against, 179 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose that paragraph be amended. Article 1 37m Act on toll motorways and National Road Fund. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequence of this amendment will be the amendment of the title of the law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment, together with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 38 - for, 224 - against, 179 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 4 to 6 and 1 and 2 of minority proposals were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 42. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 47 for, 222 against, 170 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes an extension of the proposed solutions in the draft law until 31 December 2023. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal and the 6th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 214 - for, 224 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application and the same 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to extend the validity of the proposed solutions in the draft law until 31 December 2022. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority proposal and the same 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 216 - for, against - 224, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. 146dc. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 217 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to amend points 2, 6, 8 and 12 in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on excise duty. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequence of this amendment will be the amendment of the title of the law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 25 - for, 224 - against, 193 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal, applicants propose to delete Article. 2nd draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 216 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1914 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 438 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on fibre hemp. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1700 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 225 - for, 211 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1701 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 227 for, 211 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Total) about the point: Information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on Border Guard activities undertaken at the Polish-Belarusian border and in the border area after 2 September 2021, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens on 21 September 2021 o point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of negotiations with the Czech Republic on the mining of brown coal in the Turów mine and the government's efforts to conclude the dispute, - Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 on the point: Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on negotiations with the Czech Republic concerning the Turów mines and the reasons for their detention and earlier events which could lead to deterioration of the situation of the mine. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the request for information on the actions of the Border Guard. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens on 21 September 2021 submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of negotiations with the Czech Republic on the mining of brown coal in the Turów mine and the government's efforts to conclude the dispute. The request was renewed by the club on 27 October 2021. Since these are the same proposals and have been submitted by the same Sejm body on these proposals, it will vote jointly. We are voting on the same proposals for information on the state of negotiations with the Czech Republic on brown coal mining in the Turów mine. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these proposals would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 217 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm has rejected requests for supplementing the agenda. We are voting on the request for information on the negotiations with the Czech Republic on the Turin mines and the reasons for their detention. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 217 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1929). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1929 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 423 - for, 2 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 46th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you and your fellow Members wish to join the list, please. I'm closing the list. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 29 hours 18 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If anybody's up for it, you're welcome. I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u379	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! January 1863 in Piotrków and surroundings. The January Uprising, which broke out in 1863, is judged very harshly by many historians, but these are researchers who make a mistake of presentism, applying the modern measure to the events and circumstances that led to the beginning of this break. The factors that caused them are in the historical context, which includes Alexander Wielopolski's politics in the Polish Kingdom, the resounding situation of rebellion against many Russian repressions, and also, what cannot be forgotten, the young generation who grew up to wear swords, the footsteps of their fathers and grandparents who wanted to fight against the gun-killer. Piotrków Trybunalski was an important place on the map of the pre-January conspiracy. First of all, there was the capital of the Piotrovsk province. Secondly, the first resistance cells started organizing themselves already in the summer of 1861 among lower-level officials and teachers and students of the Piotrków junior high school. According to the preserved documents in the Piotrzków archive, the canon of Wawrzyniec Cent, headed by the underground insurgent administration, whose main task was to raise funds to equip the insurgent armed forces. Knowing the scale of revolutionary moods in the country, Alexander Wielopolski ordered the so-called. Branch, which means recruiting a recruit to the Tsar army. The service lasted for many years. Protecting herself from the branch, young people fled to the woods on the night of January 14 to 15. The winter was, as the messages say, extremely cold. The situation clearly escalated. Finally, the national authorities established an outbreak of the uprising on the night of January 22, 1963. The symbolic moment was to read over the grave of the 19-year-old Piotrkowian Valentine Wosiński at the piotrkowski cemetery of the National Government's manifesto calling for the uprising. Insurgent forces in the Piotrkowski district were commanded by Ignacy Szmidt. It was not possible to control Piotrkov, there were too many Tsar troops stationed here. In Radom, an ambush awaited the insurgents. The uprising began with failure. Later, unfortunately, it was even worse. The January Uprising was the most desperate national outburst. His atmosphere is perfectly reflected in one of Jerzy Czech's poems. Margrave of Wielopolski. Perhaps they speak most strongly to the consciousness of verses in which the cold political calculation of Wielopolska opposes the struggle for independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u380	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On December 18, 2021, Mr Wacław Mieczysław Pristup, a steadfast soldier of the AK and WiN, nicknamed Piskorz, a long-standing political prisoner of the Stalinist period, a veteran fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland, captain of the Polish Army at rest, died in Chełma at the age of 92. He was born on October 10, 1929 in Chelm in a working family. Peter's father worked in the local fire department, while Julia's mother from his grandson's house led the house. At the age of 7, he began to study at the local school. Stanisław Staszic, joined the Polish Scouts Association in 1939. He was a soldier in the Pavlov office of the district of V Pavlov - Rejowiec oblast and the District Inspector of Chełm District of Lublin National Army in the period of May 1943 - July 1944 with the function of liaison - he brought underground press, reports, ammunition and weapons - as well as the armed branch of the Association of Freedom and Independence. Henryk Lewczuk nicknamed Hammer and the Po-WiN group Zdybka in August 1946 - July 1947. He was a political prisoner who was originally sentenced to twice the death penalty and 45 years in prison, which was changed soon to life, in August 1947 - May 1957 the arrest of the District Public Security Office and the Chełm Penalty Facility and prisons in the Lublin Castle - here he was temporarily on death row - in Wronki and in the Opole Strzelce. His combined veteran internship and as a repressed person was 12 years and 1 month. Despite subsequent surveillance by security officers from the autumn of 1980 until retirement on 1 November 1990, he was an active member of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) of the Chełm Node of the Polish National Railways. Since 1990, he has been a member of the ordinary combatant of the Circle of Chełm of the World Association of National Army Soldiers, where he was almost to the end of his duties as chairman of the audit committee. In addition, he was Vice President of the Board of the Chełm Association of Freedom and Independence - the Association of Social and Kombatant and an active member of the Union of Political Prisoners of the Stalin period and the Association of Invalid Wars of the Republic of Poland in Chełm. In 2006 he was appointed military captain of the Polish Army at rest, and in 2014 he was appointed a member of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. In 2014, he became the hero of the film "Sentenced to the Death Penalty" carried out by the students of Junior High School No. 6 im. Sibiraki in Chełma, under the supervision of Mrs Beata Łukaszewska-Bres, for the competition "Young for History," accompanied by the September Documentary Film Festival "Intimidating, Incorruptible, Cursed 1944-1989" in Gdynia. This film won by unanimous verdict of the jury in this edition of the competition. Wacław Mieczysław Pristupa was awarded the Crosses: the National Army and the Political Prisoner and the Cavalry and Officers' Order of the Rebirth of Poland, and also honoured with the Commemorative Badge of Soldiers 7. The Infantry Regiment of the Home Army Legions, the Commemorative Badge of the Action of the Storm and the Cross of the WiN Association, the Badge of the Veteran Walk for Independence, the Badge of the Honor for the contribution of social work devoted to the ethos of the Home Army, the Badge 'On the occasion of the 55th anniversary of the establishment of the Association of Freedom and Independence' and the Badge of the 10th occasion. Anniversary of the Association of Social and Kombatant WiN, Honorary Badge of the World Association of National Army Soldiers and Medal of the Pro Patria. In the local environment he appeared to be the last of the living, evident and undisputed, steadfast soldiers cursed. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u382	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to tell you what it really looks like to a citizen, not in the PiS. Here's what Kowalski sees: inflation almost 9% And it's growing. Kaczyński, Ziobro and Woś assure that they do not know what Pegasus is, and certainly Poland does not have this system, and after that they will be dazzled that they have bought it to listen to the opposition, and the president says that if someone does not want to be eavesdropped, then buy an old Nokia, exposing their ministers and Members to ridicule. The Prime Minister apologizes because it didn't work out with the Polish Ład, but the fact that thousands of citizens paid for it is sorry not sorry. Those who do not have enough to survive are not enough - let them eat rice. The government, looking for faults for its own mistakes, quickly found them - accounting, staff, teachers, uniformed services, pensioners, opposition, entrepreneurs and the European Union. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Established by the Polish ambassador in the Czech Republic in the German press, he tells the truth that a bit stupid business with this Turov, that in total Poles and the diplomatic inability of the ignorant from PiS are guilty. What does the Prime Minister do? He's kicking him out because what's more, but the truth people on his team don't need him. The Minister of State Assets says that he alone is responsible for the price of electricity. Then he says there won't be a raise. Later that there will be and that there will be compensation and then that there will be compensation. It ends with a few hundred percent increase, and the minister says he's not responsible for the prices. The anti-inflationary shield generates inflation because it does not provide for reductions in gas and electricity prices for companies which, after these increases, will increase the prices of services and products, and inflation is rising prices. The Minister of Health of PiS demands the resignation of curator Nowak, MEP PiS bescho publicly minister of education, asking if he is deaf. The same Minister of Health announces that about three weeks we will be facing a health crisis that we have not seen before. The PiS management admits that the PiS is in favour of mandatory vaccinations, but their members at the committee's meeting vote against, because what will the Confederation say? It proves that they expose people to death on purpose, and no one sees the problem. Prominent Mr PiS announces regulated food prices, as in Orban, as in the Polish People's Republic. The Americans are considering withdrawing some of their troops from Poland. In the European Parliament, it is said that we are leaving the Union. Amnesty International confirms that power is eavesdropping on democratic opposition in the electoral campaign, which puts election results into question. The Minister of Sport evaluates Łukasz Meja as a young entrepreneur. And only Andrzej gently flies the BMW 7 series on the signals to the Vistula, pushing the Sovereign to the side of the road, because it fell a bit of snow and you need to practice slalom. Have a nice weekend, Andrew. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u384	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already warned from the Seym Council, the staff of medical diagnostic laboratories who collect biological material from patients infected and suspected of being infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus and who are investigating this material, the Minister of Health has taken the right to additional money provision, so-called. the COVID additive. Therefore, on 3 December last year, I referred to the Minister with an interpellation in which I described all the epidemic risks associated with the detection of infections and asked him when he would restore the wrongly received wage allowances to the diagnosis. The answer you gave to Minister Niedzielski with the lips of your Deputy Minister, Mr Piotr Bromber, was a shock and nevertheless a great surprise in the professional diagnostics environment, because she showed that either the ministers responsible for health in our country do not know how medical diagnostic laboratories operate in Poland and how SARS-CoV-2 research is conducted, or because of the political demand they deny this knowledge from their consciousness. That's why I have to use this Seymary today to inform the Ministry of Health that there is no division between COVID and non-COVID laboratories in hospitals with COVID units. All laboratory tests are carried out in the same medical diagnostic laboratories by the same individuals, on the same samples that are then distributed to different laboratories. According to many representatives of the diagnostic community who intervened with me about the exclusion from COVID add-ons of laboratory workers, it is so absurd that these workers are the smallest professional group, relatively low-paid. Therefore, the savings made in this group appear, on the one hand, unjustified in economic terms and, on the other hand, highly unfair in society. The Ministry of Health empathizing with millions of COVID supplements, does not see or want to see that parts of medical environments criticizing the ministry This is not about the amount of money spent, but about the disparities in the distribution of money per professional group. In the fight against the pandemic, not only doctors, nurses or medical rescuers are involved, but also e.g. The labs from the medical diagnostic labs, without which this fight would be quite ineffective. In view of the above, on 12 January, I submitted to the Minister of Health a repeated interpellation with the request that this time the Minister respond substantively to the substantive comments of the ladies and gentlemen of the diagnosis and, of course, restore the COVID allowances wrongly taken from the staff of medical diagnostic laboratories. Dear Minister, Together with the diagnostics I look forward to responding to this substantive speech and interpellation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u386	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Government steals from acquired rights. As a result of tax changes and resulting from the Polish government, pension benefits were reduced for mining or uniform pensioners. In some cases it was reduced by an amount of several hundred zlotys. It was supposed to be okay, and it came out as usual. The tax changes introduced by the Polish Load affect many social groups in a negative way. It's hard to find any positives here. The Polish Load is an expensive order, as the inhabitants of the Miedziego Zagłęg, as well as pensioners of the uniform, have learned very well. The government introducing the Polish Load has ignored people who have worked hard in the mining and steel sector or in uniform all their lives. We don't have to talk much about the characteristics of their work, each of us knows how difficult it is for them to work. However, the government does not seem to notice, and it takes hundreds of gold away from them. And this is when we have the highest level of inflation in the 21st century, and the prices of many basic products are even higher by a few dozen percent. There will never be a good time for change, but in the situation we are currently in, it is ridiculous. At this point we have to meet people who lose their money as a result of the Polish Deal. Constitutional records should protect rights acquired by pensioners, but this is not the case. You have to say out loud that this is not an imaginary problem. We are approached by miners and retired uniforms, who describe how their financial situation changed after the introduction of the Polish Order. One of them retired on January 5, less than PLN 200, without any explanation. Is this how a democratic state should function? The second one lost about 120 PLN per month on Polish Lada. Perhaps for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and his government these are insignificant amounts, but for ordinary people who financially support their family or children, these are impossible situations. The pension and its amount measured by the net amount, i.e. what the pensioner actually gets in the hand, belongs to the so-called. acquired rights and is inviolable. Of course, it can and should be increased, in accordance with the principles of revalorisation adopted by the Sejm, but it can never and should not be reduced. It's just stealing. The authority that assassinates acquired rights - pension to such rights - does not inspire confidence. It's a rogue social policy. The changes made must be withdrawn as soon as possible and returned to the previous system so that pensioners who have acquired pension rights are not robbed of their own money. Importantly, we must remember that today's family model differs from that of decades ago. At that time it was mostly men who worked, and women cared about raising children and creating a home bonfire. Therefore, they do not have pension benefits or are at a very low level. When the government cuts pension benefits for former miners or uniform workers today, it takes money. Not just them, but the whole families. Retirement is often a source of support for two or more people, causing problems in the form of insufficient livelihoods for many families. We can't let that happen. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the miners at KGHM received 14 salaries. They hoped that for the hard work they do every day, they would receive a normal salary. 14 salaries paid on days - this money was paid into the accounts yesterday and today - are less than 1 000. Up to 2,000. PLN compared to last year. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it looks like. New Deal. We stand up for all those whom New Deal has taken the money often needed for treatment, for rehabilitation and for normal survival. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u388	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns farmers who have been injured as a result of an unfair entrepreneur who has made advances for the purchase of fertilizers. Last year the entrepreneur from Skotnik, the municipality of Miłosław, from more than 35 farmers received an advance of about PLN 1.5 million. In return, he was to provide fertilizer to these farmers. By the end of the year, farmers started receiving text messages from an unfair businessman telling them to be calm, that fertilizer would arrive in their backyard, while at the same time preparing their documentation, the company's documentation, it was about restructuring. In this case, it is appalling that farmers have tried to report the case to the local prosecutor's office and the police. They were informed at the D.A.'s office that due to the COVID regulations, etc. they are to do so in writing, and the police were not encouraged to know how long this notification would take to scare the hell out of reporting it. I had the privilege of meeting this group of farmers on 7 January in the presence of the leader of the New Left in the district of September, Mr Leszek Stawicki. During this meeting, farmers informed me that a dishonest entrepreneur accepted payments as an advance on manure for KP's proof, which was the same number 1/2021. It follows that this matter should also be of interest to the relevant offices of our state. However, farmers have the feeling that the state institutions do not want to deal with the issue, rather they are protecting an unfair entrepreneur. When farmers went for this fertiliser, because they learned that in other warehouses in the municipality of Miłosław such fertiliser is folded, then the police took the side of an unfair entrepreneur, instructing farmers. From information obtained from these farmers, e.g. From the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment of the Council of the Commune of Miłosław Mr. Adam Szupła, it appears that the entrepreneur was preparing for the so-called. restructuring at the expense of farmers and their contributions. A long time ago, he reassigned the property to the nearest family, so he put it in order in his estate, with the money he had previously collected from advances, bought fertilizer, stored it in warehouses that farmers had not known about before, and at the moment he was selling it to the end, but already for cash, interested companies. Today there was a protest meeting of this group of farmers in front of the headquarters of this unfair company in Skotniki, the municipality of Miłosław, the district of wrzesiński, where farmers publicly expressed their dissatisfaction. It is also a question of the lack of system solutions for the state. There's talk of shortening the supply chain. This fertilizer dealer had previously functioned, as farmers say, in a correct way. Now farmers are wondering whether it was a systematic preparation to deceive them, whether it was the situation on the fertilizer market, i.e. these drastic increases, which caused the entrepreneur to fall, too, by fooling his neighbors and schoolmates, as farmers say. I call on the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and the relevant services of our country to take an interest in the matter. The Minister should present appropriate solutions which, firstly, would allow farmers to recover their resources quickly, because these funds are needed to buy fertilisers. The agricultural spring will not wait, you must sow fertilizers, and they remain without money and without fertilisers. Secondly, I call on the state's institutions to take an interest in an unfair entrepreneur and also to claim their debts, as well as defending these farmers' debts. The State must be on the side of the victims. And that is what I appeal to the authorities of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u390	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u391	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The majority of the PiS-owska Sejm adopted the budget. I say most of the Sejm, because the opposition had a lot of doubts. They were in it, for example. 2 billion on government public television propaganda, and we ran out of more money for our health or important investments for the inhabitants, for example. the bypass of the Starogard of Gdansk. It's a tour very much needed for the residents. It is rare that a transit route, from the King to Berlin, with such a large volume of traffic, will run through the centre of such a large city - approx. 20,000. Cars a day. It's dangerous for residents, for children going to school, and it poisons the environment. Since I've been a Member, which is six years, I've been trying to make this ring road work. It's one of my priorities. I work in the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, which is a departmental committee for bypasses, where I have persuaded our ministerial meetings to speed up this implementation. I also made parliamentary interpellations, I sought this important ring road from the Seym Hall during the budget discussion, as I informed the residents in various articles in the newspapers. We also organised a special meeting of the Infrastructure Committee at the City Office in Starogard at the invitation of the President. All of these procedures, taken together with the city authorities, the commune, the district old town, with the old-garden business club, the employers' union, the social committee for the construction of the Starogard Gdański ring road, forced the discussion to accelerate. In February 2021, the bypass was happily included on the list of 100 bypasses, which made us very happy. In 2020, the fifth option for this route was chosen and a programme concept was commissioned to define the size of nodes and the number of viaducts, animal culverts and acoustic screens. This documentation will be the basis for announcing the tender for implementation in the system: design and build. An application for an environmental decision has also been submitted. We're waiting. Unfortunately, according to the schedule presented by the government, the tender for this ring road is only planned for the third quarter of 2023, i.e. after the elections, and the ready ring road - of course not until 5 years from now. Why are you so late? No will? It is worth recalling that under the government of PO - PSL the project concerning the ring road of Starogard Gdański was on the list of national roads and motorways until 2023, with the funding provided. After PiS's power cut in 2015, the project fell in 2017 from the reserve list, no funding was provided and the deadline for implementation is still moving away. As every year, also this year I tabled an amendment to the national budget concerning 20 million PLN to speed up the implementation of this important route for the inhabitants. It is about speeding up implementation and, of course, issuing a tender for construction as soon as possible. Unfortunately, none of the members of the PiS, including not even Pomerania, supported this amendment, although not long ago in the electoral campaign it was ensured that they wanted to help citizens and support important investments for Pomerania. Words, words, words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u392	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Moniak Walej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Load is the most common term in the new year. It overcame the word "pandemia," which has so far collected 100,000 harvests in Poland. Victims. One plague gives way to the other? Because there's no other way to describe what you've been doing lately. The tax reform was intended to benefit many millions of Poles and Poles, especially those who face many difficulties every day. At the last minute, she shoved her knee and surprised us with a new year. Every day there are more people who are alarmed that they've been paid less. Teachers and teachers, police officers and policemen, many pensioners - these people wept when they received lower benefits, although they worked for decades. And they don't know why, someone's taking their money. I mean, these people were supposed to get more, but at best, they weren't gonna lose. They've earned it themselves. Parents who raise their children on their own are included in the long list of defrauded persons. Two days ago, I spoke to Mrs Margaret, who raises four children on her own. The accountant at her company calculated that she would lose 17,000 a year. zł. And she's gonna have to make it herself to give it back. She's ambitious, she works hard, she earns well, mostly to keep her four children alive. She says to me, "How is it possible, Miss, that a month ago I was able to plan holidays for children, buy new shoes, a birthday present for my youngest daughter? And now? Now I'm afraid I won't have enough money for it. The accountant told her that she doesn't know if she's gonna lose just enough that at the end of the year she might still pay a bigger tax because the rules are unclear and everything changes like a kaleidoscope. Prime Minister! You hit the most needy. You were supposed to protect families, give them a better fate, a better fate for children, support them. What went wrong with you taking people's money? They can't plan next month because they don't know what they're gonna make. You're incompetent - we've known that for six years, but what you're doing this year is bordering on the attack of incalculable madmen. Your inability hits everyone on every side. Małgorzata will lose part of her salary, and more will also have to pay for children's food, because the prices are rising overnight, and she will be hit by electricity and gas bills. Do you know what fate you've given people? It's time to open your eyes and apologize, it's time to fix your mistakes and give people back the money that you took from them, and it's about time, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u394	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u395	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, I was surprised to learn that PKP Intercity, which is a company belonging to the State, decided to terminate the weekend ticket. It's a blow to the rail passengers, it's an example of rolling down the railroad by the current power. For many years passengers could choose an attractive offer, which allowed them to visit Poland under reasonable conditions. This allowed them to visit our country, which they probably couldn't afford at normal prices. Visiting, they used accommodation, local attractions, gastronomy and it contributed to the development of our small homelands. Today, the PiS government is implementing a plan to make it difficult for Poles to use rail connections. It's not just the elimination of attractive tickets. It's also the elimination of rail connections. As a state, we are modernising rail networks by spending billions of zlotys on investments. But in order for it to make sense, trains have to move on a refurbished network. Instead of expanding the availability of rail connections, the government eliminates further rail connections. I'll use an example from my region. Only a few months ago from Bielska-Biała or Czechowice-Dziedzic passengers had a choice of four direct connections to Warsaw. There's barely two left today. The PiS government has eliminated the other two connections. The reason was to analyse the interest of passengers. However, in order to prove the thesis of little interest and the need to terminate connections, a fortress known from the 1990s and early 21st century was used. Well, four warehouses began to leave in pairs. The first couple in the morning, in an interval of several minutes, the second couple in the afternoon, also in a very short space. It is difficult for an analysis of interest to show that there is enough interest for two trains leaving at the same time. This disgraceful practice continues in the rule of law and justice to be the best. The connections are canceled, attractive train tickets are canceled, and this is an absolute scandal. I have a completely different opinion about this. We should be upgrading the rail network, but trains should be coming back to this network. However, in order for each of us to choose a train, the network of connections must correspond to the mode of modern life. So more connections adapted to the work cycle, education and leisure; new routes connecting smaller, larger but also touristic destinations; more attractive opportunities to buy tickets at a good price. The decisions of the current authority eliminating attractive tickets and rail connections are wrong and harmful to people. It's not gonna do any good. That is why today I call on the government and Prime Minister Morawiecki to stop this harmful activity and to keep their promises, i.e. to implement a programme to strengthen the railways in Poland and to increase the availability of rail links for citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, Mr Henryk Mikołajczak, a pensioner from Szczecin, came to my parliamentary office, who came to me with his case, telling me about the great harm that was done to him. I'm talking about pensions from so-called. in the year 53rd, and even more so in June. Because this, ladies and gentlemen, all pensioners in Poland know exactly that until last year, those who went to retirement in June had paid less benefits by PLN 200, 300. What kind of country, ladies and gentlemen, is this? But the government has moderated, and this injustice has been corrected. But from 2009 to 2019 this activity continued. These people still haven't gotten any compensation. I'm addressing the head of the ZUS, but also the supervisor's office, so that they don't leave these people behind without any decision. These people deserve common justice, justice in the form of repayment of the funds they have lost. And in the case of Mr Henryk Mikołajczak from Szczecin, in particular, because he has already frequently referred to the ZUS, and recently also to the parliamentary offices. That's why I'm asking you to. The second point I wanted to raise today, ladies and gentlemen, which has been very tense in recent days, is the situation of farmers. It's about the announcements you were talking about VAT on nitrogen fertilisers. I don't think you realize what's going on in farmhouses today. Farmers should spread nitrogen fertilisers in a few weeks. These nitrogen fertilisers are very much needed when it comes to crops. They will determine how many tons of cereals or various other crops, crops from these fields will be able to harvest. But today farmers are asking themselves basic questions. If they don't get help to a ton or to a price that goes crazy every day: ammonium saltpeter - 2800, 2900, 3100 and urea thick over 4,000. zł, it is the farmers today who ask if someone at the harvest will pay them 4,000. zł for rape. No one's gonna answer that today. And if no one's gonna answer that question today, it means someone's gonna pay. But you know who's gonna pay? Farmers. The question is, how long will they be able to pay? Perhaps today, as announced by our Commissioner in the European Union, why not do the Green Deal? Ecologically, no fertilizer. But, ladies and gentlemen, what will this lead us to? From a country that has a surplus in exports, the countries that it produces and exports, we can become an importer. Today we are facing a huge threat to food security. If we don't realize it... In these debates, today, yesterday, we talked a lot about energy security, prices, reasons. Today, let's look at this food security, because it can be very dangerous. And this motion, this proposal for a law of our club to pay $1,000. zł to 1 t, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve the problem, but gives hope that in spring, in a few weeks' time these farmers will buy and harvest these fertilizers. And it's worth thinking about that, ladies and gentlemen, as you sometimes say that your bill designs are so urgent. This issue is also very urgent, because some already at the end of February or at the beginning of March with these nitrogen fertilisers should be in the field. Today, these fertilizers are in the warehouses of the companies that produce them. If farmers do not buy them (the bell) at the right time, you will lose your country, but above all we will lose us as citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u398	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u399	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On January 10, Fr. canonist Otton Szymków, long-time parish priest of pw. St. Trinity in the Rifle and Dean of the decanate of Shooting, well-deserved man and priest, lieutenant of the Polish Army, honorary citizen of the city of Shooting. Sleep. Fr. Otton Szymków was born on 20 January 1942 in Lisowice, the former Tarnopol Voivodeship. After the Soviet Union took over these lands, the Szymkow family was repatriated to Poland and moved to Łopinno. Formation and theological studies Fr. Otton Szymków held a seminary in Gniezno and then a seminary in the Higher Seminary of the Holy Family Missionaries in Kazimierz Biskupi, which he graduated from in 1983. He received priestly ordainment at the hands of Fr. bp. Roman Andrzejewski in the monastery church in Kazimierz Biskupi. As a vicar he served in parishes in Kłeck and Powid. He was a parish administrator in Recht and then a parish priest in Powid. In 1997 he took over the parish of St. St. The Trinity in the Rifle, where he served as a priest. A great priest, a good, hearty hardworking and committed. Always concerned about the other man, about the church, the parish, the city of Strzelno, the surroundings and our homeland. He took every challenge with great heart. Loving God, the people and the places he cared about. He always found time to meet another man. He answered every call. Even several times he went to Warsaw, the Ministry of Infrastructure, to Minister Rafał Weber, to deal with matters concerning the city of Shooting and residents, e.g. the famous ring road of the city of Strzelna or the junction DK25 and DK15. He also undertook the task of renovating and revitalizing monuments in the Ponorbertian complex on the Hill of St. Wojciech and St. The Trinity of the Shooting, to which we have gained a lot of resources together. In addition to his pastoral work, he engaged in charity, education, theatre and evangelization activities and organized cultural and tourist events within the framework of the Roman Museum of Culture of Otto and Bolesław. As a diocesan pastor of farmers, he initiated the activities of the Good Farmer Club. In 2004 he was appointed a canonary of the Chapter at the Basilica of the Collegiate Church of St. St. The apostles Peter and Paul in Kruszwica. Fr. Otton on 11 February 2017 in the Polish Army Field Cathedral in Warsaw, among 161 priests forced to join the army in the times of the Polish People's Republic, received an officer's patent from the Minister of Defence. At the request of the head of the MON, President Andrzej Duda appointed him lieutenant for the first rank of officer. 20 April 2018 Fr. Otton received from President Andrzej Duda a decree declaring Shooting - a team of the former Norbertian monastery in the Shooting as a monument to history. He was also awarded the highest Marshal's award. The City Council of Shooting granted Fr. Otton's honorable title as an honorary citizen of the city of Shooting. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that there in heaven, Fr. Otton will help us even more, ask for the graces we need, and bless us. You will always be in our hearts, in our memory and in our prayers. The deceased Fr. We recommend Otto to God's mercy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u400	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The way we receive and shape the message about events today often depends on who is the author of it. An unknown author - is the title of a documentary film that tells the story of two passionate photographers, people who have recorded many events in contemporary history in their photographs, from the 1980s and 90s. 20th century Two heroes joined by a photo taken during the pacification of the Wujek mine on December 16, 1981. The main character of the film is Jerzy Kośnik - a photojournalist who, thanks to his passion and professional work in the 1980s, documents political and social events in Poland through photography. These photographs recreate the history of the emergence of.Solidarity, martial law and brutally suppressed manifestations. Over the years, he wonders about the history of the photo taken just on December 16, 1981 during the pacification of the Wujek mine. Pictures illustrating the tragedies of the mine's events have spread almost all over the world. However, no one was able to identify their author. After more than 30 years of these events, Jerzy Kośnik in the television program asked the audience, witnesses of events from 30 years ago, to provide information about who is the author of the tragic picture of Uncle's pacification. The appeal was effective. The next day after the broadcast, the author of the photo of Marek Janicki appeared. Kośnik's appeal has become an inspiration for Wiesław Paluch's director to make a film that reveals secrets, shows how truth is discovered. It turns out that 19-year-old Marek Janicki was a random participant in the events, who took photos of the technically weak, but priceless in the historical message. If it were not for Marek Janicki's courage and determination, perhaps the world would not have seen dramatic scenes from the repression of protest by the military and militia. Thanks to Janicki's immense stubbornness, he made it to the mine on the day of the pacification. For 30 years, for fear of repression, he hid the fact that these photographs were taken. If it hadn't been for George Kośnik's appeal, the world would probably never have known the name of the author of the photograph showing the historical truth of those days and his shocking history. An unknown author from Biłgoraj Wiesław Paluch is responsible for the script and director of the film. The producers are Tadeusz Pisarczyk and Wiesław Paluch, and co-producers are Polish Television and the Institute of National Remembrance. The film premiered on 14 December 2021 in Program 1 of Polish Television. The film was also presented during the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Tarnogrod, the home town of Józef Krzysztof Giza, one of the victims of the blood pacification of the Wujek mine. I would like to encourage all of you to watch the film "Author unknown." This is not only a reminder of the difficult time of political change, the carnival of solidarity and building the national identity of Poles, but also a lesson of history for young generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u402	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to bring up a very, very important topic for Poles and Poles, less spiritual and more pragmatic, more about today, now, everyday life and the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice is at war with the European Union. The Law and Justice Government has led to a situation in which funds from the National Reconstruction Plan have been blocked, 34 billion, as it still wants to pursue its sick reform of the justice system, whose sole purpose is to incarcerate judges so that they are political judges. Already today 5 billion euro could come to Poland, i.e. PLN 24.25 billion. This is almost as much as the state budget deficit for 2021. I stress: this is almost as much as the state budget deficit for 2021. You have owed PiS as much as you could today from the European Union. But it's worse because PiS, Prime Minister Morawiecki for 1,200 thousand. PLN from the state budget, i.e. at the expense of taxpayers, bought billboards to announce success a few months ago, announce that 750, maybe 770 billion PLN will come to Poland from the budget of the European Union, whether from the multiannual financial framework or from the National Reconstruction Plan. And that's not true, that's a lie. Taxpayers' money means they're being cheated. Firstly, the European Commission yesterday stated that if the PiS did not pay, out of our pockets, penalties for the Turks... We know what the former ambassador of the Republic of Poland said on this subject from the recommendation of Mateusz Morawiecki in the Czech Republic. He said it's neglect, that it's embarrassment, that it's incompetence, that it's foreign policy in ruins. Today, these penalties for failure to comply with the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union are, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 200 tens of millions. If the PiS does not decide to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber, which was to be a muzzle for free-willing judges under the Constitution and the right of judges, we will lose more money, hundreds of millions, 350 million PLN, 0.5 billion PLN, and the European Union, as the European Commission's press spokesperson said, will already issue invoices. But who? To us, to the citizens, to the state budget. Today, here and now, I want to be very clear... On behalf of the Left, together with Mr Tomasz Trela, we organized a press conference under the seat of PiS, because we know that the Prime Minister has a Morawiecki resident in the firm and that there is a Kaczyński decision-maker in Nowogrodzka. Today we do not ask, we do not call, but even threaten: these invoices - it is about the money, the billions that we will have to pay from the budget of the Republic of Poland and which Poland will not get - we will send to the Law and Justice, to Kaczyńskiego and to Morawiecki. But it is even worse because if the Law and Justice continue to disregard the rule of law, break the constitution, avoid discussion and compromise with the European Union, we will lose a whole 770 billion, because the regulation: the law, the rule of law for money comes into force. And no action by Mr Ziobra to Mrs Przyłębska will be effective, no ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, which, by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the European Commission, has been declared illegal, not established by law, will matter. Only in the end do we all lose, Poles and Poles. And when do we lose? When hundreds of people die every day as a result of a pandemic, when the price is in the pockets of the poorest, when inflation is terrifying, and movements concerning the anti-inflationary shield and energy prices, fuel prices are only foreseen for a few months. Today I accuse the government of PiS of acting against the state of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u404	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u405	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 January 2022, the provisions of the laws, which consist of Polish Load, came into force, the program of the government of the United Right, which reformes a number of spheres of life of Poles. For most Poles, especially the poorest and the least earners, this means among others. the relative increase in earnings and pensions. The Polish Government is the reform of the state and reconstruction after the pandemic of COVID-19, which affected every area of life and social activity, but most of all it hit the economy and health of Poles. Lowest non-tax pensions, zero minimum wage tax, increase of the tax-free amount to 30,000. PLN with an increase in the second tax threshold - all this will cause more money to be left in the pockets of Poles, 18 million Poles will pay less taxes. It is extremely important to support Polish families, it is important to take steps to improve negative demographic trends, which unfortunately for many years cause Poland to collapse the social security system and the lack of generational substitution. Care capital is an action whereby parents will receive 12 thousand. zł for the second and the next child. This money will be used to cover the costs of babysitting. Another activity in this area is an activity involving housing without own contribution. This country will guarantee this contribution. Polish families will be able to build their homes up to 70 m2 in a much easier way than before. Many Polish families will thus gain basic protection of living conditions and a better housing perspective. Each of us, in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, is aware of the importance and importance of health. Prophylaxis is extremely important. The Polish Load gives the opportunity to all people who are over 40 years old, to use a package of preventive tests, which will allow to assess their health and take medical measures aimed at preventing, among others. Civilizational diseases. 7% GDP is intended to be allocated to the wider understanding of health protection. Polish Load is also investment, especially infrastructure investments in local governments. More than PLN 23 billion have already gone to Polish municipalities and powiats, another 20 billion will be distributed at the beginning of this year. These are enormous amounts, huge, of which the local government officials expressed great joy on 26 October last year during the transfer of promenades in Chojnice. Hundreds of kilometers of new roads, water supply networks, new nursery, kindergartens, cultural and sports facilities will be built thanks to this support. Aid for investment of 80% , and in the case of the Popegeer area - up to 98% of the value of the task is a huge injection of resources for local governments, for residents - for residents of the whole Poland. Finally, I would like to add that Polish Load is a great work of social justice. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u406	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u407	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here to claim the miners, especially the miners from the Copper Basin. Because the new order robs not only mining pensioners, most of them received pensions lower by 100 PLN, 200 PLN, and even 300 PLN, but also Polish Load robs hardworking miners who work even a few days longer in the month, on Saturdays, Sundays. On average, the miner from the Copper Basin works 416 hours additionally. These are de facto two more months. On the day of yesterday, many miners were transferred to the accounts of the so-called miners. 14s smaller by 500 zlotys, about 1000 zlotys. It's just stealing from the miners. You can't rob hardworking people in the Copper Basin, who risk their health and lives every day. We demand that the law be amended in this matter. I'm saying this on behalf of all the copper miners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u408	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u409	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you my great sadness about the recent tragedy: the 12-year-old Kinga committed suicide. This little girl was a victim of sexual violence by both her family and her friends. The girl's been through a lot, looking for help everywhere. The relevant services have been notified, the case has been reported to the prosecutor's office, the police, the district family aid centre, and the request for child protection, which has been submitted, has been made between successive institutions and courts. The result was that the girl had to return to the family in which she was a victim of violence. And she just couldn't take it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, how can it be that everyone, you can say, saints from the question of helping the family, helping the children in this matter, did nothing, and if they did something, they didn't do enough. How could you let a girl go back to this family and still be hurt? It's not a bad law we're dealing with here, it's not a bad law, it's a lack of soullessness, it's an indolence, it's an indifference. But maybe there are other reasons for this terrible calamity. So, ladies and gentlemen, this case cannot be left behind. We really need to do something about this. And here together, I hope, it will work. For my part, I would like to announce at this point that we will discuss this issue in the Parliamentary Group of Women's Rights, which I chair. So that I would like to invite all institutions, including the spokesperson for the rights of the child, the spokesperson for civil rights, and find out what they have to say and offer on this matter. Because it can't be that children in Poland commit suicide, and adults disintegrate their hands and only regret when disaster happens. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to ask you for a moment of silence because of this misfortune that Kinga committed suicide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u410	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of energy security should be one of the priorities of every government, a government for which the right state is not an empty concept, is not a concept treated as a propaganda slogan. It is the 50th anniversary of the decision to build a nuclear power plant in Poland. The decision taken in 1972 to build a power plant was dictated by the desire to join modern nuclear energy countries for peaceful purposes and by the desire to reduce the consumption of hard coal. Construction of the first nuclear power plant began a decade later in the village Żarnowiec in Pomerania, in the district I represent. After systemic changes in 1989, construction was stopped and eventually abandoned. It is worth noting that Poland belongs to one of the few countries in Europe where a nuclear power plant has never been established, a power plant which could make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ashes and toxic substances. Every year because of bad air quality, more than 50 thousand die in Poland. Poles and Poles. The decision to build a power plant in 1972 is not the only visionary project of Edward Gierek's decade. Two years earlier, in 1970 it was decided to build a modern refinery in Gdańsk. The state-of-the-art part Europe's refinery became the first industrial plant in the PRL built on Western technologies and licenses, independent of Soviet oil and technology. The Gdansk refinery was adapted for processing oil imported from Iraq and Iran and Brent type oil from the North Sea. It is worth noting that in the 1970s. Poland had one of the largest tankers in the Baltic. The decision to build a refinery in Gdańsk and create a fleet of tankers was dictated by the desire to reduce Poland's dependence on the supply of energy raw materials from the Soviet Union. It is worth mentioning here Lech Kaczyński's words during the 2010 presidential campaign: Edward Gierek was a communist, but still a patriot. Half a century after the decision to build the Gdansk Refinery was made to increase the energy security of Poland, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki decided to sell to the Saudi investor shares in the Lotos Group - this group is the direct heir of the Gdansk Refinery - and, which is particularly shocking, 80% of the fuel stations of the Hungarian Lotos Group to MOL. For anyone who is tracking the oil and liquid fuels market, it is no secret that the company has strong links with Russia, for example through the exploitation of deposits in Russia and Kazakhstan. We have therefore seen a time when a strategic investment designed to reduce dependence on the Soviet Union today falls under the control of companies from the country, which is the largest European ally of Putin's Russia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u412	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Pandemic COVID-19 has been and continues to be an extremely negative phenomenon that has affected the whole world we know. Although it has been difficult for us in Poland for more than 1.5 years, much has already been said and written about it. In my speech, I would like to focus on the assistance that the Industrial Development Agency has provided to hospitals and other medical and caring institutions in spring 2020 to combat the outbreak of coronavirus, transferring more than PLN 4 million to these entities. The activities of the Industrial Development Agency have been included in the action of support by the Treasury companies of your units and health care institutions active in the fight against Coronavirus. ARP SA aid to hospitals and other medical and care facilities was possible, among others. thanks to good management of the company by the current management board under the direction of Mr Cesariusz Lesisz in 2019, i.e. before the pandemic, the management board of ARP SA generated a profit of PLN 27 million. It is worth recalling here that since 2016 ARP SA has been operating as a standalone entity of commercial law, it is a public limited company of the State Treasury subject to all market processes without funding from the state budget. The Management Board of ARP SA adopted a resolution in mid-March 2020 on any action in line with the Government's strategy to counter and reduce the effects of the epidemiological threat, in particular under Article. 6 the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the consequences of crises. Cesar Lessz said then: We are involved in the actions of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki related to the prevention and reduction of the effects of the epidemic threat. State Treasury companies are also obliged to pursue social objectives. The outbreak in 2020 required urgent assistance to hospitals involved in the fight against COVID-19. The ARP Foundation allocated PLN 3.5 million from its own resources from the funder's donation, i.e. the Agency for the Development of Industry SA. Additional funds to support particularly threatened facilities COVID-19 The ARP Foundation has been acquired from the contributions of companies of the ARP capital group. Nearly 556 thousand were collected as part of the announced collection. zł. The actions and support presented were a beautiful expression of solidarity in an unprecedented situation in the 21st century in our country resulting from the epidemic of life and human health. In such a situation, every gesture that helps to save whether it's life or the health of a person in need of such help is important. Aid to such a large extent shows a proper understanding of the problem we have been facing since March 2020 but also gives clear evidence of the importance of ensuring that State Treasury companies, which are a natural source of support in crisis situations in our country, are in good condition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u415	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During the vote on the 2022 budget, one of the budgetary amendments was extremely controversial. This was an amendment, after voting out 38 million PLN from the task: learning the language of national minorities in Polish schools. This will affect mainly children from the Opole Voivodeship, children of Polish Germans, about 150 thousand. Polish Germans, and approx. 20 thousand. children who learn the Kashubian language in areas inhabited by this national minority. I deeply believe that once on this list of regional languages, minority languages will also be Silesian, but it is not yet this day and it is not yet that time. Abstracting from whom this terrible decision will be touched, I wanted to make it clear that they are the same Poles as us, they are the same Poles as all of us. They're just different nationalities. They are national minorities in our society, which should have the same rights that each of us has. It is said that these funds, these 38 million PLN, are intended to be devoted to learning Polish for Poles who live in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, but there is a very serious problem with finding Polish organizations. German minority activists in Poland are trying to send a letter, trying to communicate with representatives of Polish organizations in Germany to determine who the money is going to be used for. About 10 million of this amount is to be distributed among Polish organizations in the Federal Republic of Germany, but no one tells them what organizations these funds are intended to be given to them for what purpose these funds should serve. If Poles actually have problems learning Polish in the territory of Germany, why didn't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take any action on this matter? Why don't we hear about it at every session of the Sejm? Why isn't anyone telling us? Taking away the opportunity to learn the language of national minorities, taking away from anyone the opportunity to learn the language of their country is a very large abuse, it is to deprive us of certain fundamental rights, rights which should belong to us as Poles, as Europeans, as members of a democratic society. Finally, two words about how the only Member representing the German minority in our parliament, Mr Ryszard Galla, was treated here in this House. He tried to tell you about the fact that educational tasks are taken from money that is intended to teach German as a native language. He wasn't allowed to speak. At the time when the time of his speech was over, and earlier he was voiced by the right side of the room, he was not allowed to speak. He couldn't even read his statement. His voice was taken from him before he said anything in substance. That's not how you do it, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how you do it. Anyone who remembers history should know that Parliament is a place of free, unfettered discussion and one cannot limit anybody's rights just because he was born German - he is Polish, lives in Poland and admits to his nationality - only because he speaks about himself as Kaszub, and wants his children to learn the language of a national minority, the language of Kashubian. This isn't the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u416	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u417	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I ask you to take firm action to protect our national heritage, namely the protection forests of Silesian cities, namely the forests in the Brynek Forests. This trend was planned for the years 2022 to 2031 to increase the number of jobs in our forests by up to 63%, which will result in a drastic increase in the cutting of trees. This includes: Zabrza, Bytomia, Gliwice and Tarnowskie Góra. Neither I nor the residents agree to such plans. In two interpellations sent to you: 30 November and 29 December last year, I drew attention to the fact that the beautiful and healthy beech forest in Zabrze-Rokitnica, which was very important for residents, was practically destroyed in the Brynek Nadleśnictwo, which was part of the former Tiele-Winkler family at the end of the 18th century. Miechowice-Rokitnic Forest Park. The inhabitants fear that further work on the increased cut-off will violate the values and nature of the forest, whose social function is crucial to their identity. The implementation of separate works can contribute to the irretrievable destruction of the unique value of the forest ecosystem, confirmed by the inventory of protected and indicator species for natural forests and the analysis of historical use. It follows that there is a reasonable suspicion that the provision of the article may be infringed. Paragraph 7 1 point 2 of the Forest Act, which refers to the need to protect forests, in particular forests and forest ecosystems, which are natural fragments of native nature or particularly valuable forests, among others. because of the preservation of natural diversity. In accordance with the opinion of the social side, I am also calling on her to maintain the separate posts in the plan for the period 2022.2031 for the Brynek Forest at the level of the previous plan for the years 2012 and 2021 or even to reduce them. The scale of logging from Brynek's Education raises our concerns. The inhabitants report to me with information indicating that forest management work planned for the coming years poses an important threat to native nature. What is also worth mentioning here, State Forests, an institution appointed to manage forests on behalf of the citizens and the citizen of the Republic of Poland, does not respond to clearly defined social needs, organizing a public consultation in recent weeks at a time where it traditionally celebrates. I believe that as representatives of society, we are obliged to actively protect the forests located in the Silesian voivodeship, and this is a commitment that we owe to past and future generations, our children and grandchildren. It therefore calls on the Prime Minister, President of the Council of Ministers, to initiate a dialogue between the State Forest Directorate and the social side and scientists in order to develop solutions that respond to contemporary environmental challenges and changing social needs, and which will also underpin the sustainable development of local communities and not just the supposedly sustainable economy of the State Forests. At the same time, I would like to thank the local social community warmly for their huge commitment to defending our Silesian forests. Mrs Magdalena Gusniak deserves special credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u418	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact is that Law and Justice are in opposition to the Civic Coalition. She's not on our way, and I don't think she'll ever be. However, this does not justify the hurtful statements against my person on the alleged use of vulgarism by me at the joint meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on 4 January 2022. Apart from the fact that I did not speak at any remote committee meeting that day, I was not connected to the microphone, I would like to state firmly and decisively that I never use vulgarism in both private life and public space. I am an enemy of swearing and I am fighting such vocabulary in the immediate surroundings, as people who know me very well, including the Members of the Civic Coalition, are very surprised and sad about this impossible talk. I expect an apology from the Members responsible for this situation and call for respect despite differences in political views. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u420	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank everyone here who worked on the Fire Department Act. Regulation of the legal status of this formation was one of my priorities. Not everyone believed in the success of this initiative. At the same time, I can assure you that this is only the beginning of changes in the voluntary fire department. This is one of the most important formations among rescuers who are most often and fastest on the scene. They're in contact with the victims, the victims of traffic accidents. They see such horrible events that some of them will never erase them from memory. Today, this formation has changed. She's not like she used to be. They're qualified rescuers today. They deserve recognition as servants, as well as wages and all that is best. We must do everything we can to encourage young people to join the voluntary fire brigade, because that is the only way we can build a functioning fire extinguisher system. The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Let's have St. Florian's got your back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! In 2022, we are facing further drastic increases in gas, electricity and fuel prices. All of this will result in a further galloping increase in the prices of goods and services for which consumers must pay. As a result, this will lead to the fact that Poles will have less and less money in their wallets. Everyone will pay for the cost, but it will be the poorest for whom the basic costs: housing, food are the main amount of expenditure in their modest budgets. We have social programs -- I'm thinking 500+, 13 retirements -- which had some value. You could say they were reducing the scale of poverty. But they, you can say, are melting, disappearing very quickly, because the scale of rising inflation, rising prices of products that are the basis of the lives of the inhabitants, mainly of this poorer part of society, is so large that it leads to increasingly difficult conditions and increasing poverty. We are seeing a systematic increase in the scale of poverty in Poland. I would like to refer to matters relating to the agricultural situation. This was the case, especially with regard to the price of natural gas, which is the primary raw material for fertiliser production. The situation is that almost four times the price increase in fertilisers leads to a risk of renewal of production. It can therefore be expected that this production will be partially discontinued in the spring due to very high costs. This threatens the food security of Poland. Although imported goods, especially imported food, are not always able to meet the quality criteria that are in Poland. So food security will be compromised. This will be an extremely difficult year for agriculture. Farmers have fulfilled their obligations to society, especially during the pandemic period. The food market was functioning very smoothly. They should be commended and thanked for this, but at the same time they should be helped to carry out this production on a systematic basis. And in agriculture, certain processes cannot be accelerated in food production, because it depends on a certain cycle of biological clocks. You can't make a second change, you can't accelerate plant growth or animal farming. This particularity of agriculture must be looked at by ensuring the right conditions for development. Finally, the problem that arouses surprises, fears, and even makes us wonder what government policy is here. It's the fuel sector. The government has an impact on two basic companies which are responsible for the fuel sector in Poland. I'm thinking about Orlen and Lotus. The government has an impact on both companies, can implement, conduct joint investment projects and - I don't know why this is happening, because I don't really understand the intentions - this is what we are trying to create one stronger company by eliminating a well-functioning company, which is Lotos. Actually, a large part of the market is being sold, a station. It also sells modern infrastructure, modern refinery and is trying to create a strong position of one company in destroying another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This does not serve the interests of the fuel sector. It doesn't serve consumers. This will weaken the position of the Polish fuel sector on the Polish market, and I am not talking about building a strong company in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u424	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u425	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Our country is characterised by a variety of views in various fields, different beauty and different natural resources. There is also a variety of spa treatments, in which we are definitely very rich. Our country is about 50 spas, folks. They are prepared spas that wish to provide services and invite you to provide professional services to the State using these natural resources that are being mined. It is about borowine, mineral waters or treatment with other advantages that occur in these spas. The last time was not favorable to spas, because the pandemic caused you the fear that something bad might happen on your way to or while in the spa. We must remember that these facilities, which are located in the areas of health resorts, i.e. sanatoria and other entities, are very safe, prepared, with professional medical staff, nursing staff, excellent physiotherapists, but also other non-white staff, who are waiting for you to help you recover or recover from various incidents or fractures, accidents, and from time to time, my dear country, to help you fight other diseases that affect you. That is why, bearing in mind this natural wealth, this wealth that we have in human potential, the wonderful staff already mentioned, which works in these centres, I encourage you as President of the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. Healing Health Services and Uniform Services and a representative of health and rehabilitation communities to use these services, which are at your fingertips. I also remind you that these entities, these spa communities, the spas themselves, the sanatoriums provide services in different areas for the state. These are, of course, ranges according to disease units, whether it's cardiological or pulmonological or otherwise. But also in the sanatorium there are hospital units of systemic rehabilitation, to which you can reach after some surgeries or events, incidents, fractures. Therefore, it is worth remembering that when you are a person who is busy, you have no time for yourself, you can get revenge after years, my dear ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it is worth taking care of your health, it is worth trying to steer your steps towards health resorts, sanatoriums, just to restore yourself, rehabilitate yourself and also raise our national values, which are located there at the highest level. My dears! This can be emphasized: let's be proud of this industry, this industry is one of the best in the world, and our balneology, our white staff, physiotherapists provide services at a global level. Many countries can learn from us. I also hope that this staff and its potential, which is gathered there, thousands of beds that are prepared to serve the state, you will use - their best qualities and opportunities, in a convenient time for you. Therefore, as a representative of Parliament, also on my behalf, the team, colleagues working in it, the Ministry of Health, I encourage you to do so. Despite the pandemic, taking all precautions, taking care of yourself, these facilities are perfectly prepared for this and you can feel very, very, very safe there. I don't think it's worth saving your health, your condition, your health future for a future undefined time unit. Today, it is worth directing your steps to the doctor, to the specialists, in order to get referrals to these wonderful institutions. Most importantly, I thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Adam Niedzielski, Minister Miłkowski, President Waśko and Mr Nowak for the fact that my team and I have worked out solutions to support sanatoria after the pandemic and have directed hundreds of millions of zlotys, exactly 70% redemption, for maintaining readiness during the COVID closure period. It saved my dear ladies and gentlemen, the sanatorium. It saved the spa. Now we will also help the spa communities and also directly the spas. These actions of our government, these annual actions that we have worked out over the course of the year, have saved thousands of jobs. They have saved this wonderful potential, which you, my fellow Members, can benefit from because it is dedicated to you and is waiting for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u426	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For 46 years of working life, i.e. Ever since I graduated from medical school, I've experienced a lot of difficult situations when I had to help sick people. I also heard and read in medical textbooks about the possible serious outbreak of a pandemic, the outbreak of a disease that will take over the whole world. It happened at the end of my medical work. There's been a COVID-19 pandemic. The virus in this disease is not banal, mutates, changes, changes the way it spreads. We don't have a cure for this disease that could eliminate it decisively. Medical scientists and biologists around the world are working on this. For today, the only option to save ourselves from an emergency life threat is the vaccine against COVID-19. This does not mean that vaccination protects against illness, but protects against severe and fatal termination of the disease. The COVID-19 puts a great deal of effort on the whole health system. We are before the next attack of a mutated virus and the possibility of increasing the number of mass diseases, more deaths and the exhaustion of health protection opportunities. Of course, the government is responsible for the organisation of health care, but Parliament is making legal decisions. We also set a personal example for society as a whole with our attitude toward sanitary arrangements. It is not fair to behave two-facedly, especially some politicians and some doctors. The social chaos caused by misinformation about vaccination against COVID-19 is unworthy of parliamentarians. I therefore appeal: let us take care not only of ourselves but also of other people by a proper personal attitude. We all have one life. We have available vaccinations, which we expected so much at the beginning of the pandemic. So let's encourage vaccination. Let's keep our distance. Let's wear masks. Let's keep our hands clean. We have too much to lose. Our choice depends on our chances of survival, the further development of our families and the whole country, our future. Let us set a good example for society in this room. Finally, I wanted to say one thing. I heard today about the suicide of a girl who wasn't given the right help, and her problems were ignored. There will be a conference tomorrow, an expert debate on children's rights in the family crisis. I invite you to this conference. It is worth considering the fate of our children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u428	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u429	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As we all know, the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border is still tense. There are thousands of migrants on our eastern border. In a cynical way, Alexander Lukashenka's regime used dreams in most poor people about living in a better world. In Europe. Aggression, attempts to cross the border illegally, provocations by Belarusian bordermen, disinformation in the media - this is a daily day at the border. It is worth noting: on the border between Poland and the European Union. Only the attitude of our border services, the army, the police, assisted by the fire department, depends on how safe this border will be. Polish uniformed services are prepared, each day they provide proof of responsibility and determination in ensuring our safety. We should all support them. The password behind the Polish uniform is not a party slogan, it is our clear message. We are with you, we trust you and thank you. Across the country, society has expressed its support for the defenders of our borders. Adults, young people and children spontaneously organize their actions under this much significant slogan "Mur" behind the Polish uniform. Together with children, primary school teachers in Ojrzeń and Senior Club, I organized a concert of patriotic songs dedicated to uniformed services. Wishes and Christmas cards made by children and gifts from the Senior Club have been handed over to uniformed representatives. They will reach the border, among others. To my dad, one of the schoolgirls who's on duty there. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a duty to support our defenders. For what they do, they deserve the highest respect. Christmas is coming up. Family holidays, many of them will stay on duty away from their loved ones. You can't forget about them and that they make us feel safe in our own home.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u430	Anti-fraud of seniors. Despite numerous appeals and warnings, fraud on seniors is flourishing. It is estimated that in 2020 85,9 million PLN was extorted through various variations of the method of the granddaughter. In the first half of 2021, this figure was around PLN 63 million. Experts thus point out that this may be the year in which the ungrateful record of extortion from seniors will fall - although a detailed summary of this issue will come in time. The beginning of the year is a good time to think about how to help our parents and grandparents avoid losing their lives. We need to take systemic action to increase vigilance among the older generation by taking various kinds of measures to limit this disgraceful activity. Together with the staff of my parliamentary office, we are helping to the extent possible and competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u431	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of this month, on 26 January we will celebrate the Polish Transplant Day. This festival was established on the anniversary of the first successful kidney transplant in Poland, which was held at the Clinic of the Surgical Medical Academy in Warsaw in 1966. It was then 621. such a procedure in the world. The primary problem of Polish transplantology is too few organs to be transplanted in relation to the number of people who are expecting transplants. Hospitals show varying activity when it comes to reporting potential donors. It is estimated that at national level it is only about 2% all the dead. To increase the chance of waiting for transplants, hospitals should increase their activity in the process of identifying potential donors. Each organ transplant has its source in a decision of great ethical value, a decision to selflessly sacrifice a part of its own body for the sake of the health and welfare of another human being. That is the nobleness of this act, which is an authentic act of love. These are the words of the great Pole, the Pope, St. John Paul II, who described organ donation to save human life. That is why I am appealing today to the ladies and gentlemen of Members, and also through you, through you, to all the people of Poland, for involvement and promotion of the idea of transplantology. An excellent example of commitment is the fulfilment of a declaration of will expressing the consent of the person who has such a document to receive organs from it. I would like to stress that a declaration of will is only an information print and its signature should be a reason for discussion among family, friends, friends, to express their will and their willingness to give organs after death. Therefore, by promoting the noble idea of saving lives by handing over organs to transplants, I encourage you to sign a declaration of will that can be downloaded today in many places on the Internet. From this point on, I would like to sincerely thank all doctors, nurses and all medical staff who take care of patients and their families. By taking this opportunity, I wish you perseverance, success, satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. Let the feeling of a well-fulfilled duty to patients be a source of satisfaction and joy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of Pomerania, I have always sought and will seek to make important investments in my region. As you know, particularly important are those that increase the safety of the inhabitants. From this point of view, I would like to inform you about the possibility of two particularly important investments for the inhabitants of Pomerania, which have recently been announced. The first one is the construction of the western bypass of the road town Chojnice. The government will support the project of as much as 25 750 thousand. PLN from the funds announced in December by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Investment funding is possible thanks to the Government Road Development Fund. The Chojnices need this investment that has been expected for many years. I hope that this will soon solve the problem of traffic, and the inhabitants of Chojnice and nearby towns will be able to reach their destination safely and safely in a shorter time. The second good news is the funding of the construction of the second stage of the Kartuz ring road, which is also possible thanks to funds from the Government Road Development Fund. The cards will receive over PLN 51 million for this huge project. The people of Kartuz have been waiting for this investment for years. The perimeter will certainly relieve traffic in many places in the Cartusk region. This will increase safety and also improve the communication of the region, reducing driving time. For this reason, I am very pleased that these measures will meet the expectations of the local community. These two investments are another step towards increasing safety on Polish roads and further good information for the inhabitants of Pomerania. The development of the road infrastructure of our region is gaining momentum, for which I would like to thank once again the Ministry of Infrastructure and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, as well as everyone involved in the construction of these investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u433	Statement on the entry into force of the Polish Order. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has not been two weeks since the entry into force of the Polish Order, and the chaos and stress it caused, many Poles spend their sleep with their eyes. Some have already experienced a change in their pay situation for the worse, others will soon feel it. Contrary to the government's narrative, this is neither a accounting mistake nor a deficiency in the proposals submitted. This is the consequence of the records drawn up by the rulers. Tax reform covering such a large area should be created with the participation of experts, entrepreneurs and in broad public consultation. However, it was created on the knee and introduced on an express basis, and the people most affected had little time to get to know the records. Even the Legislative Office was unable to read the whole project. We all know that this process is at the expense of millions of citizens. We parliamentarians must always bear in mind that decisions taken by us in this House affect the lives of citizens, hence we must not allow such procession over the laws that took place in the case of just Polish Order. We're supposed to serve people, not hurt them. It is the beginning of January, and Poles already see that the Polish misfortunes will gain a few, and they will lose the majority. So why does the government do this to its citizens? Is this the result of government failure or conscious action, because the state money shines empty, so you need to reach into the pockets of Poles and Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u434	Declaration on the anniversary of the nomination of the Archbishop of Krakow's metropolitan Karol Wojtyla. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 58 years ago, 13 January 1964, a year and a half after the death of his predecessor, archbishop. Eugeniusz Baziak, Bishop Karol Wojtyła, was nominated by Pope Paul VI as Archbishop of the metropolitan city of Cracow. As a metropolitan of Cracow, Karol Wojtyła remained the same caring priest as he had been so far, responsible for the mission to lift up the Church in difficult and unfavorable times of communism to the Church. One of the fruits of this persistent attitude was, among others. building a church in the newly created city - the working district of Nowa Huta. He devoted most of his time and attention to young people, who for a reason he treated as the salt of the earth and the light of the world. Today, Karol Wojtyła and St. John Paul II is the greatest son of the Polish land, as a nation we must remember this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u435	I would like to inform you that at the 46th meeting of the Polish Parliament there was a mistake in the vote no. 29 concerning the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law - Education law and some other laws, prints no. 1812, 1895 and 1895-A, which was a vote on the whole of the bill. It was not the intention of Members of the Parliamentary Collaboration to support this bill. This mistake did not affect the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-13-sejm-46-2.u436	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 46th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 47th session of the Sejm convened on 26 and 27 January 2022 was served to the ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, everyone. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 09]]
