ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Robert Gontarz, Mr Michael Urbaniak, Mr Patrick Wichr and Ms Bożena Żalewska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Michał Urbaniak and Bożena Ferrowska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Michał Urbaniak and Robert Gontarz. I am pleased to welcome the secretary, who will now be asked to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the meeting convened at 3 p.m. 9, - Senior policy together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Health-- hour. 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. At the same time, I welcome Secretary Michael Urbaniak and ask you to take your place.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u4	I will continue reading the Communications on the hours of each meeting of the Commission: - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Legal notice - hour. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We're moving on to the point. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to ask her questions about recruiting for a new type of military service. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence, on whose behalf he will be... We welcome the Minister of National Defence personally and thank you for answering the questions personally. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The present times, when we observe the situation beyond the eastern border, give us the impression that the security that the state should take care of is changed by all cases, it is all about principles, because security is the basis of existence. I would like to thank the Minister for the implementation of the voluntary basic military service, which was introduced by a document, the Homeland Defense Act. The Act contains the entire range of legislation adapted to contemporary challenges and proposes mechanisms for financing the modernisation of the army, as well as a model on how to reach the number of 300 000. soldiers in the Polish Armed Forces. The new type of service will be an effective mechanism for increasing the number of the Polish Army and building its reserves. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: When is the recruitment scheduled? Will it be paid during the training period? If so, what order, within what limits will the salary of a professional soldier be? Seeing the needs and involvement of the young generation in defending the homeland, I find that the departure of the Ministry of Defence to meet the needs of these issues is very important. Minister, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. We invite you to the speaker of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, and ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the international situation is a challenge for us. The war that is taking place behind our eastern border is something that requires an immediate response from our side, primarily to strengthen the Polish Armed Forces. Besides, I would like to stress that the Government of Law and Justice consistently strengthens the Polish Armed Forces, but the Russian attack on Ukraine requires action from us, which will accelerate this process. I will start with the Homeland Defense Act, which is the foundation of our actions. The Homeland Defense Act has created legal bases and appropriate financial instruments for radical expansion of the Polish Army, both in terms of numbers and weapons. The adoption of the bill is a very important event, but in fact it is only the beginning of the process of strengthening the Polish Armed Forces. From next year at least 3% GDP will be devoted to defence. The Armed Forces Support Fund was also established. It is a financial mechanism that will enable the process of modernization of the Polish Army to be accelerated. The Act also creates a foundation on which we will increase the number of Polish Army. One of the most important solutions that will contribute to the increase in armed forces is the voluntary basic military service. The candidate to join the Polish Army now has three types of military service to choose from: professional military service, territorial military service and voluntary primary military service, and additionally two types of service in reserve - active and passive reserve. A volunteer who chooses to volunteer essential military service will pass through two stages of service. The first is a 28-day basic training in a military unit or training center, completed by oath, and the second stage is 11-month specialized training in a military unit. What is important, during the second stage, soldiers will not be obliged to be enslaved. Each soldier of voluntary military service will receive a salary equal to his/her professional salary, or PLN 4560. At the end of the 28-day training, a soldier may join the Active Reserve or the Territorial Defence Forces. After 11 months of training, he gets priority in the recruitment of a professional service or, if he does not choose to serve in the military - priority in the employment of a public administration, of course, after meeting the requirements of the position. Importantly, the unit commander may decide to appoint a soldier of voluntary service to the professional service at any time of 11 months of training. All candidates will be provided with accommodation, board, uniform, equipment and insurance. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 21 May, we began recruiting for voluntary basic military service. Only on the first day of the organized 32 picnics for the new kind of service 1,600 people came in. This is only the beginning, because by the end of the year we prepared 15,000. Places for the willing. In the following years, this figure will continue to increase. We are launching an intensive information campaign on voluntary essential military service. We will be active in the media, in the Internet and, of course, in numerous meetings with residents. We have launched a special hotline where at 800 180 110 anyone willing to get all the detailed information about the new type of service. We will change the working hours of military recruitment centers in order to improve accessibility for working volunteers. On one day a week WCRs will be available up to an hour. 18, they will also be opened every first Saturday of the month. High Seym! Russia's bandit attack on Ukraine opened its eyes to even the biggest skeptics in terms of the expansion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. No one should doubt that we need a modern, well-armed and just numerous Polish Army. Voluntary military service is the solution that will lay the foundation for having 300 thousand armies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for those actions that actually strengthen our Armed Forces. Thank you for being open to the young generation, to the challenges. But the role of education in secondary schools is also very important in military mode. Does the Minister believe that this direction or this expansion of the offer for the young generation can also help to increase recruitment, increase employment in the Armed Forces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u11	Thank you very much, Member. And again, we ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Indeed, we are increasing - we are increasing the number of places in military universities, since our goal is to make the Polish Army count 300 thousand. soldiers, including 50,000. Those are the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army. We want to develop an appropriate number of officers. We are also lifting the barrier of the transition from the Petty Officers' corps to the officers. We want the officers to come from the soldiers who are the Petty Officers today as well. This is the fastest, easiest way to educate, to form an officer of the Polish Army. But this is one of the paths. We do not limit promotion paths within the Polish Army, but on the contrary, we are opening new opportunities. As far as uniform classes are concerned, we also increase the number of troops in military preparation, we finance 80% of such classes in schools run by local governments at appropriate levels. We also make it easier for uniformed graduates to join the army. These are young people who are already prepared to join the Polish Army from the march. On the last Saturday, when I inaugurated the campaign related to the start of recruitment for voluntary basic military service, I had the opportunity to hand out vocation cards to 14 people who volunteered for voluntary basic military service in Kraśnik. I asked these young people what their motives were for joining the army. I was built with answers because they were talking about patriotism. They said they were ready to defend their homeland, that they were ready to take responsibility for the safety of our homeland. It's a very noble attitude. I am proud that I have just heard that young people are ready to join the Polish Army. This is undoubtedly a need for a moment. Our task, our goal is to scare away, is to create such a strong Polish Army that a possible aggressor would not be serious about attacking our homeland. So we consistently increase the number of the Polish Army, we strengthen the Polish Army when it comes to weapons. Recently, I signed a request for further rocket batteries from Patriots. The first will be on the equipment of the Polish Army already this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we will consistently expand the Polish Army, so that the Polish Army is a very important deterrent on the eastern flank of the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u13	Thank you very much to the Minister and also to the Member for the questions on an important security issue. We'll proceed with the second question. In this round of questions will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski and Mr Tomasz Głogowski. These will concern limited availability and high carbon prices for individual customers and housing communities. The question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. On his behalf, the answer will be given by Minister Piotr Pyzik, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Acts. Then we ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This lump of coal has become a symbol today - a symbol of bitterness, anger of Poles who cannot afford to buy coal, a symbol of luxury for Poles who cannot afford to buy coal in a country supposedly standing on coal. But this coal has also become a symbol of the crazy expensive, incompetence and helplessness of the government. Yes, although the heating season is over in Poland, today Poles have problems buying coal. Here in Poland, they have problems purchasing coal. Buying on mines at an attractive price is bordered by miracle, and on coal assemblies prices soar to record height. Our parliamentary offices are called by Poles from different parts of the country, coming and saying, asking the same question: Why can't we buy coal? Why is the price of coal on the stacks more than 300%? Why a ton of green peas on the mine costs $1,000. PLN, and on coal content the price exceeds 3 000 times. Evil? Yes, Minister, it's true. I'm sure you'll find that the cost of buying coal is far beyond the capacity of thousands of Poles' domestic budgets at a crazy price, inflation and rising loan instalments. As experts say, energy poverty in the coal-burning group of houses has always been the highest. But this year, poverty will break all records. Minister, this is the time, time and last bell to start ordering the sale of coal from Polish mines so that the Poles can (the bell) supply themselves for the winter today. It's gonna get worse - it's gonna get worse, it's gonna get harder, it's gonna get more expensive. Minister, on behalf of thousands, millions of Poles, I appeal to you to address this problem and to point out when Poles will normally be able to buy coal, why coal, eco peas cannot be bought directly on mines and why this price beats such records. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u15	Thank you very much. We ask Minister Piotr Pyzik to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members of the Applicant! The reason for the limited availability and high carbon prices is due to a process consisting on the one hand and, on the other hand, to a simple free market, and to the fact that those dealers who buy this coal sell it at such prices as the market provides for. [[The free market is for cars.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u17	Dear Members, we have agreed on certain principles that I first read. When you ask a question, you listen to the answer, and if you answer the answer, you try to listen, and then eventually... [[Voice from the room: You're right. Excuse us.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Thank you, Marshal. I would just like to present the phenomenon as a whole. Okay. The Ministry of State Assets is aware of the difficulties currently encountered by coal buyers, including housing communities. Currently, the demand for household heating coal in Poland is around 50%. 9-10 million t per year, depending on the weather conditions prevailing in our country, which are directly translated into the length of the heating season and the amount of heat demand for heating buildings. It should be recalled that domestic coal production has not met the domestic demand for this raw material for several years. In the past years, the demand of the municipal and real estate sector was covered by the raw material imported to Poland. In 2021 private entities imported more than 8 million tons of hard coal to Poland, which went to individual customers as well as small greenhouses and entrepreneurs. Currently, the domestic and global energy coal market is experiencing a difficult supply and price situation, which is mainly due to the war in Ukraine and the introduction of an embargo on coal from Russia and Belarus. The difficult situation does not apply only to Poland. According to the European price index in coal trade in May Ub. year cost about $80, and now it's about $300. The Treasury companies inform about multiple requests for purchase of coal from individual customers in recent months. In view of the above, given the current interest of the raw material in excess of their current supply capacity, the companies decided to introduce restrictions on sales in order to provide fuel for the next heating season for as many customers as possible. Actions to improve the availability of coal. The Treasury companies confirm the increase in production in 2022, and the first results of the implemented activities and the involvement of miners are already visible. In March, 176,000 were mined. t more energy coal than in March last year. In 2022, State Treasury companies plan to increase the extraction of around 1.5 million tons of energy coal. It should also be stressed that the preparation of a new wall is a time-consuming and, above all, costly process. Making the mining wall available for the extraction of about 800,000. t coal lasts about 1.5 years - I emphasize 1.5 years - and costs about 200 million PLN. Therefore, the lack of imports from Russia from Polish mines cannot be completed overnight. That is why there are also discussions on increasing imports from other destinations than Russia, and used in previous experience, i.e. Australia, the Czech Republic, Canada, Kazakhstan, the United States. We are also looking, and we are doing it very intensively, other destinations. Action to halt rising coal prices. I kindly inform you that State Treasury companies are involved in coal production. They have prepared an offer dedicated to individual customers in order to ensure that coal can be purchased directly at the producer's prices without the margin of intermediaries. This sale is limited to allow the purchase of as many customers as possible. There are about 10,000 in Poland. warehouses. The Ministry of State Assets and Mining Companies do not create a final price on coal deposits. Unfortunately, this is the law of supply and demand. Compositions are private entities operating on the market in order to make a profit. Sales for housing cooperatives. Cooperatives and housing communities have the possibility to purchase coal directly at points of small coal sales. In view of the increased demand of such buyers, they are also preparing solutions for these associations to buy coal for household heating purposes. Currently, the needs reported by such entities are identified. There is still very important information regarding the control of the company's activities. I would like to remind you that according to the article. 382 § 1 of the Commercial Companies Code in a public limited company, the Supervisory Board shall exercise continuous supervision over the activities of the company in all its fields of activity. Art. 375 states, however, that the General Assembly and the Supervisory Board may not issue binding instructions to the Management Board concerning the conduct of the company's affairs. It follows from these provisions that the authority of the company authorised to control its activities is the supervisory board, the general meeting, in the company of the one-man Treasury, the function of the Minister of State Assets is most often not subject to control powers. Very important information, as it seems. I kindly inform you that according to the article. 7a Act on government departments for cases, among others. the country's energy security, including the security (The Bell) of energy supplies, energy raw materials and fuels, shall be the responsibility of the Minister responsible for energy. According to the division of work of the Council of Ministers, the department of government administration: energy is directed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Thank you. Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u18	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I don't know if those who are worried about whether they can afford not to freeze in a few months will be calmed down after your speech. We cannot only talk about the market situation when there is a war going on abroad, and Poland is rightly imposing an embargo. If this wasn't a serious, dangerous situation, I could joke that you decided to solve the smog problem effectively. There will be clean air in Poland, because people will sit in cold houses, because they will have nothing to buy coal for, for which they will heat their apartments. But this is no time for jokes. Over the years, the energy transformation has not been carried out, we have become increasingly dependent on Russian coal, although gas heating has been cheaper for several years than coal. Now it's gonna be much cheaper because gas prices are rising by 50% and coal by 300%. But even if people wanted to go to gas, they wouldn't have a chance, because there won't be any gas connections for the next two years. What are those who... Autumn's coming in a few months, four or five months from now. People are afraid of freezing at home right now. What are their options? What do you have to do to keep people from dreaming in their homes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u19	Thank you very much. We're asking the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To this question, for which I thank the Member, I answer as follows. As far as coal security issues are concerned for the autumn-winter season, the government is making every effort to avoid the situation, let's call it the deficit of this coal. We also do so with the climate ministry. We are taking all the measures it seems necessary to meet this need. That's one thing. [[And what are these actions? What do you mean, all of them?]] I'll answer in a moment, if the marshal will allow it, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u21	We're waiting for an answer to what these actions are. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Mr. Speaker! As for the second issue that you wanted to raise, it seems to me that the burning of coal by individual consumers will not reduce and will increase smog, so it is not exactly antismog action. Of course it is, because of its eminence. As far as actions are concerned, they are multi-directional. Because of a small amount of time, I tried to point them out more or less in the previous speech. Namely, these are, for example, the issue of adapting ports to the collection of coal, as well as the whole infrastructure protecting coal, which will arrive, for example. from imports. There must be security measures. As we know very well - I am particularly addressing Mr Gadowski, who is a mining specialist - in the situation where we are at the moment, I am talking about a Polish country, a loyal participant in the European process, in a situation where we have a problem with, say, European climate policy... Today we have a situation in which, in order to really extract coal, we need from 3 to 5 years, with costs being such that we also need to define profitability points, which is how long in a decarbonisation situation, the decarbonisation process can be implemented. No one knows the answer to that question because no one knows, first of all, when the war in Ukraine ends. And the second point is that, I think, all markets also need some kind of stability, and there is no stability. Therefore, we must defend our own market as we can. Of course, the option of increasing production is not only being considered now, because this is an option that we have been working on for months. So much for this moment. Thank you kindly. Thank you very much. The next question will be addressed to the Minister of Health on the financing of hospitals. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski will speak twice and will answer on behalf of the Minister of Health, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Maciej Miłkowski. So now we ask Mr Ziejewski to ask us a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The situation of county hospitals is steadily deteriorating in terms of both financial and human resources. Many of them suspend the activities of some branches, and the spectrum of closure of others is really looking into the eyes of hospital directors. The worst situations occur in gynecological and obstetric wards. Currently, these branches are causing significant losses to county hospitals. Some people say straight up: if there is no increase in spending on county hospitals, they will be closed because the district oldities do not have the funds to recapitalisation hospitals. Minister! Please inform us in the following areas: In connection with the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the draft law on the lowest remuneration in health care, which provides for increases from 1 July 2022 for doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, but also chamber doctors and medical secretaries, will the county hospitals receive funds for increases for administrative staff and contract employees? How does the Ministry of Health plan to solve the lack of doctors resident in county hospitals? Does the Ministry plan to introduce mandatory practices in county hospitals for resident doctors to address staff problems in smaller hospitals? The county hospital in Nowy Miasto Lubawski increased the basic hospital security contract by 2.8% compared to the previous contract, at the same time receiving 3% an additional flat-rate fee for maintaining readiness to provide benefits in the COVID sanitary regime, resulting in a reduction in the contract by 0,2% and further debt to the hospital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why was the contract for the county hospital in Nowy Miasto Lubawski enlarged to such a small extent? Question four: How does the Ministry of Health plan to improve the situation of gynaecological and obstetric wards, which generate huge losses? Is there a new network of gynaecological and obstetric wards in county hospitals? And one last question. By 31 December 2023 at the latest. The National Health Fund requires reimbursement, for the time being, in the form of services provided, paid for under the so-called. 1/12 of the contract of health services not completed during the pandemic of Coronavirus. These are further millions that must be reimbursed to county hospitals for the period during which they could not, for various reasons, carry out contracts with the National Health Fund. Let us remind you that by 2017 the practice of the National Health Fund was to pay or not pay a small part of the excesses, which was a manifest injury to the hospital. Whether the Ministry of Health plans to write off liabilities to county hospitals related to the reimbursement of the so-called. 1/12 contract? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u23	Thank you very much to Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski. And I would like to ask Minister Maciej Miłkowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for this series of very important questions about the current financial situation of county hospitals, because this is a separate special group. I wanted to talk immediately about the financial situation of the county hospitals. On the basis of the financial information we have from those hospitals we collect, we see the situation in 2020. What we have recently, the total financial result was PLN 219 million, the year before - 575 million. The loss was. Against this background, almost 50% This loss has diminished. This also applies to the number of hospitals. Profitability in 2019 was 33% hospitals and in 2020 - it's been 46% of the hospitals. Commitments increased during this period 2019-2021. In 2019 this amounted to 4.8 billion in this group of hospitals, increased to 5.5 billion in 2020, and in 2021 the initial results were 100 million more. At the same time, we see that the liabilities due in this respect fall from PLN 632 million to PLN 478 million for the previous year. We also see a growing number of hospitals that have no obligations. According to data at the end of 2021, 39% of district hospitals did not have liabilities due. With regard to the draft law on the lowest remuneration in health care, which is currently being examined in the Sejm - today should be the third reading - there was a question of remuneration, payment for county hospitals, also about possibilities regarding remuneration for administration and contractual obligations. As far as this law is concerned, I would like to say that it concerns a minimum remuneration, which directly concerned the remuneration of professional groups employed in the basic activity. There's an art, though. 5, which says that other groups of workers who are not employed in primary activity will have an increase in a given treatment facility corresponding to the increase in salaries of other occupational groups. As regards contracts, this law also provides for provisions for a medical technology assessment agency which will collect information on salaries, also remuneration for other purposes - contracts, contract-orders, i.e. also outside the law, so as to be able to properly pass on the health benefit. In this connection, the Ministry will collect this information and I would like to assure you that we are making a great deal of effort to implement this law so as to make the best possible possible implementation of this law so that the providers, all employees under the Act, can have from 1 July the remuneration that is specified, also so that other employees can have a revised remuneration. With regard to residents in county hospitals, the purpose of specialised training of doctors is not to secure shortages in the health care system. The residence paid by the Ministry, made either in specialization mode or in non-residence mode, is for a certain period of time so that the doctor obtains specialization precisely during this period. During this period, in addition to the basic internship, there are also partial internships, which are carried out in other therapeutic entities, in other organisational cells, as well as specialization training or qualification courses. Therefore, often these people are not in a given entity, i.e. they are not helping, because they need to train. Besides, we have information that doctors sometimes complain that they are not fulfilling their basic obligation to specialize in training. With us in Poland, the system is that it is the doctor who receives the specialization place and the doctor chooses where he would like to specialize in this area. These specializations also take place in county hospitals. Currently, according to the latest data, we have 1,450 training places in county hospitals. The highest number of training places are in Silesian, Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie voivodships, in such areas that correspond to areas of county hospitals, i.e. internal diseases (Dzwonek), pediatrics, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, orthopedics and traumatology. I haven't answered any other questions yet. I don't know if I could extend... Perhaps you have further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u25	Minister, we'll wait, because perhaps the content you'd like to convey will also be about the second question. If you don't, we'll extend the time so you can answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u26	Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to extend your time to the Minister for the fact that I have not received answers to a few questions, above all concerning 1/2 contract, 1/12 contract, and hospitals, not only district hospitals, are waiting for this information from the Ministry of Health. I'd also like to know what's going on with the gynecological and obstetric wards. In my voivodship, there's a closed branch in Iława right now. It is a 100-thousandth district and does not function gynecological and obstetric ward. The New Town District has financial problems with this branch. What is the Ministry of Health's position on these two key issues: what about gynecology and obstetrics and what about 1/12 contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u27	Mr President, the number of questions shows that the Minister will certainly not be able to answer all of them. I would suggest that the Minister focus on those that he has not responded to, and that the second part simply responds in writing. May I, Minister, please? Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u28	Thank you very much. So this is the continuation of the answers to the first questions I haven't answered yet. With regard to 1/12, in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of Health, healthcare providers should reimburse the funds transferred, not covered by health benefits, up to the end of 2023. So they have to return them or settle them with health benefits. Since we have a huge health debt, the Ministry is determined to make as many health benefits as possible for hospitals. The benefits are already overpaid, and therefore we expect that these benefits will be far more. Now, as is the post-COVID period, we see in particular the demand for more benefits. In total, for these 2 years, 2020-2021, the additional benefits provided were PLN 2.8 billion, of which there are currently around PLN 800 million to be paid, for which we are still 1.5 years old. Therefore, this is a very small amount and we believe that it will be paid back peacefully for the next 18 months. This is an average of about 28% amounts not paid in the whole country, but of course there are differences in different voivodships. Less than 11% - is in the Dolnośląskie voivodship, and the most is in the Mazowieckie voivodship - 57%. So that these funds are to be settled from over-executions. We're not planning, we shouldn't, and we don't want any hospital to return money in cash. As far as the New City of Lubawskie is concerned, I have information that this hospital got about 6%. A bigger contract. Looking at 3% of the COVID supplement for the higher cost of preparing for the treatment of patients, in particular the cost of medical materials, personal protective equipment, we see during the period of introduction, 1 July 2020, in fact these costs of individual measures were very high. Later prices became normal, costs were already calculated at normal prices during subsequent periods. This supplement was reduced on 1 April to 4.5% , but at the same time, additional funds were provided to all providers (the Bell) - i.e. 1.5%. The County Hospital in Nowy Miasto Lubawski was a COVID hospital and also had large off-COVID ranges. Now there's no COVID, so there's no way to pay. As far as gynecology and obstetrics are concerned, we actually have an analysis that there should be a minimum of 400 births - the more, the better the profitability. Of course, we are aware that staff in gynaecological and obstetric wards are employed together, i.e. those benefits, if there are fewer obstetrics - because this cannot be overdone - if people report, they can overexercise gynaecological benefits. They are in a roar, which means they can be moved calmly between different branches, which are included in lump sums. Yes, thank you very much. I think I've given you all the information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Jarosław Krajewski will be asking questions about the plans for the sale of Lotus Group shares by the Civic Platform government in 2011. The questions are addressed to the Minister of State Assets on behalf of which the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Maciej Małecki, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The announcement by PKN President Orlen Daniela Obietka of the government plans of the Civic Platform sales 53% was echoed. Lotus action. Yeah, that's right. [[Is the Platform running today?]] In this context, the criticism of the opposition about the European Commission's recommended sales... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u31	Excuse me, there are rules in this House that, if a Member asks a question, he has a chance to ask them in peace and effectiveness, and maybe later he can refer to it. [[You can't relax.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u32	In this context, the criticism of opposition about the European Commission's recommended sale of parts of Polish fuel stations for the Hungarian MOL was political perfidity. I would like to ask for information on what Polish energy security would look like if the transaction planned by the Government of the Civic Platform came to fruition. Is it true that there are documents that the government of Donald Tusk offered to sell Lotus to the most important Russian companies associated with the Kremlin: Lukoil, Rosnieft and Gazprom? How would this affect the availability and price of fuels? [[What if...]] I would also ask you to provide details of these plans. Thank you very much. If you were listening, you would know that there are documents. [[Sir, you don't know if...]] All you can do is lie. [[Applause]] [[The law and the lie...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. But let me be honest with you, there is something about this question, because now the minister's precious time will be useful for him to answer what would have been if it had been. [[What if...?]] Please, Minister Maciej Małecki. [[How can you, man?]] But we're asking for peace now. [[You are being compromised here. You should leave.]] Excuse me. Please allow the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is true that, at the beginning of May, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of State Assets Jacek Sasin, declassified the memo from October 2011. This is the letter of the then Minister of Treasury in Donald Tusk's government addressed to the President of Lotus. According to this document, in 2011 the Civic Platform government allowed Russian companies to privatise the Lotos Group. Among the three companies that were admitted to the sale process by the government of Donald Tusk, i.e. actually giving total control of the refinery in Gdańsk and other Lotus assets, were: the Russian company TNK-BP, later purchased by Rosnieft, Hungarian MOL and the Dutch company Mercuria Energy, whose shareholders as J&S for many years were intermediaries in the purchase of Russian oil. It is important to stress that this document on authorised sales to Russian-related companies was issued one week after the parliamentary elections won by the Platform. On this occasion, it is worth recalling the words of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who said that there is no ideological reason to speak categorically: not investors from any country, including Russia. [[Did he sell anything?]] Our neighbors are also here for us to do business with them. [[Minister, did he sell it?]] And now if this transaction were to take place, if this plan of the government of Donald Tusk were to be revealed in notes by Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasina... [[If grandma had a moustache.]] ...it would be a powerful blow to the energy security of Poland, i.e. if the Lotus Group were sold to a Russian investor, Polish energy security would look completely different today. [[And did she stay?]] This transaction did not work, but I remind you that the powerful action of blocking this misguided Lotus sales plan for the Russians was then adopted in the Polish Sejm by law and justice, supporting the citizens' bill, under which 150 thousand signed. Poles not to sell Lotus to the Russians. This bill, this civic project you rejected in the Polish Sejm. The situation would then be such that the whole Gdansk Refinery would be controlled directly by the Russians and there would be no investments to process other than Russian oil. That's the problem with Slovaks today, that's the problem in Hungary, because there's Russian oil processing facilities, not Brent oil, which we're switching to, so we don't take the raw materials from Putin. Gdansk's refinery could be closed by a model of other refineries in Europe and would not be in the Russian interest to modernise and develop it. To put it simply: if plans from the document led by Minister Alexander Grad, I remind you, Minister in the government of Donald Tusk, one of his closest colleagues, were realized, the Russians would receive a wide gate to the Polish economy, to the Polish energy sector. Poland could not have conducted a sovereign energy policy today if this plan had been implemented. Fortunately, the designers, who we see as regards documents, their statements, have succumbed to the pressure of public opinion, have succumbed to the pressure of Law and Justice in this Sejm, and this has not happened. Especially today, when the same people who allowed the sale of Lotus to Russians, the sale of Lotus Putin, are doing everything they can to block the process of consolidation of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u36	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to continue this subject and remind you that here and from this speaker Donald Tusk, today's leader of the Civic Platform, has declared that he wants dialogue with Russia as it is. This is very important information for all Poles, how far he was willing to cooperate and find common interests, as he emphasized, with Russia Vladimir Putin. It is worth noting that for several years we have had a firm diversification and independence in the framework of the security policy of Polish energy policy from the Russian Federation and we have seen this since the end of 2015. But in this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How will the consolidation of the Lotus Group and PKN Orlen affect our energy security and will it (The Bell) be a complete denial of this policy, which was led by Donald Tusk and the Government of the Civic Platform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u37	Again, we ask the Minister to answer the question asked about Mr Donald Tusk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland is the last country in the European Union, where in the hands of the same owner, the Treasury, there are two competing oil companies: Orlen and Lotos. In answer to Mr Jarosław Krajewski's question, it is worth considering whether it is in the Polish interest to discuss the purchase of oil, the purchase of products, the services of two smaller, competing companies, in the case of talks with oil sellers, whether from Saudi Arabia, or from other countries, that Poland is represented by two smaller companies, which have smaller volumes of purchases and can be played by this seller, or that there is one large energy company in which the forces of Polish fuel and gas champions are combined. It is obvious that it is in Poland's interest to build a strong, multi-energy group, which will have more opportunities to negotiate, to translate more into shopping, and to invest in improving the security of the Polish economy. This is the plan of the Law and Justice Government to build a joint venture with Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG. This increase in Poland's energy security is improving the competitiveness of the Polish economy and meeting the needs of energy transformation, because the company, whose revenues will exceed PLN 200 billion, and EBITDA will be higher than PLN 20 billion, will be able to engage very strongly in the process of energy transformation. Orlen connected to Lotus and with PGNiG will enter the extraclasses of fuel companies in Europe. It will be at the level of the Spanish Repsola, it will be able to push more and more effectively on the market, which today is largely controlled by other entities. This is the way other countries went - it goes, for example. o Norwegian Equinor, French Total, Italian ENI, Hungarian MOL. Consolidations have already taken place there. It is in Polish interest to consolidate fuel and gas companies around Orlen. But, at the same time, Mr Lotus, referred to him, is oriented around one leg, a refinery. If we leave Lotus to ourselves, with the falling demand for Lotus oil products will be in the end phase, Lotus will expire because there are no other sources of income. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Introduction of Lotus into a group where we have integrated exploration, extraction, refining, petrochemicals, energy, wholesale, detail, this is a new breath for the Gdańsk company. What a different plan from the one that Donald Tusk's government had to sell Lotus to the Russians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u39	Thank you very much. We have dealt with a bit of criticism of the intention of something that has actually been realized. Now, in the next round of questions, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer and Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. Member will ask about the high prices of petrol and diesel and the record profits of Orlen. This question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. As before, Minister Maciej Małecki will answer. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we just listened to the merger praises, but let's remind you, since you were talking about some champion that Saudi Aramco, whom you want to sell part of the refinery, is a company that's valued at $2.3 trillion. Therefore, even after this merger, after this merger, this new Orlen will be about 1/100. This is a threat from the point of view of Orlen, profits, but also energy security of Poles, because Arabi are very happy to cooperate with Russia, not any chance. Back to the question about the price of gasoline. Anyone who is going to a gas station at the moment is experiencing moments of horror, because this is the moment when he fills a gas tank for 300-400 PLN, the moment when the price of a litre of petrol is 7.3 and a litre of diesel 7.5-7.6 PLN. We realize that these huge profits of Orlen at the moment - I will remind you that last year it was over 11 billion, and this year in the first quarter it is over 3 billion - means one thing, that Poles reach very deeply into their pockets. These are the huge profits of Orlen and huge losses of Poles. That's how you feel about yourself, at the same time. The state company, is about to be a state even bigger pier, and at the same time the spoils of Poles, let's say it boldly. And at the same time, you're thinking about selling to MOL, which is partly Russian. And let's remind you of one thing. You talk a lot about oil prices. The price of oil per barrel, one, is currently 111-113 dollars, the other, the Russian one Orlen still uses, is 78, less than not so long ago, while at the same time we have record petrol prices. What does that mean? The fact that it was possible when the oil was 148 per barrel, in 2008 for gasoline to be 4,70 (The Bell) and now, in your time, when it is 113 or 78, depending on the type, is after 7,30. Why are you looting Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u41	The question is, Minister, it's pretty hard. And it was: Why are you looting Poles? [[It was very precise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u42	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is much to straighten out after Katarzyna Lubnauer's speech. I'll start by saying we're not talking Arabs, we're talking Arabs. The Russian oil you have invoked today accounts for only 30% of Orlen's production, because Orlen does not buy Russian oil under current contracts and buys brent oil, which is more expensive, where it can. The result of the Orlen you summoned is also untrue. You said Orlen achieved a net result of over PLN 3 billion in the first quarter. Orlen achieved the exact result of 2845 million PLN. I know you're laughing, but we're talking about finance, so I'd ask you to be precise. [[That's less than three billion.]] The result is open, official, it's on the page, you can check it out. But even this result of 2845 million PLN - so it happens that this is, for one quarter, what Orlen achieved for 8 years of the Platform and PSL governments together. [[But the gas was cheap.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u43	Mrs... State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: And now yes - I would like to draw attention to the fundamentals. Madam, speaking out of this pulpit, she is misleading everyone. Either you don't know anything about it, or you're saying it perfectly wrong. As for the result I quoted, Orlen's profit, gas stations, that's only 10%. - and it's not just fuel, it's the whole offer of gas stations. You attack the merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG when we build a strong multi-energy company, and you don't want to see it, you don't want to see that today Orlen is making profits because it has diversified sources of revenue. More than half of Orlen's profits are foreign profits. The margin at Orlen stations is minimal, the margin for drivers is minimal. Just compare the prices at petrol stations in Poland and other countries. Fuel prices depend on global factors, not only on the price of a barrel of oil, because I remind you that a barrel of oil is bought for dollars. The dollar's expensive, too. Gas is the raw material for the refinery that drives the refinery to a large extent. Gas prices have jumped repeatedly and these are the reasons for the highest ever fuel prices. Why? Because Putin assaulted Ukraine because there's a war outside our southeast border. We all know that commodity prices have gone up because of Putin's war. I ask you to stop whitewashing Putin and his influence, the effects of his war, his aggression on Ukraine against fuel prices, gas prices. Stop burdening Putin's own government and Orlen, who gives the exam again, as he passed it during the pandemic, so he gives it during the war, because he supports not only Ukrainian refugees in Poland, but also supports abroad. Fuel prices in Poland are at the lowest level in the European Union, because as a government we have prepared solutions which reduce radically public subsidies for fuel at petrol stations and this is a fundamental thing. Had it not been for the rule of law and justice and for the responsible policy of Orlen, fuel prices in Poland would have been at the level of other countries, including our region. Because if you look at prices at petrol stations in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, I do not recall countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands or Finland, then there prices are much, much higher. Please, if you do not want to help develop Polish energy security, if you do not want to help develop a strong company that will be able to compete effectively with other players, not only in our region, but across Europe, do not interfere. Please do not lie that the entry of Orlen into cooperation with Saudi Aramco is a threat to the energy security of Poland. Orlenu's cooperation with Saudi Aramco pushes Russian oil out of the Polish market. And perhaps that is why she is so angry about this. Orlen, working with Saudi Aramco, will be able to collect 400,000 each day. A barrel of oil. Annually, 20 million tons of oil will go from Saudi Arabia to Poland. With the need for our economy of 25-27 million t, it means that every barrel of oil from Saudi Arabia pushes Russian oil from Orlen, from Lotus. Perhaps it annoys you so much that we diversify sources of raw materials into the Polish economy, constantly reducing Russian participation, and by the end of this year Russian oil will disappear completely in Polish refineries. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Did Saudi Arabia or Orbán cut off from Russia? And you sell Polish silverware to these two entities, these two countries, and you say that the opposition pushes Putin Poland. You said we had the lowest gas prices in the region. I said, "I'm checking and comparing," it wasn't me, and the professional portal compared it to the wages we have in the country, to the national average. And what does it turn out to be? That a full tank of 60-litre Germany can fill up for its average earnings 21 times, as well as Dutch, Danish and other nationalities, other our neighbours, and Pole 12 times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the low price of gas? You spoil Poles, and state companies earn and the state budget earns that you rob Poles. This is not the case, so I ask again: Why are you selling Polish silvers to Orbán, MOL and Arabs? And yet you're telling us, you're playing with the situation here seven years ago, you're drawing some hypothetical conclusions, which would be if... and you're not dealing with the fact that the fuel prices at the Polish stations are really lower. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u45	Thank you. We will ask Minister Maciej Małecki to respond. [[The voice from the hall: Silver... yes, silver, silver...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to start with the correction again. [[Silver, Minister.]] Madam President, I asked earlier not to tell the Arabs, but the Arabs. Yes, my fellow Member, the silverware was a currency. You said a few times that someone was selling silver. [[Silver, I misspoke.]] You could buy something with silver. I think that if you have missed out on this, you have also missed out on other issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u47	They could also be sold. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: I will remind you of fuel prices from yesterday in Poland and in the countries of our region. Petrol in Poland - 7.33 zł, diesel - 7.09. [[And the average wage?]] Gasoline in Denmark - 10.93, almost 11 zł, in Finland - 10.89, in the Netherlands - 10.69 . But we're going down to our region. In Germany - 9.64, in the Czech Republic - 8.55, in Slovakia - 8.29 . [[21 times...]] Excuse me. Let us allow the Minister to speak. [[But you're lying to the minister.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: And these are comparisons. But it is good that you recall, well that the Members of the Platform summon the purchasing power of Poles, because I want to remind you of the words of the President of Orlen from your time, Mr. Tailor, who at the Owl's pub laughed that Donald Tusk after the 2011 election, after people voted in the Platform elections... [[But that was seven years ago, Minister.]] Once people voted for the Platform in 2011, Donald Tusk said: now you can make them fuel after 7 PLN. Then the Poles made half of what they made today. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's never been that expensive.]] Minister, wait a minute. Excuse me. Once again, I ask you not to interfere with the Minister's statements. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: I will say it again: it is good that you called the purchasing power of Poles, because when 11 years ago Poles were earning several times less than today, Donald Tusk said to the President of Orlen that the price of fuel could raise to 7 PLN at gas stations, because people had already voted for the Platform and you have already won the election. Only those days before the election mattered to you. [[I hope you don't win...]] However, I would like to say very strongly that the merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG is the construction of energy security of Poland. It was Donald Tusk's crew who planned to sell Lotus to the Russians. [[He is now, not Tusk.]] And like your leader Donald Tusk, your treasure minister, you planned to sell Lotus Putin. [[You're obsessed with it, treat yourselves. Heal yourselves, this is sickness, obsession.]] Putin and you wanted to have a gas contract by 2037 and today you are doing everything you can to block the Polish merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG. [[And you're selling.]] Do you know why you're so upset about this? You know why you're so furiously attacking President Daniel Obajtek... [[You're attacking Tusk.]] ...attacking the government of law and justice for building a multi-energy group? Because when we connect Orlen to Lotus and PGNiG, you'll never be able to sell Lotus Putin again. [[It's just the cloud of the show that Tusk didn't sell, and you're selling.]] And stop burdening the Polish government and the Polish Orlen with the war of your Putin, with whom you used to do fuel and gas business. You were going to sell Lotus to Putin and chain Poland to Gazprom, to Putin by 2037. Then you had to have such resistance to Russian arguments. It is a pity that when you were in charge, you worked hand in hand with Putin instead of building energy security of Poland. So today I take your screams as a complete untruth and very inelegant political behavior. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Further questions will be asked by Monika Pawłowska and Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. The questions will concern a decrease in the number of births in Poland and long-term actions aimed at improving the existence of Polish families. These questions are addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy and will be answered by Minister Barbara Socha. Here you go, Mrs Monica Pawłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u48	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, I can't go through indifferently and not to mention, for, I don't think I can fail to thank you for this previous pro-family policy, but it must be noted that the number of births is gradually falling. The Central Statistical Office published data for the period from January to March 2022, which shows that at that time fewer children were born than in the same period 12 months earlier. Natural growth remained negative and amounted to 53 thousand. persons. What kind of demographic strategy does the government have in addition to existing activities in order to counter the effects of a drop in births? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u49	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Barbara Socha, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u50	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Demographic processes are long-term processes, and in order to understand them, to refer to them and influence them, one needs to reach out a little to the past. Childhood in Poland, above all the number of births actually falls dramatically. It must be known that in the post-war period, between 1946 and 1960, there was a huge post-war increase in Poland, during which an average of 700,000 were born annually. children. Today, about half of this is born - 350 thousand. This demographic increase in the '40s and '50s means that today we can expect a massive increase in deaths. It's just that this post-war generation is beginning to die out, and that's why it would seem shocking and yet natural numbers associated with the increase in deaths. Of course, the COVID pandemic had an undoubted impact on this, but it does not fully explain these increases in the number of deaths. We are going to face these growths for the next decade, because it is this generation of huge post-war dunes of the 1950s that will be leaving. What does that mean for today's births? This means that after the early 1950s came another early 1970s and 1980s, called today the height of martial law, although the martial law obviously had nothing to do with it, and it was just an echo of the post-war. Today, this high martial law, this early 1970s, 80s, are forty-year-olds, including women who have already had children. We know that 95% children are born to 40 years of age and the period of the most intense procreation is between 25 and 39 years of age of women. Today we have a huge number of women forty-year-olds, who are just out of this ewe. I'm smiling because I see these women in the courtroom, and I think I can count myself in that jerk. We've already had children. We still count in statistics when it comes to the population of women of procreational age, because this age is counted to 49 years of age, but it is known that I, although I have almost reached this age, will not have more children, hence our children are falling, very, very rapidly falling the number of women who can have children today. To show you this, I'm going to say that there were over 10 million women a dozen years ago. Today there are about 9 million, and even more precisely 200,000. The number of women decreased between 2011 and 2015 compared to 2010, i.e. in this, five-year-old, during this period the number of women decreased by 200,000 and in the next five-year-old, i.e. in 2016-2020, dropped three times more, by another 580,000. So thanks to this simple calculation it is clear and obvious that we cannot count on an increase in births, because the number of women who can give birth to these children is falling very quickly, because it is precisely this higher, the echo of the chew has become a little old and it is too late for that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the demographicists have been beating the alarm for 20 years, that there is a need for very strong pro-family action, so that this very high turn of the 1970s and 1980s can be repeated. That next echo that should have happened 10 years ago, it just wasn't. It was very unnoticeable, at a very small level of the event, which meant that we had very low fertility. Today we have a difficult situation, which does not mean that we cannot influence it and that we do not influence it, but the effects of today's policy can be seen again in the next generation, i.e. in the perspective of 20 years. The Government of Law and Justice, from the very beginning of 2016, shortly after the takeover of power, introduced a groundbreaking 500+z family programme, but it was not the only project, the only programme that was the beginning of a policy, such a very intensive family policy. Three times the budget has been increased and the funding of the Youth Programme has been increased, we have developed an institutional nursery network, this year the Family Care Capital has come up, which, you can say, extends the form of state support not only on those parents who want to send children to daycare, but also on all parents and gives the possibility to choose the form of care. These children, who are not covered by the Family Care Capital, RKO, have since this year also received funding for daycare facilities, which means that not only the geographical availability of crèches will increase, because there are more and more of them, but also financial availability. A powerful barrier for young Poles in establishing, expanding families is housing. And tomorrow, 27 May, the Living Programme enters into force without own contribution, which also gives the possibility to young people who have not raised money for their own contribution (the bell) so that they can apply for housing. Soon, the government will adopt a demographic strategy that, in addition to these topics that I have already mentioned, will affect all other areas that affect fertility. These areas are 10. The most important of them outside of apartments are education, health and work, above all stable work for young Poles and flexible work, such as that which allows us to combine family life with working life and our aspirations and professional ambitions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u51	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mrs Józef Ratchurek--Iron. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u52	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister. As you mentioned, demographic action is a long-term action and its effects will probably be visible in a dozen years. That is why I thank you for these actions which the resort has been taking for several years. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish population will fall from 37 million and will reach 34 million in 2050. The largest loss is forecasted in Silesian, Łódź and Lublin voivodships and the smallest in Pomorskie. It is estimated that in 2050 the population of the working age in Poland will be 19 million. What actions, projects, laws are planned to implement the government and which it has already implemented in order to improve the lives of Polish families and seniors? Because you mentioned to the Minister that we will have to deal with a large number of seniors (the bell) who will probably need support. I'm asking for this information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u53	I would like to ask you again to respond to Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u54	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The demographic strategy, in its shape, covers all aspects that affect childhood, and our primary objective at the moment of the operationalisation of this document will be to create good conditions for families in Poland, so that, first, they do not have to leave, second, they have the right opportunities to develop here. We can see from the example of big cities that children in these cities are growing. This, of course, has to do with higher incomes, but it also has to do with stable work. We are planning a series of initiatives to develop a family-friendly labour market in this area. What is already at the stage of implementation is remote work, which this week was adopted by the Council of Ministers. We are also implementing the EU work-life balance directive on combining family and professional life. We extend the total parental leave that parents have, of which 9 weeks will only be for fathers, and not only in this 1st year of the child's life, but up to the 8th year of age, so it will certainly also serve to support these fatherly bonds and support for mothers by fathers, which is, as we know from many studies, very important. We also anticipate further solutions to the housing market, because we know how difficult the situation is, for example, related to the mortgage market. Here, too, the government has prepared a number of solutions that concern relief for those who already have loans today, but we are still working to ensure that the loans that young people want to borrow are real for them - hence the Living Programme without their own contribution - but also to support those who are working hard to raise their children, pay them back, so that the Living Programme does not have their own contribution is called. Family repayment, i.e. certain parts of the loan that will be paid by the State after the birth of the second and subsequent children. We will continue to build the infrastructure needed for parents and influence the quality of the management of pro-family policies at both central level - as we can see, this is very necessary - as well as at local level, because the role of local, district, municipal self-government in shaping conditions for families, especially in terms of spatial planning, housing policy and infrastructure is huge. This is what really happens at the level of each municipality and causes that in a given municipality, which can and wants to pursue a real pro-family policy, indeed families are happy to settle down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with further questions. They will be asked by the Members in the following order: Kazimierz Plocke and Gabriel Lenartowicz. They will deal with a robbery in the State Forests, and at the same time with the lack of reliable information on this matter in public space. These questions are addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. On his behalf, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will be responsible for Mr Edward Sark. Then I ask Mr Kazimierz Plocke to ask a question. And yet, Commissioner, yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u56	Thank you very much. I do not need to remind here that the State Forests, especially since they occupy more than one quarter of Poland's territory, is the national heritage of all Poles and Poles, not a plank plantation in the rule of State Forest officers. However, the owners of this good, or citizens, have recently seen such shocking images as piles of cut trees waiting for transport and export from the forest. This issue is all the more disgusting because the mass section concerns peri-urban forests, landscape parks, as well as mass cuttings are carried out in the forests. Even such an interactive map was created with red marked areas for logging. After the data was entered, almost all of Poland appeared in red. In the face of the State Forests, there are also multiple accusations of robbery and export of unprocessed wood on a massive scale, especially to China. Terrifying are the pictures of wagons and trucks full of raw wood heading for ports and towards the border. Currently, 10% of Poland is leaving Poland round wood, 4 million m Since the public, including journalists, does not obtain accurate and precise information, please answer the following questions, including in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How did the scale of logging in the State Forests, including sanitary cuts and biomass, develop in 2015-2021? What were the proceeds from this to the State Forests? What did it look like - in cubic meters and what value did it look like - to export unprocessed wood from Poland? What directions was he in? What was the use of forest biomass by power plants belonging to the State Treasury companies in these years? What were the proceeds from this to the State Forests? What was the scale of imports of forest biomass from Belarus and Russia? Is it still being conducted and on what scale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u57	Thank you very much. We very much ask Minister Edward Siarka to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for this statement, because it is an opportunity to answer a few questions that often appear in public space, especially in social media, and are full of inaccuracies, and by the way I hope that the wood industry is also listening to us, which, unlike you, often demands a very strong increase from us in the acquisition of wood in Polish forests, and this process is strictly regulated by law and such actions are simply impossible. In order to answer these questions in substance, I would like to make it very clear to you at the very beginning, please say that the State Forest Forests manage the forests of the State Treasury and conduct the economy strictly according to the principles of sustainable forest management. What does it mean to run these forests? Well, this sustainable forest economy has been run by foresters in Polish forests for 100 years and is conducted, I want to say, effectively, successfully. If you accept the state's claims in the questions, you might actually ask how the forests in Poland are still in the shape they are, if the foresters would have to conduct such a reckless policy, which you are talking about. This policy is well thought out and, above all, takes account of this, in order to maintain the continuity of the forest in order to preserve all its functions. I am talking here, in particular, about social functions, natural functions and economic functions. The economic function today is the element that has the most different types of consequences. But neither the social function nor the natural function will be carried out without the proper economy of the State Forests. You say that there is a logging of trees in Poland. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a misconception. In Poland, there are generally no clippings. This is simply impossible under the law, not at all. If we're using the word "cutout" today, that's what we're talking about. only clippings carried out in the context of large investments. In particular, we are talking about road investments, for which there is indeed a clipping of the stand, and here we have a change of destination of the land on which the forest was present, which is specifically about the transport lifts. This is one of those cases where we can actually say that there's been a clipping - unless we're also talking about some other local investment, where there's been a permanent deforestation of land on which the forest existed before. Otherwise, we cannot say that there is a policy of this kind, as you say, because, according to the rules in force, whenever foresters in some area acquire wood, within 5 years, the rules clearly say this - a new generation of trees must be planted in this area. And it's been happening for 100 years. This was the case and earlier, but for 100 years since the State Forests were responsible for forest management in Poland, we can say that thanks to the fact that we acquire wood in this way, we maintain the continuity of forests. Moreover, we can say very clearly that we have preserved the wealth of forests in Poland. Everyone who takes care of this professionally will tell you clearly: for 100 years of the functioning of the State Forests in Poland no species, no species - nor animals, nor the natural wealth we have. On the contrary, we pay attention to protecting all the elements of the natural wealth we have, this biodiversity. According to the Forests Act, you know it well, we are pursuing a policy according to the plans of the forest device. Such a plan shall be drawn up, in the context of a public consultation, in accordance with the principles of environmental protection, with a strategic decision on the impact, every 10 years. And what we're getting today was approved 10 years ago. What I as Minister today, as representative of forestry and hunting, will be implemented in the next 10 years. After me, other ministers will do the same. After all, in the plans of the forest equipment, we care not only to describe the state of the forest every 10 years, but to describe how many wood can be harvested there, how to this wood is to be obtained, how to preserve biodiversity in this area, how to preserve all ecosystems, all valuable elements of the forest in a given area, for each fortress in Poland. And this is a basic document. How do we obtain wood in Poland as part of our plans for forest equipment? In three ways. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For today, it's... Two sentences, Mr. Marshal, I will. Namely, we get 1/3 in general under the so-called. The sanitary cuts that we have to do, because the trees are dying, are some natural phenomena, as part of the care cuts we get another 1/3, and only 1/3 of the wood is obtained within the so-called. Distinctive. And this is a general policy that is conducted in the woods. But once again I want to say very clearly that when it comes to most of the wood harvested in Poland, these are sanitary and care measures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u59	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u60	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! We asked you something else, but you decided to let us know what the situation was in the woods. On the other hand, I wanted to address other points. Namely in 2022 the woodworking industry can purchase wood for production according to the principle: 70% weight of wood can be bought based on shopping history, 30% - on the wood market. This situation causes entrepreneurs to fight for raw material, resulting in price increases. In this context, three questions. First: What were the average prices in the foresaws in the fourth quarter 2021 and in the first quarter 2022 according to the commercial and species groups for pine, spruce, beech and oak? Second question: How will war in Ukraine affect the functioning of the whole wood industry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the third question: Is the Directorate-General of State Forests considering possible changes in the timber sales system in Poland in the context of the war in Ukraine and the uncertain political situation in Russia and Belarus, which also affects the Polish timber sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u61	Thank you very much. We'll ask you...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u62	Mr. Marshal, one more thing. I'd like that information in writing, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u63	Mr. Speaker! Mr. Marshal! Of course, I will also answer in writing, especially since the questions you ask are often repeated. They are addressed to us also within the framework of the interpellation which the state from different formations directs to us. Not only Members of the opposition, but also Members of the United Rights are asking about these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the part where I wanted to address issues related to the quantity of wood harvested in Poland. I'll give you the numbers. We'd like to pass on the data from the CUS. In the last 5 years, this quantity of wood which is harvested in Poland is as follows: in 2015 the State Forests gained 36.5 million m. Ladies and gentlemen, the demand for wood is now, I would say, gigantic. Every quantity that appears on the market is sold. You can say that there is a battle for wood in many areas. This is also due to factors related to sanctions imposed because of the war in Ukraine. I will remind you that only from the eastern direction came to Poland every year, e.g. over 2 million chips for energy. This is not in the Polish energy system at the moment. Also from the eastern direction, 1 million m came to Poland. Please also bear in mind that, if we are talking about the phenomenon of exports of wood, it is not entirely possible to regulate the market because we are operating in the common European market. Today we do not have a legal instrument that would allow us to block exports of wood from Poland, e.g. Germany. [[What about China?]] We don't, but we're trying to make it. Namely I announce that there will be a change in the rules for the sale of wood. If those who have a history of selling wood, which was created to satisfy our market, export wood... We're working on losing that story. It can't be that we use history and wood at the same time... Here is the full agreement with your Members. There are companies that have so-called companies. history, benefit from preferences, benefit from the fact that the State Forests sell them timber as part of this story, provide them with raw material and then export it. I'm sure we'll want to review it from this side. We are already scoring additional wood processing on site. The aim is to reduce this phenomenon, which is certainly unfavorable - we are talking about exports.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u64	We're going slowly to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: On the other hand, the fact that wood flows to China is not true. Statistics say there's about 200,000 coming to China. These are not large quantities, but this should also be limited in some way. This is already a matter of talking to the Ministry of Development. We're working on that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szlachta will be asking a question about the prospect of financial support for the construction of the Resovia Athletics Centre in Rzeszów Podkarpackie. The question is addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. On his behalf, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism will be responsible for Mr Jacek Osuch. Here you go, Mr Andrzej the Noble.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the real prospect of building the Podkarpackie Athletics Center Resovia in Rzeszów. This perspective can be close if three entities: the local government of Rzeszów, the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship and the Ministry of Sport and Tourism will close the financial assembly of this investment. Its cost was estimated at PLN 120 million. It is worth briefly recalling the history of the creation of this object. Podkarpackie region is currently the only voivodship that does not have a professional athletic center. The concept of building this regional centre was already established in 2010 and was ready to be implemented in 2011. It included the creation of a seven-track athletic treadmill around the football field of the Resovia Rzeszów football club. Finally, in May 2019 a new, extensive, comprehensive modernization of the entire stadium with athletic infrastructure and nearly 10 thousand were established. Places on the stands. The total cost of this investment, as I have already mentioned, according to this new project is PLN 120 million. Currently, in the budget of the city of Rzeszów the amount of PLN 30 million is secured for this purpose, and in the budget of the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship - the amount of PLN 15 million with a declaration of security of the remaining amount of PLN 15 million in the following financial year. The investor, the city of Rzeszów, expects a grant from the ministry of PLN 60 million. Minister, what are the current possibilities of receiving this amount from the Ministry's budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u66	Thank you very much. I now ask Minister Jack Osuch to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Let me put it this way: I have a statement in front of me, a very hot statement. I do not know if you have seen them. This statement of the town of Rzeszów, in which this city clearly states that all funds on the investor's side, i.e. the town of Rzeszów, will be fulfilled, guaranteed, i.e. the 30 million. Maybe I'll read it to make it sound credible. In connection with the submitted notification of the project Mon. Construction of the Podkarpackie Athletics Centre at ul. Wyspiańskiego 22 in Rzeszów to the investment programme of particular importance for sport I inform you that at the moment financial assistance from the Podkarpackie Voivodeship was obtained in the amount of PLN 15 million, with the amount of PLN 30 million requested and declared. It was also addressed to the management board of the voivodship... It is about the prose of an application to the sejm of the voivodship for another 15 million PLN. In view of the above, I declare that if the local government does not provide financial assistance for another PLN 15 million, which would give a total amount of PLN 30 million, steps will be taken immediately to secure own resources. We understand that the financial assembly on the part of the town of Rzeszów was carried out. At the Ministry of Sport at the moment we are working to prepare the agreement and send it to the investor so that this agreement is signed and implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, one more question will also be asked by Mr Andrzej Szlachta.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u69	I am very pleased, Minister, with this declaration. You can see that this investment is at the heart of not only the local authorities but also the ministry - for example because at this facility 30,000. young people practice this beautiful discipline, which gave Poland the most medals at the last Olympics. Among the participants of the Olympics were also pupils from Resovia Club in Rzeszów. As for our goal, we have absolute compatibility, and the Minister has outlined it. I am pleased that the declaration of the town of Rzeszów to secure an amount of another 15 million, if the seymik had not made such a declaration, is sufficient for the Ministry to be able to make a substantive decision to grant the grant. Finally, is there any possibility that this financial year will be able to mobilise some funds (the bell) to start an investment? Because there's already a building permit.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u70	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u71	Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! I think so, but the ball's on the investor's side. If an investor says so, he'll go into time... On our side, we're ready. Probably - I don't know - in two weeks such a deal can reach you, so it's a matter of only on the investor's side at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u72	And now we're very clear. Now Members Marek Kwitek and Jan Duda, in the order in which I said, will be asking questions about the situation on the apple market in connection with the introduction by the government of an extraordinary adjustment aid for apple producers. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. So we ask Mr Mark Kwitek to ask us a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The State emergency aid scheme for fruiters was introduced on 25 April 2022 due to the very difficult situation in the dessert apple market. Extraordinary disturbances in the functioning of the dessert market were mainly caused by restrictions on access to the Belarusian market, the introduction of embargoes, but also by war, Russian aggression against Ukraine. The supply chains across Ukraine have also broken down, such as Kazakhstan or Mongolia, where our exporters sent apples. We must also be aware that 200,000. t, because this is about the number of apples exported mainly to Belarus, caused that extraordinary steps had to be taken to help sadists, because storage costs in refrigeration chambers increased, and because of the price - when there was no demand, when the western market was also to a large extent filled - sales were completely inefficient. The seedlings often sold industrial dessert apples as apples. That is why Mr Duda and I are very pleased that we have initiated a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture, where it was decided to pay 30 gr for each kilogram of apples sold to processing plants. I am aware that at this point the programme is still in the process of being implemented, but whether the objectives that were intended to be downloaded from the market are 200,000. t apples, also caused an increase in the price of dessert apples? How did the seedlings (The Bell) or processing plants react to this? Here is a huge thank you also to Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk for the fact that in a way, you can say, this instant program was launched by him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u74	Thank you very much. You will answer Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much for intervening with Mr Duda, for coming to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. This meeting resulted in the reaction of Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, which resulted in the government's response. A special, extraordinary mechanism was put in place, i.e. adjustment aid for apple producers. Of course, the situation related to the Belarusian embargo, the situation related to the war in Ukraine is a food crisis all over the world. Of course, we have talked many times about Poland's security as a net exporter and about export records of agri-food products for more than 37 billion euros. However, the problem was caused by these factors. The problem was caused by factors independent of Polish fruiters, and we know very well that we are the leader in Europe when it comes to apple production. Ladies and gentlemen! This mechanism is being implemented. As far as numbers are concerned, for today more than 66 000 have been removed from the market. t. That's 33%. the maximum quantity of apples that may be covered by the mechanism. This picture from the market of these dessert apples, the funding of these apples, in order to be able to allocate them to industrial apples in order to process them, cost the state budget by now about 20 million PLN. We can do it three times this amount because we're talking about 200,000. a. Right now we have 66,000. a. As far as prices are concerned, many politicians, including non-parliamentarians, have said that we will disrupt the market, that we will destroy the market, that processors, these bad intermediaries, will cause apples to be 20-30 gr per kilogram, that the state will pay 30 gr and nothing of this money will be consumed by these bad intermediaries. The figures are slightly different, ladies and gentlemen. At this point we have prices in plants from 53 gr to 66 gr. So these prices were maintained at the level prior to the introduction of the scheme. On the other hand, the program is to remove dessert apples from the market, which cannot cost 50-60 gr, so there is a surcharge of 30 gr. Thus, with payment, the farmer receives 83 gr per kilogram up to 96 gr. The programme therefore works, there are no unfair practices on the market. There was a great mobilization of companies that adapted to this program. Of course, there were risks that could have caused some market perturbations, while the programme was created in cooperation with Parliament, with the state, with Members who also intervened with Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, but also with farmers, with processing companies. We acted quickly because the program actually reacted to the market situation. There was no time - I don't know - to build such safeguards in the autumn that would operate on the market in a situation where there is no possibility of any perturbation, unfair practices. However, we have trusted processors in this difficult situation, and processors are fulfilling the program. As I say, we're in 1/3 when it comes to finalizing this program. You can ask if we spend all the money and what happens if we don't spend it. Money can be used for other purposes related to difficulties in the food markets in the European Union and in the world. Of course, we'd like to spend that money. But the question is whether, in a situation where the Belarusian embargo is being withdrawn if the programme is not fully implemented, it will indeed be a failure. I think that if we go back to market principles, the program was in place at the most important moment, which is to remove the surplus of the product that is not possible to sell, and at the same time we allow farmers in a difficult situation, when the costs are very high, to earn money that actually allows them to survive. Because it's not money that allows you to think in terms of big earnings. It is simply interventionism, this is a situation in which we are forced to do this kind of practice. And it should be pointed out that as far as apples and fertilisers are concerned, Poland is really a leader and pioneer in the application of these mechanisms, which we encourage the European Union as a whole. It is extremely important that, in a crisis situation, the Union also revise its approach to green governance, so that the Union revises its approach to food security. Of course, as a Union, we are food-safe, but I would not say that this must be the case in the future because we are also fighting hunger in Africa. If large volumes of Ukrainian cereals do not go to Africa, in the future there may be a very big problem with food and food prices, because there is a consumer hole. This hole needs to be patched up, you need to irritate the transportation of goods. Poland is able to pass about 600 thousand through its lines. t per month. There is also a big appeal of the entire Polish Parliament and proposals for the European Union to support railway and road investments in Poland so that we can not only secure Europe for the future in food and stabilise prices, but also (the bell) secure the whole world and Africa into this food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u76	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Jan Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From the information that comes from the seedlings, a very positive picture of the actions carried out emerges. However, there are also comments. I would like to draw attention to this and ask whether something can be changed in these matters. The first point is that the quantities declared to be withdrawn are too meticulous compared to the actual quantities transported to the processing plant. That's the problem. The second issue is the problem that arises with the fruitists who are associated with the producer groups. They declare to the group not all the amount of their production, they have a part to use and from this part they cannot very much withdraw these apples. Is there anything you could do about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more question. It's the first time we're really happy with the sadders and the processing plants, which means we're helping both. Is the Ministry working on some more systemic problem for years to solve this problem of apple processing, industrial apples? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u78	Thank you very much. And again, we ask Minister Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, we are aware of these difficulties so called. Officials. By programming further mechanisms, let us hope that we will not have to do this, while the situation is very dynamic. We are aware of these comments. These are comments from farmers, processors, as well as from parliamentarians who supported these mechanisms. Of course, in the next programming of such regulations, we will take into account these things related to the difficulties in running this programme, but at the same time, despite these delicate administrative difficulties, which in fact may have indicated in some way some difficulties for the sadists, for processors, we are showing the effectiveness of this programme, because this 20 million will be achieved because the payments of this money will be made by 30 September, this will be realized. We're already on the level, as I say, 66,000. t, i.e. 33% We've already done this program. As far as other support is concerned, of course there is support for fruit and vegetable producer organisations. In fact, through this, organizations can themselves do this interventionism. We encourage that we have a support mechanism that is not entirely dependent on the state. We will, of course, be programming these interventions, but we should be supported by organisations which themselves will be able to intervene on the market. And that's what we do. As far as betting is concerned, 48 processing plants took part in the programme, so it is a very large group. After 3 weeks of operation of this mechanism, this programme managed to remove 66 000 from the market. t apples, i.e. 33% the expected overall effect, and about 20 million will already be allocated. This amount is actually growing all the time, so next week, meeting for example. In Parliament, in two weeks' time, we will be able to talk about much higher amounts and a much higher percentage. In the end, I would like to point out that I do not consider as a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development that if the programme is not implemented in its entirety, it will be a failure. I believe that this will be a success, because in a situation where there was a crisis, the programme was functioning, and in today's reality, in which this Belarusian embargo is abolished and we already hear that entrepreneurs, farmers start trading, it turns out that this market is diversifying. On the one hand, there is state aid for the removal of dessert apples, and on the other hand there is the opportunity to trade. So I think the program was perfectly applied because it was at this difficult time and did not cause the price of dessert apples to fall, e.g. 30 gr. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this I thank Parliament, thank you Members for this intervention in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u80	Thank you very much. Further questions will be addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. They will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Andrzej Gawron. They will concern exports of goods from Ukraine through Polish ports and transport routes. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marek Gróbaryczyk. Well, here you go. There's a pretty complicated construction here. The first part of the first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, and the second part will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u81	Exactly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Due to the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine, our neighbours are economically destabilised, resulting in small production and production and the difficult transport of these raw materials to other countries. Many of the elements of the transport chain could be provided by Poland, e.g. transport of agricultural goods through our ports. I would like to ask: Do the capacity and capacity of Polish ports allow assistance in the handling of cereals and other goods such as coal and iron ore from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u82	Minister! There was a pandemic, now it's war. How does the current situation affect the current work of Polish ports? How many goods have been reloaded? Perhaps the Minister would compare this with the previous years and say, is this an increase and do we still have the potential to increase these transhipments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u83	I ask Minister Mark Grybarczyk to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, attention must be paid to the extremely difficult situation and tragedy that is happening in Ukraine. Therefore, as far as our actions are concerned, today mostly the implementation of transports is the only way to deliver or receive goods from Ukraine. Of course, within our ports, which are developing very dynamically. It should be noted that although we had a pandemic, although we had a very difficult time in terms of the economic downturn, Polish ports managed at that time and as in 2020, although there was a pandemic, they exceeded 100 million overloaded goods, so now they confirmed this upward trend - last year is 113 million tons of overloaded goods. This is, of course, linked to the whole investment and development process, especially when it comes to the search for new transport lines, building international alliances. Here the most important role is played by the DCT port in Gdansk, which last year reloaded nearly 2 million TEU containers. This is an extraordinary achievement showing the developmental directions in this area. Another thing is that Polish ports have to cope not only with Ukraine's aid, but also with the current security of supply of goods, above all with regard to coal, because all transport, which will come to Poland today, will take place through Polish ports. Therefore, we need to secure nearly 12 million tons of goods, coal, which will affect Poland, so we need to prepare and secure mostly components, as well as unloading, handling and export opportunities in this area. For many years there have been very intensive investments in port expansion, including. A few days ago the construction of the shipping track from Szczecin to Świnoujście was completed. This in an extremely important way increases the capacity for transhipment in Szczecin itself. This is a de facto inland port, because it is not with direct access to the sea. He had the biggest problems in terms of increasing his handling capacity. As a result of such actions, much larger units will be able to enter Polish ports. Ports, in terms of economic construction, operate in a similar way to ports around the world, primarily European ones. Port management is only and exclusively managing in this respect. As far as transhipments are concerned, this is already done on the basis of private companies that are selected by tendering or obtaining concessions. They are intended to carry out transhipments on a given site. The statutory port is prohibited from carrying out such transhipments, therefore it is only and exclusively concerned with the development of infrastructure and the preparation of areas for transhipment and selection of operators. The operators who carry them out today and are extremely important to us precisely in terms of launching additional areas and the possibility of transhipment of goods from Ukraine have started these transhipments. We expect it to be very repeatable, because today the most dangerous element for us in this respect is the fact that we would have to break the existing agreements. Ports are developing extremely rapidly, so the construction of transhipments based on goods from Ukraine must be done in a complementary manner. Therefore, these transhipments take place in a spot manner for the time being, let's call it that. Discussions which are conducted, whether on an intergovernmental or interministerial level, are intended to create a permanent source of supply and thus to bind to long-term contracts which will permanently secure the goods being exported or imported into Ukraine and thus also secure operators who will be able to carry out these transhipments as confirmed by the contract. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u85	Thank you very much. And the second question, additionally, will be asked by Andrzej Gawron... Oh, excuse me, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u86	They often confuse us. Minister! Additional question. I wanted to ask whether, as a result of the current situation, further infrastructure investments are required to increase port capacity. In part, you answered in the first question. I don't know if there's anything else you'd like to make up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u87	Thank you very much. Minister Marek G grubarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u88	Thank you very much. Of course, I mentioned a few investments. Today, however, we can confirm that investment in ports, generally in the maritime economy, is nearly 20 billion. These are the reconstructions of railway roads, these are the deepening and expansion of access to ports, these are the construction of breakwaters or the modernisation of the quay in all ports. Of course, we planned through a specialty which was adopted, a very wide programme of port expansion: this is of course the construction of the Central Port in Gdańsk, the construction of an external port in Gdynia and the construction of a container terminal in Świnoujście. These are investments that must certainly be speeding up now. Of course, other elements are those which protect us energy-efficiently, i.e. the construction of a breakwater under the new FSRU terminal in Gdansk or the expansion of the oilport. The aim is therefore, on the one hand, to safeguard our needs, but today is an extraordinary situation and it is necessary to accelerate the implementation of all investments, so to begin the construction of agroports or cereal ports precisely for transhipments with Ukraine, as well as to start construction of bulk terminals that will safeguard the need for coal ore ore or other bulk goods that will appear from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u89	Thank you very much. Here's another question. They will be asked by Mr Maciej Kopiec and Mr Robert Obaz in that order. This is a question about government action to increase energy efficiency in Poland in the context of the next heating season and prices and availability on the market of solid fuels such as coal, pellets or eco peas. It shall be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will reply, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, to the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Ireneusz Zosta. So now I ask Mr Maciej Kopc to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The heating season is already behind us, but the prices of solid fuels such as coal, pellets or eco peas do not fall at all, and they even break more records. Only in the first quarter of 2022, from January to April, coal increased by 26%, pellets by 19% and wood by 24%. In total, average coal prices have increased by 101% since January 2021. The embargo for coal from Russia has made it impossible to bring coal from Russian mines, while domestic producers are unable to cover demand. Demand does not decrease at all, because people are already gathering supplies for the winter, fearing even higher prices and even greater shortages for sellers. It should be stressed that coal in Poland was missing even before the war in Ukraine, and the introduction of the embargo aggravated these problems. These are the effects of stubbornness in maintaining an outdated mix of energy, the lack of thinking about alternative energy sources and populist policies. The arrival of the next heating season means great problems for those who heat up with coal and pellets. For many domestic budgets it will be a choice between food and warmth. There is also a risk that garbage will be burned. Is the government planning any measures to cushion the impact of the embargo on the Polish market against these problems that Polish households are already facing today? If so, what, in what perspective and with what assumptions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u91	I'm asking Minister Ireneus for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Members, We do have an emergency situation. It can be said that Russia has declared war on raw materials, economic war, energy war. The blackmail related to gas prices and gas blackmail, but also related to raw materials such as coal and oil, has made it necessary to conduct a strong policy by European countries, including Poland, in the context of imposing an embargo on Russian energy raw materials. Poland is here setting an example for other European countries, as it is possible to abandon imports of fuels and energy raw materials from Russia in a short time. This must necessarily generate problems related to the availability of raw materials or the acquisition of these raw materials from other alternative sources, from other countries such as Australia, South Africa, Colombia, Indonesia or other directions. At the moment, very decisive measures are being taken to ensure the supply of coal for the winter for both individual customers and for system users, system heat, as well as for industry. This is an ad hoc action that must take place in order to secure Polish customers in this difficult situation. [[Louder, please.]] I would like to say that Polish customers will not run out of coal for winter. [[And the price?]] But the essence of this question, as I understand it, is to increase energy efficiency. In the long term, the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government, has set up measures for energy transformation, diversification of generation of energy and heat towards increasing the share of renewable sources. I'm going to say that I'm in such a good position that yesterday I participated in the announcement of the report by an independent think tank, i.e. The Institute of Renewable Energy - every year such a report is presented - about the photovoltaics market in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, we have something to show for it. Namely in 2021 Poland became the second market in Europe after Germany? Speaking of which: investments in RES, investments in renewable energy sources, especially in photovoltaics. The capacity installed last year is 3700 MW and Poland is second in the EU after the Federal Republic of Germany. The second good news is that we exceeded 10 GW of solar power installed in photovoltaics in March this year. Today we already have nearly 19 GW of power installed in various RES technologies. Six years ago it was less than 7 GW, and in 2025, in three years' time, it will be 28 GW. And I say this not on the basis of forecasts, but on the basis of contracts concluded in RES auctions over the last 4 years and the terms of connection issued by distribution system operators. I'm going back to energy efficiency. The government, as you know, has launched a number of support programmes, such as the Clean Air Priority Programme with a budget of PLN 103 billion. So far, applications submitted under this programme... I'll find it right here, just a second. [[You have to tell the truth that people did it.]] Yes, people do, thanks to the fact that the government through the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management pays for investments, among others. My electricity programme, Clean air programme. [[Prosumers are waiting for a paycheck.]] Excuse me, sir. I answer Mr Obaz's question from the Left, and Mr Gadowski is rude because you are not giving me an answer. [[Mr. Marshal, why do you allow Mrs. Skowronska to testify all the time?]] Mr. Marshal, I would very kindly ask you to call your Member to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u93	Excuse me, Minister. I ask my fellow Members on this side of the House to allow the Minister, who answers the questions of his fellow Members in the Left. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Contacts. Clean air - 437 000. Applications submitted, PLN 7600 million, programme My current - PLN 1800 million, over 440 thousand. applications submitted. Currently, there is another edition of my 4.0 current. Here we finance not only photovoltaics, but also energy storage systems, heat storage systems, as well as household energy management. We are introducing further programmes, such as a warm apartment for multi-family, multi-premises buildings, because Clean air is dedicated to single-family buildings, the programmeMy heat is co-financing for heat pumps - from 7 to 21 thousand. On a case-by-case basis. In addition, important information - at the moment we are preparing a new edition of the programme (the bell) Clean air. There will be increased subsidy levels, but also income levels, so that a larger group of Poles can benefit from aid for the exchange of heating sources and the thermomodernization of buildings. The question is asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem is that it's not the government that goes to the store and buys pellets or eco peas or coal or electricity, it's the proverbial Kowalski, who today is struggling with the problem that this year will not spend 5,000 on pellets. Like last year, and about 12-13 thousand. for the heating season, because you use approx. 5 t of pellets to heat a single-family cottage. Minister! You told me about all the things the Poles did. Some people from the third stage, as far as photovoltaics are concerned, did not receive a grant (Applause), nor do we have an expanded network. Today the revenues of energy companies, mines are really at a very, very high level, they earn a lot. And I'm sure you're happy because for the second year the dividend to the budget will be huge, but today we have to help the Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why, Minister, we don't buy... Ukraine has a huge surplus of electricity, it has been connected to the European network, so it is easy to buy much cheaper electricity from that direction than in Poland and deliver it to homes, to enterprises, so that we probably have 30% cheaper electricity. Such prices are today in Ukraine. There is really a huge allowance, because the east of Ukraine, due to the war, does not take electricity, and unfortunately the nuclear power plant cannot shut off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u95	We'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We take all steps to reduce energy prices, heat prices, as well as raw materials such as coal. Covering allowances, energy allowances for the household - from 400 to 1500 PLN, depending on the number of people in the family, were introduced, depending on the level of income. This is over PLN 4 billion which have been earmarked for this purpose. The allowances are paid without obstacles. Moreover, with regard to heat energy prices, you know that the government has reduced excise duty, VAT, all the charges, public tributes as far as possible, to the minimum level permitted by European law, to all fuels, raw materials, including coal. Therefore, there is also an action taken by the Polish Mining Group - an online shop, industry, where we can buy coals of different assortments at prices below 1 000. zł per t, but these are complementary measures. [[Only coal can't be bought in real life, Minister.]] Please? [[I am saying that this coal cannot be bought because the companies have organised coal shops so that it is not available to an individual at the price you are talking about.]] We support, as far as possible, an increase in mining in Polish mines, in order to pass this most difficult, nearest winter safely in terms of prices, and ensure the availability of coal fuel. We also support those who have so far imported coal from the Russian direction to ensure delivery from abroad. But, ladies and gentlemen, this situation is not only about Poland. As regards the rise in energy and fuel prices, including coal, please look at the spot prices in the ports of ARA - Antwerp - Amsterdam - Rotterdam. There's a determinant. Today coal costs more than $300 per tonne and the government takes all the necessary measures to provide cover, among others. for system heating which uses coal and gas. We are in the process of analyzing this market in order to protect Polish citizens from the rise in energy prices caused by the increase in raw materials prices before the next heating season. I cannot agree with you that this was all done by Polish citizens. A great deal of respect, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are pleased that Poles are a creative and economic society capable of caring for their own energy bills, but if the government did not put in place a support programme, mainly clean air programmes, that my electricity or my heat, Polish citizens would not have this incentive to make an investment decision, a very important decision in their household, in case of changing heating sources to greener ones. For example, a heat pump or heat pump, a thermomodernization of a building or the establishment of a photovoltaic installation. There are already over a million prosumers in Poland who have benefited from funding. I will also answer about the programme My current ¿ 3.0 which was last year, operated until the end of June this year. All applications will be considered and payments will also be made. At the moment, there is a great mobilisation in the national environmental fund to close that programme by examining all proposals. At the moment, the next phase of the programme is already running.My current is 4.0. We are waiting for further stakeholders to submit their applications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u97	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the construction of the Central Communication Port together with the railway investments and the accompanying threat of expropriation in several voivodships will be discussed at this meeting, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u98	There will be two representatives, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u99	That's the information I'm verifying. In the second place, Mr Maciej Lasek will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yes, I see the Minister. The fifth year in a row, the least effective creation of the economic thinking of the current power: CPK is very effective in converting millions of PLN of public money and growing into hundreds of newly employed, guarded hectares, which are supposed to bear the largest in this part Europe is surrounded by a network of roads, tracks, stations and who knows what else. That's how you do it, Minister, so you're talking about this program, like you're trying to build us Poland all over again. Meanwhile, apart from the swelling pockets of the CPK board members so far, nothing You can't see. Secondly, no one knows if, why, when and where this airport is really going to be built. Thirdly, most importantly, investment in the field, as you can see, but human injury behind the threshold. And with this injury we come here today, Minister, because you don't seem to know much about what people think and feel when they hear that the airport or the high-speed railroad, God forbid, will ruin their lives. [[Applause]] So you started this project, that in a moment half of Poland will tell you: there is no our consent. This will be said by all those who would have to take homes, fields, farms and even public buildings to create a network of new communications connections. For the sake of clarity, Minister, neither I nor hundreds of citizens who ask Members to intervene are among the opponents of the country's development, to modernise its structure, to improve the integration of space. I didn't imagine that she was going to run through the Szymanski salon in Mileszki and split the estate in half, just as I didn't imagine that suddenly, you don't know why, to bribe the locals in Birkenau, to build a railway station, and you don't know what at all. I wasn't imagining that. And that's why it's growing, and there's going to be rebellion, because you can't build a country on human harm. It's not the investment itself that's causing this anxiety, this anxiety, it's your inability, your wiles and your greed. You've wasted almost five years, and interested citizens don't know anything, they don't know anything. The longer waiting time for binding decisions makes thousands of people and habitats suspended. Lands and houses in free circulation, construction permits issued, constructions started and just completed, loans taken and over the head uncertain whether it will not be necessary to give up all of this in a moment. So-called. High-speed rail consultations have turned into a caricature of consultation. By the way, on Big Friday, only on the Internet, without responding to the attention of the locals. And finally, the most important thing. If there are expropriations - and if there is an investment, there will be - what compensation will be? I think that's gonna come up with a lot of questions today. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u101	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Maciej Lask's applicants. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u102	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! It is estimated that only in the planned construction of the airport will it be necessary to destroy 500-600 houses and find a new place to live and work for... Yeah, for how many people? Because the company doesn't really answer that question. Under construction so-called. Speakers, or railway lines, need seven times more land - 20,000. ha. It is certain that the number of houses that had a misfortune to be on the route of this investment is many times higher. What are the numbers? Construction is supposed to start at the end of next year, but concrete numbers aren't dropping. Does the government know how many homes will be demolished? How many families will be extorted from their possessions? Because it's not the same. How many people would that be? It should be remembered that expropriations will affect not only residents, but also companies. So we ask: How many companies will have to close down their business? How many people are gonna lose their jobs because of this? For the land under the airport you predicted a voluntary acquisition program. How many transactions have been concluded so far, and what percentage of land does this cover? Finally, the last question: How much will all this cost? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an old dilemma, 50 Members and Members... [[Two minutes was announced.]] Just because it's been announced doesn't mean I can't quit again. I'm asking you this. There are 50 people reported - that's 100 minutes. There's 90 minutes for the discussion, and as you know, it's a mandatory deadline. The answers to your questions from the department are half an hour. 90 minutes minus half an hour is 60 minutes. We have 100 minutes. In this respect, do you want us to do that, that there are 2/3 Members, and that there are no 1/3 Members? Do we do that that we give 1 minute and if anyone needs it very much, we're going to extend it a little longer? [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[No, two minutes.]] Two minutes. I understand you're deciding that in a certain... [[One minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a decision. I'm asking the pages. I take it you don't resent the fact that 50 of these people are gonna show up 30, right? [[Voice from the room: No, one minute.]] [[We don't.]] I'm looking at the platform. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, there's another side of the room. One minute, please.]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, I know there's another one. I understand that when we cut, you don't blame me at this point. I'm shutting down the discussion, that's all. As it was agreed, two minutes. [[One minute. I'm one minute away, too.]] But hello, hello, ladies and gentlemen, Fame of the way, if you wouldn't mind... Ladies and gentlemen, can you look at the marshal for a moment? If you would like to take advantage of my experience - it is not long, because 3-year-old - it was not such a situation that there were 2 minutes, because then there is a fight. I'm offering you one minute, and the minute someone wants to say something, I'm gonna prolong it. [[And you're not going to turn off the microphone like Terlecki?]] I won't. You know me. I'm setting the speaking time - one minute... I would also like to ask you to respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Marcin Horala. I'm sorry, Minister, for having this conversation, but I wanted to make the rules. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed by the questions of the current information applicants, because I was hoping that maybe this time it would work out in a way... [[We haven't asked them yet.]] I was hoping that at least this time we could have a discussion on the substance of the biggest investment programme, infrastructure in Poland's history. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, so maybe I'll introduce this element. [[Wait a minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the transport system of Poland - we have done this analysis, it was an element of a strategic location study - and we compare it with the transport systems of the highest developed countries in the world, we see that in the Polish transport system we have considerable deficiencies. The CPK investment programme is a programme to complete these shortcomings, to bring Poland to the top of the league when it comes to global economies when it comes to transport systems, and this is a very important element for our economy and for our society to make this last step towards being a highly developed country, to catch up and exceed the EU average. Good transport system, good access, good transport are undoubtedly key elements of the country's socio-economic development. And what is missing in Poland if we compare it with comparable sizes of highly developed countries? Firstly, there is a lack of a large international airport at which a national carrier could offer a network of connections, intercontinental connections. This whole segment of the aviation market is being given free of charge abroad to Poland and the policy that you have pursued in your own governments by promoting a distributed model of small, unprofitable airports and relying only on the transport system, namely the policy of pushing the pockets of foreign corporations, low-cost lines and providing an expansion area for Lufthansa hubs in Frankfurt and Munich. This lack in Polish infrastructure will be removed by the construction of a new, large, international airport, which, incidentally, is a necessity due to the fact that Chopin Airport has practically exhausted its capacity. [[What about the regionals?]] Secondly, a whole range of railway connections are missing in Poland. The rail system in Poland has never been designed from the point of view of the current Poland and its economic needs, its social needs. We have a history here. from the time of the partitions, from the time of the destruction of war, from the time of the construction of infrastructure in the Polish People's Republic aimed at the military objectives of the Warsaw Agreement or finally from the 1990s, when neoliberal governments led to the destruction of thousands of railway connections, to the destruction of infrastructure, to the destruction of stations and stops. This is another lack that we need to remove, and it is particularly important in terms of society. Finally, we lack the high-speed rail system. The rail system in Poland can be compared to the situation we had in the road industry about 20 years ago when we practically did not have motorways or expressways. All developed countries, e.g. South Korea, Japan, China, France, Spain, Germany have high-speed rail systems. And we can -- because time goes by inexorably, it's very limited -- to say that they're probably right. Let us take such a working assumption that such a system is also needed for the development of the country. All these needs correspond to the investment programme of the Central Communication Port. Work related to it actually, as it is here mentioned, have been going on for 5 years. He's off-level, absolute zero. Let me remind you that the average time of construction of the motorway or expressway standard under European Union legislation is 17 years from the first decision to be put into service. We're moving at a much faster pace. In fact, you have contradicted yourselves, because in one speech you can say that the work extends beyond measure and that it is carried out by a mistake. If you want to criticize, at least do it in a logically coherent way. Fight the CPK, fight the PiS, but don't fight the dual logic. [[There's no consultation.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As part of this programme, we have already done a whole range of analytical, planning and design work. We designed the whole new transport system of Poland, as I mentioned, a strategic location study together with a strategic environmental impact assessment and these works have been completed. Currently, we are at the stage of advanced preparatory work. 1.3 thousand. One kilometer out of 2,000. km of new railway lines is at the stage of technical and environmental studies, and the first element of this new system, i.e. the high-speed tunnel near Łódź - at the stage of construction projects and already design works. At the same time as regards airport investment, the destination, the preferred location was established in December 2021 and made public. We are finishing work on masterplan, a strategic partner is chosen - Incheon airport in South Korea, which is one of the 3-4 best in terms of quality of service or technological advancement of airports in the world. And this cooperation is going very well. We've created a passenger transport model. We created high-speed rail standards, that's twenty-several volumes. This system does not exist in Poland and needs to be designed. This job has been done. The CPK is successfully acquiring EU funds. More than PLN 120 million have already been obtained from CEF instruments on the basis of competition. Where there is no national basket, e.g. in the case of CEF Reflow, where we must compete with Europe as a whole in terms of the quality of projects, the CPK's projects receive the highest marks. And thanks to them, in the last CEF Reflow, Poland gained the most funding from all European countries: 1/6 of the total pool that was to be divided across Europe, thanks, among others. CPK went to Poland. As the IATA International Air Carrier Association forecasts, Poland will need a significant increase in airport infrastructure capacity. If it had not been for the construction of the CPK airport, by 2060 Poland would have lost around 850 million passengers in total. Of course, these passengers would serve foreign airports. That's where they'd leave their money, that's where they'd be extra jobs, that's where the tax revenues would be. The interest of Poland is that all these factors should occur in Poland, not in Munich or Frankfurt. The idea is that to a large extent these passengers should be operated by LOT's Polish Airlines rather than Lufthansa. These are obvious things, but as you can see, not for everyone in this room, which unfortunately is dead. But that's the way it is. We're also at the final stage when it comes to selecting a master architect. The tendering procedure for contractors of construction works, etc., etc. shall end. In these tenders are launched by renowned, world's largest companies in cooperation with Polish companies. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a lot of talk here about railroad lines. It's almost $2,000. km of new railway lines. I understand that this is a shock to representatives or successors of the formation, which has eliminated thousands of kilometers of railway lines in Poland, which has deprived people of access in Poland. [[Lie!]] [[You're lying like Moravians.]] The question arises whether in times such as: Mr Tadeusz Syryczyk or under Mr Jerzy Buzek's rule, railway lines were destroyed or created in Poland. Remind me. 'Cause the facts are that they've been wiped out. [[Under your rule, you're shutting down all regional airports.]] At this point, you're tearing crocodiles over the bottom of the population who are supposed to be harmed in this investment process, but you haven't shed these tears in a situation where people have learned from day to day that they don't have access to work, that their children don't have access to school, that the connections they used have been eliminated. We will restore these connections. We have about 100 cities in Poland with more than 10,000 cities. residents who are completely deprived of access to rail transport, and a whole range of other cities that have very poor connections. Thanks to the CPK investment program, cities such as Jastrzębi-Zdrój, like Łomża, like a whole range of other cities excluded from rail transport will be able to obtain such connections. For a whole range of other cities, these connections will be really accessible and convenient. [[When?]] Let's look at, for example, Płock, a city in Mazowieckie, from which the connection to Warsaw is one, at an hour. 4.33 in the morning and lasts 2 hours. 40 minutes After the implementation of the CPK program, this access will take less than 1 hour. And there'll be a dozen calls a day. Let's look at other connections: for example Włocławek - Warsaw: 1 hour in place of 2 hours, Płock - Gdynia: 1 hour 40 minutes in place of 5 hours, Poznań - Kalisz: 35 minutes in place of 1.5 hours, Kalisz - Warsaw: 1 hour 20 minutes in place of the current 3 hours, Wałbrzych - Warsaw: 2 hours 35 minutes instead of 5 hours etc., etc. [[Do you know how long you're going to Poznan?]] This will be a breakthrough in the social and economic dimension for the Polish society. You're preying on people's fears because it's a shock. If there were no railway lines in Poland, and now 2 000 are being built under one investment programme. km, it raises understandable concerns. [[You're not building anything yet.]] Therefore, multi-stage consultations are important, first at the stage of the strategic location study, now at the stage of the technical and environmental study. [[There's no consultation. There are meetings.]] External companies, selected in a transparent tendering procedure, from which one can appeal, professionals, engineers, environmental specialists, lawyers examine the various steps so as to choose the most optimal ones that cause relatively least conflicts, although of course we know that there is never such an investment that would satisfy everyone. During the Platform's governments, a number of motorways or expressways were built and consultations were held on the same basis, studies were conducted, only that these consultations were less because the CPK not only met the statutory requirements for public participation in the investment process, but also a whole range of additional meetings, additional consultations, which are not required by law. Questions of this kind: How many companies? How many people? How many homes? Okay, so tell me how many houses, how many companies and how many people were exterminated when you were building buildings on Euro 2012 or highways. You didn't care about them then. Each expropriated person will receive fair compensation corresponding to the minimum market value of its property as assessed by an independent expert property valuer - a regulated profession, whose task is precisely to measure various types of property value - and some will get more. Besides, in this range (the bell) we will soon propose an amendment to the Real Estate Management Act, which will provide everyone with even more than the market value of their real estate. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. We move on to speeches and questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. At the same time, I am closing the list of persons who have been submitted for comment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the discussion about the Central Communication Port has been going through for weeks, and this is a discussion that is hostile to this investment, and our country's investment is very much needed. For 50 years, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the Central Communication Port. You took your own report on this case when you were in power. What happened? Ladies and gentlemen, 160,000. consultation on railway investments. This is the biggest consultation that has been conducted in Poland so far. It should be remembered that the airport is not only passenger traffic but also necessary for our country's cargo transport. The point is that this transport is taking place at other airports, in other neighbours, in other countries, and then the trucks that bring this cargo are passing through our roads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is undoubtedly a necessary and very necessary investment, whether you like it or not, and I know you like it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u107	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you to the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I ask you a very simple question: Have you finally counted how many people have been employed in various forms by the Central Communication Port? Because you've been counting for seven months. I asked a question on this issue in October Ub. I asked you a simple question: How many people do you employ? In what ways? What powers do they have? What qualifications? How many regionals are there because they're supposed to be? In what form were they chosen? What powers do they have? Where are their jobs located in the regions? The point is that you can ask them about such important investments. I have obtained a curiosity response, although probably in the opinion of the Minister very substantively, because at first he considered himself to be a very substantive person. So you said yes, I'll remind you, because you probably don't remember: PKP employs - and here you mentioned how many, the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways employs so many and so many, and the British high-speed company employs so many. And note (The Bell), I am now going to imagine and understand that it takes so much and so much to make this investment on the basis of these data. I also asked about regional representatives, and you told me that you don't have them, you don't hire them. Well, sir, I'm notifying you that in that case, in Greater Poland, there was a grift or still a grifter who claims to be a grifter. With a former voivode, he took pictures of himself, gave public information about the meeting. Not much, this representative still employs an employee and is an assistant to Mr PiS. And give me a specific and substantive answer to that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u109	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The strategic location study of Central Communication Port investment is a document setting out the framework for the implementation of projects for the reconstruction and expansion of our country's communication system, including corridors where new railway and road investments will be located. Minister, because in the study, of course, on a scale of 1 to 10,000. there may be some shifts and mistakes, I would very much like to ask for detailed, detailed information on how the railway lines will run in Zagłębie Dąbrowski. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Raś, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that in a rather arrogant tone the Minister answered the question which was presented today by Members, but on the other hand you also admitted that you are not a supporter of the low-cost airlines that the Poles use, and you are an opponent of regional airports and the development of these regional airports. I would like you to repeat this, because I will cut out your statement, which has already been archived, thank God, by the Sejm, and we will repeat it. I asked you a question a few days ago. You said it was a mix-up. You're confirming it today. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, we say that the last change in the form of an organization within the government transfers you to another ministry and gives you the opportunity (the bell) to bind the so-called. a special purpose company that you're planning to... I'd like you to admit it. In the explanatory memorandum, we cannot read it, this bill is now in the Senate, but I hope it will be corrected. You want to set up a special purpose company to fund the CPK out of the potential of the regional airports you're fighting. This is, I think, a scandal. That's a hidden funding you're not admitting to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u114	From this speaker, I appeal to you to acknowledge what you have already said on this speaker in your reply...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u116	It's about you admitting that you want to... [[Steal the airports.]] ...steal regional airports from Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u117	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, there were supposed to be 100 million passengers at the beginning, and now you're limiting it to 60. It'll probably end with what's acceptable in Okęc. [[It's gonna end up like Ostrołęka.]] This is the end of this huge investment, only by the way will regional airports fall - my previous speaker talked about it, it is extremely important - Kraków, Katowice. You have no idea how to ensure the arrival of passengers, and moreover, you are making decisions that are already blocking the development of those airports. And this is the most catastrophic. You use big words, and you really kill small regional airports. Of course, the communication lines cause demolitions in the Silesian Voivodeship. The inhabitants of Mikokov, Rybnik, the towns around them are misled by consultants that they will receive compensation that will enable reconstruction elsewhere. The question is, what kind of money is it gonna be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're talking about a real market valuation, probably today, which has nothing to do with actual value. One last thing, Marshal. What about Bielsk-Biała, the districts of Cieszyński, the zywieckie, where these lines do not reach? Where are the investments that relate to these places? You're excluding them from communications. And that's the truth about your politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak because of some experience, because I had the great privilege of supervising CPK as Deputy Minister of State Assets. [[I can tell by the effects.]] At that time, when I was supervising, a strategic advisor was elected, which is Seoul-Inchhon. Very good. I can assure you by way of opposition that the process was absolutely professional and transparent... [[It calms us down.]] ...and my assessment of Mr. President Nicholas Wild is as high as possible. [[Why did they call you off?]] I would like the opposition to be able to remove from the political dispute the implementation of important geopolitical, infrastructure investments, not regional, but large geopolitical investments, which are important for the Republic of Poland. The opposition criticized and stopped Baltic Pipe, the opposition criticized and stopped Vistula. [[That's not true!]] But I hope you will understand that for example. in the case of Opole Voivodship - when we are talking about spryszka nr 8, which construction will provide, among others. The fact that from Nysa to Warsaw the railway will be available in 3 hours and not in 5 hours - this is the development of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[To Baranów, not Warsaw.]] In other words, if there's any doubt on the part of... The Civic Platform is unsubstantiated, but for example the Left - Mrs Paulina Matysiak is an excellent railroad advocate - meet with the board, meet with Santa Wild, all the topics will be explained. This is a very professional company. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u121	Thank you very much. I don't know if you helped Mrs. Paulina Matysiak, she was usually on her own. There you go, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. Mr President, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The CPK, or actually the Central Airport, had a chance to become a model investment, but we already know it won't be. Today it is an example of scaled ambition and unrealistic assumptions. Today we know that it is primarily associated with the arrogance of power, the disregard for citizens and human harm. At the same time, it is an attack on regional ports in which we have invested - that is what I stress - 6 billion PLN. And the Minister wants to take on his conscience to waste these investments. Who's the port for? For LOT? [[For the Koreans.]] LOT is practically bankrupt today, with only a dozen or so long distance bells, so called. Long-haulami, and we know there's no prospect of expanding this fleet because you can't resuscitate a dead body. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, da.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In your speech, you said that this great civilization challenge was accompanied by a multi-stage consultation. How often do we hear about the protests arising precisely from the lack of these consultations or the disregard of local communities - from the councils of municipalities, powiats, seymists and NGOs. And it doesn't matter who's in charge, these protests are happening. This must therefore be taken into account and, however, more time should be spent on consultations. Secondly, you were talking about building 2,000. new high-speed railway lines. You even gave the data here: e.g. from Kalisz to Warsaw we will go in 1 hour 20 minutes. I would like to ask about these lines, among others. the one you were talking about, Poznan - Kalisz, Kalisz - Warsaw. When, according to your masterplan, will they be built and what is the expected cost of construction? The last question relates to the administrative budget CPK for the current year. What's the expense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u126	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! 3 days ago, on the initiative of Marshal Michał Kaminski and mine, as head of the Central Communication Port, a conference was held in the Senate. Communication portal for Poles or against Poles, conference with the participation of experts, professors, parliamentarians, self-government and social parties, those concerned by the construction of the CPK, and those who - not like the PiS - have it thought out and calculated. We've been looking for a reason to build this giant enterprise that's indebted to our country for decades to come. The next day, the PiS organized its conference, where Minister Horała repeated his visions, the ones we had the opportunity to hear about today as a mantra. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that shows that you're afraid that people see your mistakes, the minister's shoe, who takes care of himself, spending millions more on his salary. I have a question: How much money does this investment require? How long will the inhabitants of Baranów, Teresina, Viskitek live in uncertainty without knowing where they will be displaced and how much will their land be concentrated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u127	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please, Michael.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u128	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Beautiful city in Silesia - Mikołów. And an extremely beautiful place in this city - the Silesian Botanical Garden. Leisure, recreation, but also very important scientific research from the botany area. In a moment it will be 10 years, as Poles and Poles living in Silesia can enjoy this place. But there's no garden in your plans. It divides it exactly halfway across the high-speed rail line. And in Mikołów alone, 50 houses will have to be demolished. There are dozens of such places in Poland. Ornontovice, Belk, Palowice, Orzesze - only in Silesia. You'll probably hear about the next cities in a minute. In the EU guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, among others: is the protection of the environment and biodiversity, and right next to it is the care of the interests of the local civil environment. But it doesn't seem to matter to you at all. Meetings with local authorities, meetings with residents are probably only held (the bell) in order to be able to check that someone has carried out consultations. I support with all my heart the efforts of Mikołów's self-government: Mayor Stanisław Piechula, Councilman Łukasz Osmalak and his entire team. It's not too late. Yet, Minister, you can come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u129	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u130	I'm here, thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think it is a low self-esteem, including the feeling of inferiority of Poland towards other European countries, so as not to see the important benefits of this investment, not only economic but also military. A similar climate and atmosphere were accompanied by projects of the excavation of the Vistula mine and the construction of the tunnel to Świnoujście. The lack of aspiration to implement such projects will deprive us of the opportunity to bring us closer to the levels of economically strong and highly developed European countries, which, among others, are: This infrastructure is what they call them. And I do not mean to say that this is a risky and simple task, but for the need to build a new central airport in Poland analysts and experts have pointed out for many years. But I would like to ask the Minister: Is it true that the implementation of this investment (the bell) can generate up to 300,000. new jobs and will be an important drive for our economy and will bring tangible benefits to our entrepreneurs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An example of only one family from Wałbrzych, from the Lubiech district. Marta and Robert, 40, and their 13-year-old daughter. They sold the apartment four years ago. For three years, they moved five times, lived in an area with their parents and rented apartments. Building a house and renting was a huge financial effort. For a year now, they have been living in a harsh house, sharing one surface, and trying to finish the house with their own strength. From the moment we get information about the CPK's idea, they're under constant stress. The railroad is supposed to run through the middle of the house, just through their living room. Nothing can compensate for 4 years without a normal home and any sacrifices related to its construction. Another example. At the meeting in Witoszów Dolny, in the municipality of Świdnica, a question was asked (The bell) whether the meeting would be recorded and where the protocol would be available. Answer: This is not an official consultation that the protocol would have to come up with. The CPK representative called it an information and consultation meeting and said he'd make a note of it. She's nowhere to be found. The meeting didn't get any information on the scale of the displacements and demolitions... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...to approach the current green areas, recreation sites or monuments, the costs presented by BBF - the designer - three variants and the costs of the social option, which is for comparison. In Świdnica there is to be partially a new housing estate of single-family houses, whose residents moved in last year. I would like to ask the question: How are the opinions presented by the residents in surveys and e-mails, which they so strongly encouraged by the information meeting being taken into account - and at all? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[It was an appointment.]] [[It's a minute late.]] Why hasn't there been an official public consultation in our area so far... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't scream.]] ...about which Minister Horał is talking about passing with the truth? People will fight for life's work. The inhabitants of three villages in the municipality of Świdnica: Witoszowa Dolny, Mokrzeszowa, Bystrica Dolna, oppose the construction of high-speed railways. [[One and a half minutes late, Marshal.]] They created a petition signed by over 790 people.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u133	Madam, two minutes late.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u134	There's a council resolution. There's a social project that no one wants to talk about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u135	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u136	This is an outrage. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a surprise for you. None of this screaming is gonna happen. We agreed to extend some of our speeches. In fact, you've extended by two minutes. Please don't do this again. But it can be done with a good word, not a scream. Please, Mr... [[We'll remember at the interpellations.]] Ma'am, do you want me to go get Mr Terletki to show you how to cut votes? You guys really have a distance to this. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The inhabitants of my city of Bydgoszcz care that Bydgoszcz is not treated in the CPK program as a second or even third-class city. I therefore have three questions for the Minister and I ask very kindly for a written reply. How much money did the government allocate to railway investments linking Bydgoszcz with CPK and Warsaw? What is the in-kind-financial schedule for investments concerning CPK in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, in particular concerning railway connections between Bydgoszcz and CPK? Last question: How many people deal with investments concerning CPK in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, what are their tasks, how much is their average salary and what is the total cost of living of these people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! After all, no one is reasonable against major infrastructure projects. [[Voice from the room: What if it isn't?]] Why in Poland was the issue of highways and highway construction not the subject of great controversy, although there were also human problems? Because there was widespread acceptance. In my opinion, there are alternative locations. For the Central Communication Port, for example, on the grounds of the State Treasury. Under Rawa there is almost 700 ha of State Treasury land. This membrane is, I think, the project is still a PRL, because it was the location from that time. I'm not against the CPK, it's about rationalization and social acceptance. The second point - the so-called question. Speech. After all, there was the Y project, which ran partly after the existing infrastructure and over the areas that are available. There was acceptance for that, too. After all, it was a project made by state services. These projects are here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] E.g. The former Minister can confirm that. In my opinion, the aspirations of a country that wants to develop, which wants to have a good communication infrastructure, including social feelings, should be met somewhere. If, in an excessive way, I say, we violate what is socially acceptable, even the biggest and best investment projects will have trouble. That is why I think that we should use what is already our acquis, and we are throwing in the basket what was developed - Minister Polaczek will admit that it is really so - and we start all over again, as if Poland started at a given moment. I realize this isn't easy, but, ladies and gentlemen, 20,000. ha new land for non-agricultural purposes is the poverty of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a quick question. We all know that the CPK's investment is also a very significant development and construction of new linear and railway infrastructure, which is an integral part of this project. Yesterday, when discussing the draft law on amending the Act on Commercialisation of Polish Railways, one of the Members of the opposition asked a rather original question, which was a question addressed to the Minister: When did the Government of Law and Justice of the State privatized by the Civic Platform of PKP Energetics? It can be added that this also applies to such entities as Railway Telecommunications in the future. [[When will he keep his word?]] But the question is: What is the idea of the government side (the bell) as to the implementation of the energy component in the implementation of linear infrastructure, what is the construction of new railway lines? Just who's gonna do it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u144	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister Horala! You promise a bright future, and I have the impression that the only one who's walking with this project today is you. Thousands of people, wherever you appear with these soulless lines on the map, protest because they are about to be displaced, demolished and expropriated. And that's all you're proposing to the Poles. There are protests in the Silesian voivodship wherever you appear: protests of residents, protests of local governments. Animals and forests don't protest because they can't. People, Minister, today they want to get to work, to school from town A to town B. You're talking about communication availability, but you don't build enough stations. Most of the time, where you show up, it'll be acoustic screens and trains running at 200 km/h. People today have no need to go from Ostrava to Warsaw to the airport once a year, to go on holiday (the bell), but they really do have a need to go to work. Hence my question. All those railroads that are neglected today, unrefurbished, what you're saying is that we are We neglected - okay. What about those lines? Why don't you build railroads on those routes that are not controversial, which do not raise any concerns of the inhabitants, but cut everything in half like this wall between Poland and Belarus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wonder what the opposition will do to the CPK in a year's time to take over. I'm thinking about it. Will you eliminate everything that's in the plan now? [[But there's nothing. The field is here.]] Maybe there isn't. Maybe there is. But you're gonna build it all over again. I mean, we've been talking about an airport for decades. Leszek Miller, when he took over, said he was going to build a new airport. There was no money, because there was a situation that we had not yet been to the European Union. It is now. Well, do we want to build this modern state or don't we want to? It always costs money. In Wroclaw we make a 20-year bypass. There are people on the roadway plans, protesting today, as if they didn't know there was a ring road going there. The truth lies somewhere in the middle. The question is: Should we politicize Poland's development completely? [[Close the airport in Wroclaw.]] Do we have any projects that will be carried out by those who rule? Let's ask ourselves if we want Poland to be a modern country (Dzwonek), where you don't go from Wrocław to Warsaw 4.5 hours, because that's what Intercity is driving now, but you only drive 1.5 hours, just like in Japan. [[Applause]] [[We do.]] It's an example. [[You should have done KDP. They've got the project ready.]] You should have done it. Good. You've ruled for seven years... [[And we've prepared a project.]] ...and you've prepared projects. In turn you came and changed these projects and again we are all waiting to go 2 hours from Wroclaw to Warsaw, not 4.5 hours. That's what I'm talking about. I don't want to criticize anyone or praise anyone. However, if we submit it to ourselves in Poland that we want to be a modern country, we simply have to do it, at the least possible cost of people, because it is true what you say, but we have to do it. [[Yeah, as little as possible at the expense of people.]] Let's talk about this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Who doesn't?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Spring, sunshine, and there's so much venom. God!]] [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u147	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Already mentioned here from this speaker during the debate that took place last Monday in the Senate, Vice-Marshal Michał Kaminski said that in the face of the crisis and threats in the East, it is not worth building an airport that we will not be able to defend. I'll quote your marshal here: the Russians will be able to send him into space within five minutes, which I understand is to destroy him. Minister! How would you respond to such, you have to say, a dwarf thesis? In the face of potential Russian aggression, should we stop all investments and wait with our hands on a possible aggressor? This, of course, Minister, is a rhetorical question, but it also gives rise to a substantive question: Is such a priceless (Bell) infrastructure so-called. A dual purpose, civil-military, can be effectively protected? Minister! One more answer, because as a citizen of Podkarpacie and on behalf of the people of Podkarpacie, I would like to say that we all remember whether we all know that Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport is today the hub of NATO-Ws army, the hub of the U.S. military. Can we still live, live, work, send children to school today in Rzeszow, or do we have to think, looking at the thesis put by the fourth person in the country, about the evacuation of this beautiful Podkarpacie and the beautiful Rzeszów? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are protests all over Poland... [[I can't hear you.]] ...in fact, I haven't heard a single word of acceptance, except, of course, those employed in the CPK company and living well out of it. But it's not surprising. We need to figure out the scale. The Polish state has never planned such mass, forced and yet looting displacements of its compatriots as you do. [[Applause]] What a scale that is! Taking into account the so-called. Speakers, that's 20,000. ha. You don't want to admit how many houses there are, how many lives there are. Damages? The Constitution says they can only be for public purposes and for fair compensation. First of all, these aren't public targets. You guys are crazy about this project. This is not a public purpose. And the compensation you're offering (the bell) is not right, first of all, because the right compensation... Let me give you an example. According to the World Bank, as it was done in our day, 5 ha farm with buildings is 2.5 million PLN, according to the proposed so-called. The market valuation of 1 million, but according to the revised Horala Minister's valuation in the new project will be PLN 0.5 million. Five times less, that's how you steal from Poles. And that's what you're bragging about. After all, you write in your justification of the project that you will earn on this amendment of the Law on expropriation of 1,900 thousand. 1 ha. There's 20,000. ha. Suppose it's not all agricultural land, forests and wasteland. You will earn at least PLN 30 billion for the Treasury. That's what you are, Minister, boasting about your justification. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] For this amount, you plan to rob Poles and drive them out of their homes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We can see that this discussion about the CPK is very emotional. I would like to ask a few very concrete questions, in principle, and I hope that the Minister will answer all Members, because these are interesting things to us. First of all, how many earth's acres were actually acquired from a voluntary program? We want to hear a specific number. How are the progress made in purchasing land to be invested by specific months? Could the Minister give us statistics on the purchase of land for investment? How much land, at what price, at what time, even how long does this process last on average? And last two questions. Given the problems with the availability of construction materials and their increasing cost, I ask whether the investment schedules are at risk. That, I think, interests us, too. And last question: Is (The bell) planned to recapitalisation the company, also taking into account the increasing costs and if so, to what extent and when? I think we want to hear the answer to that question, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u153	Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. [[I didn't expect that to happen so soon. We saved time.]] But you can see that you are still running super, super, absolutely. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u154	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, what are you gonna say to Mrs. Krystyna, an 80-year-old villager in the Baran community, who asks her chief, "When are they gonna get us out and what's gonna happen to us?" For many generations, her family lived here and ran a farm, and in the fall of her life, the state funds her moving into the unknown. Or the town of Yaktor, the marriage of Anna and Tomasz, last year they put into use their dream house built for several years. In the spring of this year, they learn that their home will be crossed by a high-speed railroad. In Jaktorów alone, the inhabitants estimate by so-called. consultation that there will be approx. 200 houses. What about the people whose houses will have a fast railroad behind the fence? And the last. Mr Jacek from the village of Obory near Warsaw was looking for a place to live, for a very long time - he wanted to escape from Warsaw. He ran away, looked for a place far away from the various investments. What does it turn out to be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After a dozen years his house will be crossed by the A50 motorway, not by an old trail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowick. There isn't. Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. There you go. You are preparing Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u156	The Central Communication Port is currently the largest government infrastructure investment in Poland - listen to the Members of the opposition - which is the proverbial salt in the eye for people wishing badly for Poland, also for competition from the aviation industry. This is not only a megalot, as some believe, but also thousands of kilometres of integrated rail and road routes. In total, 30 investment tasks and 2 thousand. km of new railway lines, which are intended to allow access from the largest Polish cities to Warsaw within not more than 2.5 hours. Each of the 10 so-called. railway spokes leading to the Central Communication Port will consist of new sections of the network, refurbished or upgraded fragments of already existing infrastructure. Such large projects require the use of innovative technical and technological solutions in the field of computer support for logistics, transport and passenger traffic management. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We all hope that Polish companies will join in the design and construction and use Polish technical thought. Minister, is the company planning to create and develop professional investment facilities, e.g. by working with the best scientific and research centres in Poland? Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Andrzej Grzyb and Mr Mark Dyduch, who speak according to national interest. State of opposition, learn from them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You're some kind of pattern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u157	There's no Mark Dyduch because he'd probably react to it somehow. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u158	You guys are ashamed of Mr Warecha. He wasn't at the Jason protests. He didn't talk to local government. [[Applause]] [[I agree, sir.]] You only read the books Mr. Horala gives you. You want to build a CPK for a lot of money, but that's not all. Where is the well-being of ordinary residents? An example from my Podkarpacie, the famous Jasionka. Perhaps at this point, the most important airport in the world. This is where Joe Biden landed, where American soldiers stationed. You can see that this airport is performing its role. My corrections were useful. What do the inhabitants of Jasionka say about the construction of the CPK and the railroad leading to it? The planned construction of the railway line Łętownia - Rzeszów as part of the creation of the CPK spends sleep with the eyes of people and entrepreneurs. Each of the four variants presented by the investor assumes the destruction of dozens of houses. So far, the public consultation doesn't bring anything. The designer wasn't in the field. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Municipal authorities and residents say: We want to develop, to function as any society, but we beg the authorities in Warsaw not to devastate Jasionka through this investment, not to build railroads through urbanized areas. I mean, there's a different way to design this investment. I dedicate this to Mr Waresza - she says: No one matters to us. Despair, we're just extremely exhausted nervously. We don't sleep, we don't eat, we don't want to live, we don't want to function. First of all, they protest young couples who had their future tied to Jasionka, and suddenly they found that their homes were being demolished. And the biggest scandal that the designer - I'm not going to talk about consulting because they were online and people didn't want it, the state didn't listen - wasn't in the field, and you just don't know what you're talking about. People need to be respected, people need to be listened to, and not just pay high salaries in CPK management... CKP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a few questions about air cargo because today this traffic takes place at 80% at Chopin airport in Warsaw, and we know that there are quite large restrictions here, for example due to noise. This cargo movement is of great importance in the development of each country. I would like to ask how this investment will contribute to Poland's development and how it is done today. Is it a fact that today most cargo air traffic is actually taking over German airports, and therefore the goods are moving through Poland tirami (The Bell) which travels the roads? Of course, this is incompatible with the so-called. Green EU policy. What kind of pro-development opportunity does the CPK offer in relation to cargo traffic? And one more thing. Madame, I am addressing you here. Really, this is the last sentence that says that Polish citizens should protest the construction of high-speed railways, that is... [[No, that's not what happened. It didn't fall.]] In that sense, ma'am. We've been listening to this. [[People protest because you don't listen to them.]] Ma'am, this is really shocking, because you're about to come out here and ask for the railroad, fast rail. [[But it's been two minutes since you've been telling me something that doesn't make any sense.]] Dear lady, really the development of Poland is among others. building a CPK, not what you're saying and doing so far. [[But not at the expense of the residents, it can be done differently.]] You were interrupted by the Vistula mine excavation, and now you're disturbed by the CPK. Poland, expansion and development of Poland are bothering you at all, my dear lady, yes. [[How can you?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'm not against building high-speed rail, and I don't think any of us are against it. But smartly designed, in consultation with the inhabitants, not against them. [[Voice from the room: What's that?]] [[Voice from the room: 160,000. consultation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the district of Kamienna Góra, and especially the municipality of Kamienna Góra, is an example of the actions of the government company, which harm the inhabitants, harm them, without giving them anything in return. 'Cause there's no train that's gonna stop. The fast-speed railway proposal completely destroys the towns, cuts them to pieces, storms houses and entire infrastructure. In particular, towns such as Prevoy and Chad will cease to exist as settlement systems, ladies and gentlemen. What about people? With their generational income? Are they doomed to scraps on the way of expropriations and very (Bingle) hurting compensation? Next thing you know, what about the water? The railroad is supposed to run through the so-called. Niecka Krzeszowska, which is a water hole for half of the commune, very good quality water. No one's done any research so far on how the investment will affect the water, whether it'll still be there at all. And one last thing. The issue of areas of natural value, which are already rare in Poland. The Natura 2000 area will be demoted. I ask, Minister: Where are these specialists, these outstanding engineers, where are those environmental experts? Nobody saw them there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u163	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For more than 20 years there has been a discussion about the construction of an airport. Now we come to such a point that the Government of Law and Justice wants to make this investment as the Central Communication Port. And today we see in the discussion what two Polands we have. Poland in the days of Tusk and Kopaczowa, which sold national assets. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Kopacz, Prime Minister Kopacz.]] Back in your day, you were rolling train and bus transport systems. [[What about Lotus?]] In your day, you tried to keep the banks from being Polish. To make as many foreign capital as possible in Polish companies, so that the Polish economy does not actually exist. When the Government of Law and Justice makes major investments, including the construction of the Central Communication Port, you shout to return to those moments, to your time when Poland was being liquidated. [[What did your assistant do to you?]] Minister! I have a question for you because there are consultations, and the investment is already being implemented. Minister, what are the procedural and formal stages ahead of us in the course of our investment? And hopefully it'll arise as soon as possible. [[Applause]] [[And your assistant, what does he do there? He pretends he can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u165	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You've been in charge for seven years. Your best example is today's Lotus you're selling under such difficult conditions. You're talking about Mrs. Eve Kopacz, Mr. Donald Tusk. Get rid of those complexes you have. [[Applause]] And today, the Central Communication Port and the associated rapid railroad will be associated primarily with an investment against people, based on human harm and showing the arrogance of power. In all the villages where I was, and I was in several and talked to residents - in the town of Bełżec, in the village of Mokre in the municipality of Zamość, in the village of Małochwiej in the municipality of Krasnystaw - this is associated with one thing: demolitions and destruction of the achievements of many generations of people. Perhaps this is an investment that we need today only to PiS. [[Poland is needed.]] Because the Platform together with PSL made a lot of investments. There's never been a protest like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know you're in pain. You have to hit your chest and apologize. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u167	Thank you. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you very kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You asked for substantive discussions, so if you don't mind, I'll ask you substantive questions. First: What is CPK Osiedle? And could you tell me why it was created? Because somehow no one can explain it and no reasonable information can be found except that it is a development company. That's the first question. Second question. If you say that you have gained funds and you are developing this project so well, then why in Mileszki and Wiączyn, in the area of the Łódź-Warsaw railway line, can't you make a midway tunnel that would just save this project for that area? Because unless there is a midway tunnel, sir, the inhabitants of these towns (the bell) will go out to Pomeranian Street every week and you will never get to Łódź by car. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A state of opposition in many of its speeches, or almost every speech, refers to countries, countries of the European Union, the fact that they should be modelled on them. What has happened in your ranks, that now, when Poland wants to develop through the construction of the Central Communication Port, as the Minister said, to the countries of the first league, you resist, you say that this is unnecessary, you refer to various arguments, but not to those that lead to the development of the Polish state. [[We don't say that.]] A tangible example is e.g. organizing a press conference by the head of the Polish People's Party and Mr Ireneusz Bres in Cracow, who claimed that regional ports through the construction of the central port will be minimized and eliminated. [[No, because of Mr. Horala. The fees are up, do you know that?]] It's a lie. It's a lie. According to forecasts - we do not discuss, among others. with the International Air Carrier Association - IATA, which says so - the opening of the Central Communication Port should not and will not have a negative impact on regional ports. So how do I explain to the disbelievers that the construction of this port is a chance to develop for Poland rather than destroy the economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Wałęsa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u172	The heart of this whole system is to be the CPK, and it's to lose all the other ports. After all, in this government strategy, it is written how many passengers each airport has to return, so that the Central Communication Port has a facilitated start. Unfortunately, there is a lack of a certain logic based on European legislation and market development forecasts, which is why the regional port manager has been concerned about several provisions of this government strategy, e.g.: Ordering the issue of ownership rights to Chopin airport and participation in regional airports and the CPK program will allow the Polish state to take effective action related to the need to shape the desired network of airports in Poland. After all, there is clearly a risk that the government will want to influence these management boards against the EU guidelines, and de facto (the bell) will try to manage centrally. However, it seems to me that passengers of airports such as Tricity, Katowice, Wrocław or Krakow will decide this. There is also a question about the fate of tens of thousands of employees, suppliers or counterparties from central airports - what will happen to them, these jobs? We're talking about tens of thousands of jobs here. What's gonna happen to these people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Mrs Halina, Mr Wojciech and thousands of inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, including my region, are very pleased with the construction of the Central Communication Port and with the possibility of new, fast rail connections. [[Ha, ha, ha! PRL.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is amazing that such a serious, strategic investment for Poland is being denied and criticised by Members of the opposition. But everything becomes clear when we recall the words of an important Platform policy: Why do we need a new airport when we have a new airport in Berlin and it is difficult to compete with it? We've got Okęcie, Modlin, and that's enough. [[That's a lie. This is a quote from Kaczyński.]] These words fell on 30 May 2018. Minister! The work on the implementation of the Central Communication Port is planned. Today, technical and environmental studies are being developed for 10 episodes in different locations in Poland (Dzwonek), including for the section covering my city of Włocławek, that is CPK Płock - Włocławek. I have a question about the course of consultations and talks with residents, with local governments, and a question about what will be the next steps in implementing the project that we are all waiting for. And for which we keep our fingers crossed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, do you guarantee - I would like to hear this from this pulpit, but also have a written reply - that the residents and residents to whom the parcels will be taken, the houses taken away, often demolished, which are the work of generations, will have paid compensation which will allow them to purchase a plot of the same parameters in terms of size as regards the attractiveness of the plot, and to restore exactly the property that will be taken away from them? Please respond in writing and here, from the pulpit. Tell me how people who have real estate on loan will be secured. They paid off some money, for example. A few hundred thousand. In the first place, the money will go to pay the rest of the loan to the bank. How do you secure these people? As far as Katowice is concerned, I would like to know how passenger flows were estimated on different lines. How did you do that? Especially please include number 170 Katowice - Ostrava. Do you consider the cost of mining damage in Silesia? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what, for example? with farmers who are expropriated with the living? E.g. Silesia, Mikolowo-Wet, you have 120 cows and asks what to do with these cows, if you will secure him that he will graze them elsewhere. You're gonna take his land, and what's he gonna do? Any new idea of a life for your farmer? One last question. How do you estimate the costs and time of the investment, if there are no people in the labour market, there are shortages in the raw materials market and there is an increase in costs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is it? Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Member, we invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u178	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Central Communication Port is a strategic investment for Poland, for our security and many countries around us. The history of recent years shows that the most important investments from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish economy and the entire social system, such as the gasport, the excavation of Vistula Mieria or just the Central Communication Port, were and are intricately criticized by the opposition, that I will mention what my colleague has already mentioned here, about the airport in Berlin or, recently, whether it is worth building, since the Russians can send in 5 minutes into space, or finally about the excavation of Vistula Mieria - if nature wanted it to be there, it would be. Therefore, Minister, please say again: What impact will CPK investments have on Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister Horala, I wanted to address these words to you, because you are presenting us with the CPK project and all these investments, especially the railroad investments, which you say will be up by 2040. It's 2022 and I wanted to ask you about 2022, 2023. I'm from Szczecin. I wanted to ask you: Why isn't Szczecin in the CPK project? Why are there rail links to this airport and Szczecin is out? Do you really want to give Szczecin to the Germans? You act like Szczecin isn't Polish at all. What about people? [[Applause]] You may be doing something interesting in 2040, but I'm sure you won't be the minister then. I want you to know what happens after seven years of your rule. The train takes 8.5 hours to Warsaw from Szczecin. There's a four-and-a-half hour drive to Poznan. You go to Gdansk for 5 hours. You go to Wroclaw for five hours. When I was a student, I used to drive faster. You go to Koszalin for two and a half hours. Minister! You in this project CPK writes that the train to Szczecin will not be the same as other cities, but we will fly. I just want to let you know that before you became Minister, five planes flew to Szczecin a day from Warsaw, and now two flew. And there was Ryanair. You say cheap airports, cheap lines. It's a lack of humility towards people who don't have money for tickets. Sir, the LOT ticket you're managing for a flight from Szczecin to Warsaw costs 1,200 PLN. Ryanair flew for 100. And what did you do? You chased Ryanair out of the airport because he's cheating Poles. The people of Szczecin have no way to get to Warsaw because you drive 9 hours, and there is no way to get there, because 1,200 PLN costs a ticket, and you tell us that in 2040 we will have better connections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing. I will explain to you - this is to the Members of the PiS, because you may not know this - what is going on with regional airports. Madame, you have mentioned this. Minister Horała dramatically raised airport charges for airlines from 1 January at regional airports - drastically. You know why? In order to prove in this document that the Central Communication Port is tightening, because once the charges rise drastically, it will not compete with regional airports, then the CPK will be cost-effective. The effect will be that Mr. Horala will slaughter regional airports, we will walk, and the CPK will not rise. Plans until 2040 are very important, but we must not forget that people live today, tomorrow and, as my colleague said, they must reach work, children, to study, not live some fantasy. Your plan is broken... [[That's what you had to do before. You had time.]] The charge against your plan is not that it is the expansion of Poland, that it is like in the City of Bear, that on big straw investments the best rollers are made. The problem with your plan is that he's separated from the needs of ordinary people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Everyone thinks so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Peter King, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I don't have an aspiration to be the minister's attorney, Mr. Minister. It's very good advice, but to be so hypocritical... I thought there were boundaries. [[Talk about yourself.]] I haven't mentioned you yet, and you already know it's about you. [[Applause]] [[Because you're only talking about me.]] But subconscious... subconscious doesn't fool you. I'd like to remind you of a fact that the representatives of the Civic Platform are reluctant to talk about,? Speaking of which, the issue of rail connections is so often discussed here. We have one entity in the PKP Group, which provides access to energy and access to raw materials and fuels. This is a company called PKP Energy. It was so strange that, at the end of the Civil Platform rule, the Civic Platform decided to sell this company. If this increases the energy security of the state and energy security of this group, then we really live on different planets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Adam Sněžek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Central Communication Port is an investment that warms up the Polish economy. The market economy investor test and the business plan show 10% profit from the airport part. The railway part will bring obvious benefits to the whole country, as well as to the various regions. In my constituency in Podkarpacie, a new railway line no. 122 Rzeszów - Brzozów - Sanok is planned within this railway network. It will allow you to reduce travel time from Warsaw to Sanok to about 3 hours, which will greatly facilitate and increase tourist traffic in Bieszczady. This line is very expected by the inhabitants of our region. All CPK investments will create 290 thousand. new jobs and will increase the value of total production in Poland by up to PLN 90 billion per year. Minister, what other economic benefits can we point to when we talk about the CPK? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Russia's aggression against Ukraine shows in a clear way that investment is needed to improve the quality of the rapid response infrastructure on the eastern front of NATO - says Ben Hodges, former US military commander in Europe. Minister, I'm sure you're in constant contact with the MON or NATO structures. How will CPK investments affect the security of Poland and neighbouring countries? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You're talking about the so-called. consultation. I wanted to ask the Minister how many consultations you were with residents regarding the course of the proposed line 170. It's a line on the route from Katowice to the state border, to Ostrava. I attended meetings in Godów, Massanie, Żorach, Rybnik, Peanut, Laziska Górnych and Mikołów. They weren't consults, they were disinformation meetings. No one could answer the questions there. [[Applause]] [[Were you?]] Yes, I was. Enough of that, local government officials were saying no. They presented their project. They made their proposal to run the line. They sent the project to the Ministry, sent it to the company that won the tender. Minister, has anyone ever leaned over the Mikolev project? Have you personally spoken to local government officials from Mikołowski County? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On 12 May, they sent you an objection again. They propose that two further proposals should be taken into account when preparing the technical and environmental study plan. I am asking you today if you will lean on this proposal, to appeal to the local government of Mikołowski County. Who signed it? It was signed by the mayor of Orzesz, the mayor of Mikokov, the mayor of Łaziska and the mayor of the municipality of Wyra. It was also signed by the Mayor of the Municipality and the City of Czerwionka-Leszczyna, a representative of the President of Tychy and a representative of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union. 15 local governments made comments. How many remarks have you leaned over the Minister? How many comments have been taken into account in your proposed project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u187	Thank you. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why do we need an airport when we're building a new airport in Berlin? Minister, why do we need new jobs? After all, asparagus fields are waiting for Poles in Germany. Minister, why do we need new infrastructure? After all, Poles can do the same in France, Germany, the Netherlands. That's where infrastructure needs to be built. These are, of course, rhetorical questions. This is a reference to the subjective mentality of political elites that ruled Poland for 25 years. This changed in 2015. Now let us bet on ambition and development of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] We would like to thank you very much for this. Minister! The Central Communication Port is, of course, a window to the world, but it is also about tightening the entire railway transport in Poland. I would like to ask about Speech No. 9 linking Wrocław to Warsaw (Dzwonek) and about the passage of this speech through my territory, my region, my constituency, i.e. through the districts of Wieruszowski and Sieradzki. Will the fast train from Wrocław to Warsaw stop in Sieradz? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u190	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We are receiving very disturbing signals from people who live in areas where the Central Communication Port and its so-called "Central Communication Port" would be established. Speech. It goes on, among other things. about the inhabitants of Polomia and Czerwionka-Leszczyn in the Śląskie voivodship, who say that the staff of the Ministry as salesmen convinced them that the valuation of their property would be higher than their market value. However, the legal provisions in force clearly state that the basis for determining the amount of compensation is market value. Minister! Why do you illegally promise people pears on the willow? You lie in people's eyes to get them to stop protesting. Minister, why do you treat them like idiots? You don't think anybody's gonna know? Maybe it's just that there won't be any expropriations or the Central Communication Port, just empty PR for the holy never. Pulling this fiction is a waste of time and money and abuse of patience of millions of Poles and Poles. How much is the most expensive meadow in Poland? When you deal with real problems, e.g. Fighting transport exclusion? [[Voice from the room: You should have listened.]] When do you want to run the PKS + ¿ and ¿Rail + ¿? It's about starting to work, and it's not just a theory of how to live. Come to your senses until you've put all your money in the mud. Start respecting people. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You were the one running around the meadow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u191	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Large and strategic investments will soon be completed from the point of view of Polish interests. It is about the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, the Vistula mine excavation or the construction of a barrier at the border with Belarus. What do these investments have in common? One thing at a time. All this was criticized by the opposition. You mocked and criticized (Applause), and today reality shows that these are important, necessary and strategic investments. You also mocked the Territorial Defense Army and criticized them, criticized temporary hospitals, the National Defense Act... [[No, you're not. Don't lie to me.]] ...and now it is time to criticize another important and strategic investment for our country, the Central Communication Port. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I have questions. At what stage is the implementation of the Central Communication Port project currently underway? When is the initial investment planned? What financial support has the EU received so far with regard to this investment? Can we count on further financial support from the European Union, and is this investment from Europe's point of view also an important element? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Wicher, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Behind you are hard years of work in the case of the Central Communication Port, also working during the pandemic period, working at a time when we are at war at our borders, when we actually have rampant inflation as a result of all the negative phenomena that have occurred. Today, the prices of construction materials are rising. On this side, on the side of our opposition you can hear: no, for it is too expensive; no, for it is not today; no, for it is necessary to destroy something; no, for it is not this course; no, it is not. When will there be a stop in case of this: no? When will you understand that building a state is a long-term perspective that foundations are being built for years forward? [[Applause]] [[Come back to Ziębra.]] Mrs. Member! You really need to think a little bit further. than a term of office and the next election to be a messenger again. We think about the Polish country, we think about its foundations, we think about making this country strong today, tomorrow and in 40, 50 years. That's the kind of communication port we need. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you go to Małopolska and tell Nowa Sącz, in Krakow, that there will be no route Podłęż - Piebello, that there will be no spokes. Go, be so brave. We'll see how the locals react. [[It's not a spokesperson.]] Minister! The question to you is very simple: How do we convince those who are unconvinced, those who say only: no? Why don't we find something together? Because I don't know what language to speak anymore. Maybe in some foreign language, maybe German? Maybe they'll understand better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u195	I don't think we can convince anyone that way. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u196	Ladies and gentlemen! We have a series of inconsistencies here. I want to say one thing: if there was such opposition as today before the war, the port in Gdynia would not have been built, because it would have been necessary to reserve the beach in Gdynia for the Germans. [[Applause]] I would like to point out to you that all political formations were involved in the implementation of the Central Communication Port and high-speed railways. The history is not only about the 50 years that the Minister spoke about, but also about research at the Government Centre for Strategic Studies and the subsequent efforts of local governments to create such an investment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] I want to tell you that this is a work of self-government. Local government flyers that asked for it to be. The local government agreement of 31 July 2003 from the Łódź Voivodeship, where representatives of all political formations were signed: the left, the Civic Platform, and also the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another agreement of 16 April 2008. Marshals of all formations, from the PSL, from the left, of course from the PiS, also signed for such a project. Finally, ministers: Pol... [[Voice from the hall: Grabarczyk.]] ... Grabarczyk, as well as Gęsicka, who commissioned studies in this area. And they were happily taken, but there was a breakthrough and there was an inability. The breakthrough occurred when Jarosław Kaczyński in Łódź declared in 2014 that he would undertake this investment. And that's what made it happen. You have a part in this to some extent. The fact that there are controversies that it is impossible to determine and make everyone happy is obvious. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But an example of openness to these consultations and to this community is, for example, Constantine. I am opposed to giving up Constantine, but still agreed and resigned from Constantine, followed by Retkinia. But these similar elements and the lack of knowledge in this area in my opinion are unfortunately caused by your opposition to politics, because you only want to deny, even though you were involved. Minister Grabarczyk! The KDP run through the eastern part, including Mileszka, was with you. [[That's not true!]] Of course I do. [[That's not true! Lie!]] The first studies were in this field. Similarly, the first studies were in the field of the whole eastern area. Of course, this can be modified, taking into account the positions of residents, but e.g. The inhabitants do not know that part of this course will be in the tunnel, and therefore no collision will occur after the implementation of this investment. On the other hand, there will be difficult places, because it is impossible to make such a big strategic investment without difficulties. This area would have to be reserved from the time of Living I, so that it could be realized. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is our common interest, the common interest of the Polish state, all formations for this to arise, and arrangements must be conducted, opening up to all possibilities and needs, including social. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u197	Thank you very much. Minister Grabarczyk in correction mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u198	Thank you, Marshal. [[I'm sure Mr Tomaszewski remembers and is right.]] Corrigendum from the letter of the inhabitants of Mileszek, who point out that according to the 2010 project, such a designed line will allow for preservation in the intact state of Mileszko and Dolny Elm settlements. Savings on displacements, as well as on the construction of further tracks of adjacent infrastructure. And that's the truth about the project I was overseeing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the fact is that the infrastructure should be implemented in the relay, but the relay is that it cares about the baton, not the new one. Mr Horała, on the other hand, has undertaken this task. He's doing human harm again. [[Applause]] Especially newly built housing estates. We therefore believe that this project should not be implemented in this form. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[What's that noise? Take it easy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have this condition: 20 minutes of downtime, but each of you, as we agreed, has spoken. We still have a few votes left. I'm not gonna extend it anymore, I'm gonna interrupt after using the time limit. Please, Mrs Iwona Sledzińska... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: First master.]] Please, Mr Maciej Chase, no problem. Mr President, five minutes max, and as it might be less, that would be great. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u200	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! You're asking why we care about expropriations. Because investments made by the government should not be carried out at the expense of people, at the expense of their assets or at the expense of their deterioration in life's situation. [[Applause]] The construction of the CPK will disrupt the lives of tens of thousands of people. Expropriations, even if they are inevitable, should never end in a thinning of the property of the expropriated person. [[Applause]] Compensation for expropriations should be fair and fair. This is provided for in Article. 21 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case today. What is worse, as a result of the changes currently under review, at the initiative of the representative of the Government for the Development of Europe. The CPK, the process of reducing the assets of expropriated persons is to be improved. It is unacceptable that the CPK project estimated by its builders for hundreds of billions of zlotys will also help save by this new expropriation mode. Are the residents against public-purpose investments? We have heard many times during meetings that during the construction of highways, expropriated residents received fair compensation. Now they're not so sure. In expropriation according to the new rules mentioned by the Minister, they will usually lose, few will gain. I'll give you a simple example. We remember the situation of people exterminated in Kiedrzyn near Radom. Two families resisted 11 families. In both cases, they were asked to replace the premises under their rights. The governor was unable to identify them, instead the families were being harassed by social services. So how are we supposed to believe that no one from Baranów, Teresina or Visquitek will be left without a roof over their head? What does the voluntary acquisition program look like? There you go. By the end of March 12,42 ha of 3,000 were acquired, which is less than 1% - Four. That is the trust of the inhabitants of the Baranów community in the company. You often boast that you can listen to people, but even the communists had greater social sensitivity than you, building substitute villages for large investments. Listening to the people's voices, I get the feeling that your sensitivity is actually the sensitivity of a bankster who doesn't care how many people he's gonna hurt. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u201	Thank you. Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is such a problem that not all of us can read with understanding, but it turns out that listening with understanding is actually harder. I say this to the Minister and to your Members of Law and Justice. We have made it very clear that neither the protesting inhabitants are, nor are we against this investment as such. We are not against the development of the country. We're not against the equation for the best. We are against the development built on human harm. This information was about human harm. [[Voice from the room: Populism.]] That's populism? I'd really like to see if your house was taken or if you protested then she'd be a populist. I understand you're not attending these meetings. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, we are.]] Ma'am, 460 very good material was sent from Yaktorov. Several people from the Civic Coalition responded to these 460 materials. I asked. No one from your club answered the Yaktorowa residents. No one went to Yaktorov, no one came to Mileszek, no one came to Brzezin. So don't tell me everyone's so happy. That's what we want to talk about here today, because perhaps the Minister doesn't have time to show up anywhere, where he builds port and spokes. If there is no time, then we are Members of these people and that is why we are talking about this here today. [[Applause]] That's the idea of this information. I am very happy because here, too, we have learned what is happening in different voivodships, because this rebellion, ladies and gentlemen, is growing in several voivodships. Is that what you want? So that people would think that we couldn't afford big investments, that we couldn't afford growth, that people would start rebelling just because you couldn't prepare and make such an investment? I said, it's your crazyness, your greed, and your crookedness that led to the fact that this investment is so bad in social perception. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State of Minister Martin Horala. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that now the dominant propaganda element in the narrative of the opposition is so-called. The alleged human harm. [[What about your propaganda?]] I'm glad you guys stopped talking about airport security. Even you must admit that this investment project is moving forward quickly. Now there's human harm. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the thesis given to the Polish media circulation, of course, by the portal Sputnik. For example, in the article of 11 March 2021 there are manoeuvres at an existing airport. It's Sputnik who gives it, and you resonate like those MRI boxes, and that's how it works. [[Respectfully. Are you a box, too?]] This is the basic thread of your speech. With great respect, honourable Members of the opposition use the same propaganda procedures as Russian propaganda, and in the theory of propaganda it is called orchestra and resonance boxes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! More speeches. Members, I will try to refer to them as long as they allow, and we will, of course, present the rest in writing. Mrs Milczanowska rightly pointed to the aspect of the air cargo market. That's what we need to figure out. Currently, most of the air freight trade from Poland is carried out via airports outside Poland. These goods leave Poland and enter by land transport. We do not use this segment of the market, we give it to foreign airports for free, because we do not have the capacity, we do not have the capacity to operate this market. Right now, at this point, our possibilities have been exhausted. Anyone who wants to block, delay the construction of CPK, among others. works for foreign, western airports, which profit from the service of the Polish market. The Polish market is also an area of penetration and margin building outside Poland. [[Applause]] [[And it's growing fast.]] It's growing very fast. As the IATA forecast shows, merely providing the possible capacity for handling this market will allow for a pessimistic option - immediately doubling the turnover, and in a realistic option - to increase their five times in Poland, with all associated profits. Mrs Janyska. Madame, it is not that you have not received an answer, but you have not taken note of it. [[I didn't get an answer.]] And that's why maybe it's a misunderstanding, because you got an answer to the interpellation, and then she made another even-sounding one. [[You're lying. I asked how many employees.]] On the other hand, regarding employment, I am trying to reach you with the knowledge of how many similar Polish and foreign institutions employing similar size investment programmes. [[I was asking about the CPK, you're lying.]] Because you're pulling the number of employees out of context, e.g. in the CPK, you claim that this is supposed to be a tragic amount, while you have no knowledge of what employment looks like in similar institutions. In the CPK, I answer, it's significantly smaller, and I just don't follow it every day. [[What does it mean to be significantly smaller?]] Because we're doing the investment program, not the professional answer to your questions. There's only been over 10 questions this year. So why don't you at least start reading the answers to your own interpellation. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rafał Adamczyk asked when there would be known routes in Zagłęg Dąbrowski. For this section we plan to complete the work on technical and environmental studies in the third quarter of 2024. [[The court will call for your answer.]] Mr Ireneusz Raś claims that I am opposed to regional airports. Absolutely not, I wish the development of regional airports very well, but not in such a model that the airport brings losses, regularly, year by year, we also have such airports in Poland, that regularly, year by year, the Polish taxpayer's government and state authorities pay for it and year by year the foreign company draws profits from this airport. And it is such a pumping room of money from the Polish taxpayer's pocket to the foreign owner's money of this or other airline. We support the development of regional airports, we have many good, well-functioning regional airports in Poland. We also have ones that, from time to time, without the CPK, have suffered a year-to-year loss, which is covered by the taxpayer's money, and foreign airlines operating on them do not suffer those losses. So this model, of course, will not be promoted by us. Mr Suchoń says that there was 100 million at first, now 60 million, and there will be as much as Okęciu. You shot, you shot, you missed. Now Okęciu has a capacity of about 20-22 million passengers, and the first stage of the CPK is going to be 40 million passengers maximum capacity and of course so designed from the beginning, scaled that when the airport starts to fill in, it is easy to run the next stages of the investment process, but not so, so to speak, in the dark, only when such an economic, market need arises. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk says that there is no need to resuscitate the corpse, which is LOT. The same corpse was, for example. Lufthansa, because at COVID, we had stopped flights. Lufthansa, of course, received public aid several times larger than the Polish Airlines LOT. And of course, as far as Lufthansa is concerned, Germany can help and develop it, while for opposition Members Polish Airlines LOT is supposed to be dead, it is simply to die. And, of course, without the CPK, it won't develop. Without the CPK it will not develop, because it will not have a home hub on which it will be able to offer a large network of connections, and this creates profitability in the aviation business. And that's what you're trying to do, obviously, so there's no profitability on the part of LOT. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked when the line by Kalisz from Poznań to Warsaw will be completed. This is a line within the TEN-T network so we have to implement it by 2030. Our plans will be implemented by 2029. Mrs Ferrowska mentioned a conference in the Senate with experts. Unfortunately, no CPK was invited there, so they were all experts who had no idea about CPK. I understand that the point was that we should know the arguments didn't interfere with the sharpness of the courts. [[Applause]] On the other hand, on the other hand, I think it was consciously, using the fact that she was speaking from the Parliamentary Speaker, so from material immunity, she impudently lied, violated my personal goods, talking about some more millions that are going to my salary. I don't make millions, not even a million, not even half a million in three years, not a quarter of a million, maybe. No, Mrs Ferrowska, who is not here. [[More than a quarter million.]] And she deliberately lied from here, knowing that, as she does it from the speaker, it is in the performance of the mandate of the Member, so I cannot sue her, simply for it, because if she did it from any other place, I would just sue her. You all know exactly how much the Polish Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, and what my earnings and my declarations of property are made public and available online. Such rhetorical figures: When will people find out what their land is worth? Each time an asset valuer comes in and, in accordance with the rules of this profession, makes an estimate of the operation and evaluates it. From the area of the airport, if anyone wants to know, we invite you to apply for a voluntary purchase program. You are also building such a narrative that it is a failure that a small percentage of the land available has been purchased under this program so far. There are negotiations going on for 800 ha, so it's already a big area. But I am asking you, what was the programme of voluntary acquisition on the motorway or for investments under Euro 2012 under the Platform's government, what percentage was purchased there. I'm saying no, because there was no show. The only option was forced expropriation of public-purpose investments. We're creating an additional program that's just voluntary. If people don't want it, they won't use it if they want it, they'll benefit. It's their good will. And one way or another depends on the will of the people - whether they simply want to use this additional program. [[We're a part of freedom, that's what it is.]] Mr Grammar repeats the misinformation about the course of the Silesian Botanical Garden. First of all, we're talking about one of the few runs. That is the point of this analysis, that we need to set some possible steps, each analyze, consider all aspects. But none of them runs through the Silesian Botanical Garden in the real sense, only the local government has adopted a resolution for this area, where the garden actually is. He has added a very large area, which is not functionally a botanical garden, there do not grow rare specimens of trees, shrubs, etc., while formally it was connected, and that's that. But this is a normal area, let's say, a global economic destination. Mr Marek Polak rightly pointed out the benefits for the economy and for entrepreneurs. As the report of the renowned international company Kearney shows, it is about 300,000. jobs and almost 1 trillion added production to Polish GDP in the perspective of 2040. And that's what the game's about. Whether we want to develop Poland or not. Of course, you verbally declare that you are not against it, but then it appears that you are against it, that you will find every possible and impossible excuse to block this investment process. Mrs Mrzygłocka talked about the fact that people learned during the consultation that this was not an official consultation, and that this was a scandal. Dear Member, that is why it is so that we also carry out additional consultations beyond those required by the law. Yeah, they're not official, they're extra. [[And when will they be normal, official?]] I'm a little embarrassed that I have to give a lecture on existing law, but after the end of the technical and environmental studies and after the third stage of the additional consultation, there is an application for an environmental decision. In proceedings before the Regional Environment Directorate, there are official formal public consultations where all parties can submit their comments. They are settled by this investor-independent body, and then there is a judicial appeal for those who disagree with the outcome. Such a law has actually been in force in Poland for several dozen years, so I am surprised that the Member does not know this existing law and investment process, but at the same time speaks of it with such certainty. Here several times there were issues about the fact that there are social projects and courses that are proposed by local governments and whether they are analysed. They are, they're analyzed every time. Sometimes this analysis is short because there are technical requirements. There can be no mileage, which, for example. skip 10 houses, add 200 million PLN to the cost and 5 km to the length of the line. Sometimes there are proposed routes through strictly protected areas for which we do not get environmental decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, in district A together local governments find a wonderful course, for which they all agree, because it is in district B, and if we consulted in district B, there would be a reverse protest.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u205	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marcin Horała: Or maybe just a little bit? No, because that's what we agreed, Minister. You agreed to this deal. [[There's no corrigendum?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marcin Horała: Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal is already denying me the floor, and I have so many comments to make. Thank you for all these votes - few, but there were also votes from the opposition - which were substantive. There's a consultation going on. According to the law, we will choose the best routes and this investment process for the benefit of the Polish society and economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Is there any chance of a corrigendum?]] Thank you very much. Minister, the marshal didn't take your vote off, he did what he did for you, among other things. And you and I have an appointment. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u206	Current information on the construction of the Central Communication Port together with railway investments and the accompanying threat of expropriation in several voivodships. The Central Communication Port still arouses a lot of emotions. On the Ministry's website we can read that this investment is a planned connecting node between Warsaw and Łódź, which will integrate air, rail and road transport. As part of this project, 37 km to the west of Warsaw, about 3000 ha will be built in the area of Airport of Solidarity, which will be able to handle 40 million passengers per year in the first stage. Despite the constant controversy with the CPK and the government's assurances that the communication port will be created, there is no real action to implement the investment. Please answer: How much land has been purchased under the CPK so far? How many plots for today will have to be exterminated? Does this data indicate only the airport's investment itself, or also the construction of new roads and railway lines throughout Poland? How much does the port board make a month? Will the new railway lines to the CPK be built on existing lines?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the statements of Members of the opposition, there are mainly critical voices on the implementation of the great investment and civilization project, the Central Communication Port. According to the assumptions by the end of 2034 CPK plans to build 12 railway routes leading from various regions of Poland to the capital and new airport. Nearly 2,000 km of new railway lines are to be built. These investments will be preceded by preliminary market consultations with potential contractors. But in parallel the opposition tries to block this strategic investment for the development of Poland. The Green Party, which is part of the Civic Coalition, has decided to complain to the European Commission about the construction of the Central Communication Port, on the grounds that the investment is not justified by economic or transport reasons. It calls on the government to stop this investment. The nature and animal activists claim that the government intends to concrete the caps, plates, storks, woodpeckers and beetles. Therefore, I ask the Ministry of Infrastructure: Can these destructive actions delay or even stop the construction of certain railway lines? [[But you'd be more cultural, Minister. You're gonna hiccup someday, that shoe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u208	We proceed to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland (print No 2263). I would like to ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to present the reasons for the bill. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present today on behalf of the parliamentary club, on behalf of the Members of the Law and Justice, a draft amendment to the Constitution. Exactly 39 years ago, the 40th President of the United States gave a famous speech in Orlando, Florida, where he made memorable words about the empire of evil. Over the next 10 years, the problem seemed to have passed. Some thinkers even announced the end of the story. It quickly turned out how wrong they were. It can be said today with certainty and firmness that this empire of evil counterattacks, and it looks as it predicted several years ago in Tbilisi sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. High Izbo! Yesterday it was 3 months since the military, although it can really be said: from the criminal attack of the Republic, the attack of the Russian Federation on Ukraine. It's been three months since we've been dealing with bombing, shooting civilian objects. It has been three months, during which Ukraine heroically defends itself against its dominant opponent. It has been three months, during which more than 3.5 million Ukrainian citizens sought security within the borders of the Republic of Poland. It can be made clear today that public authorities, state authorities, local authorities, but above all sacrifice, the dedication of hundreds of thousands of Poles helped to prevent the humanitarian crisis. Poland is, you can say, a key neighbour of Ukraine. Poland could not stand behind, could not stand silently against what was happening in Ukraine. Today is the time to stop saying it's just Putin's war. There's time to stop saying it's just the Kremlin War. This is a war waged by the Russian Federation, directly assaulting a free, independent and sovereign state, but indirectly it is a war aimed at the whole Western world and at our values. High Izbo! This war takes place on several levels. Of course, this most frightening, horrible level is the level of events that take place in Kiev, Mariupol and Ukraine as a whole. The second level of war is propaganda war. She, yes, is won by the free world in Europe, although when we look at Asia or Africa, the matter is not so clear. And there's the third level of this war. It is an economic war, and this is also the case with changes in the constitution proposed by the group of Members of the Law and Justice. High Izbo! We propose two fundamental amendments to the basic law. First of all, the amendment of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the exclusion from the rule of financial defence expenditure, secondly, the addition of a new chapter, Chapter 9a, Article. 234a, who talks about the threat of state security and allows for the confiscation of assets of entities belonging to the country's aggressor. High Izbo! Turning to a brief discussion of the changes to the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5, let's start with the exact wording that we have today: You must not borrow or provide guarantees and financial guarantees, in which, as a result of the public debt, you will exceed 3/5 of the annual gross domestic product. [[Read on.]] What results from such a construction, for what reason did the legislator, or whatever, impose such rigid rules on the executive authority, but also on the legislative authority? It can be said that this is a constitutionalisation of European requirements, and we are talking in particular about the article. Article 126 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the protocols added to it, i.e., the concept of excessive deficit. It's been further defined. We are talking about 3% of the public deficit, which cannot be exceeded in relation to the gross domestic product expressed at market prices, and 60% of the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product expressed at market prices. Of course, one can ask the question - and it is asked, it is also formulated in the context of these changes - whether the situation in Poland related to public debt is so bad, worrying that we have to make such changes today. We have the latest Eurostat data, it is worth knowing it, it is worth mentioning it, about public debt in the European Union, of course caused, to a large extent, by the issue of COVID, in the years 2020-2021: Greece - 193% , Italy - 150% , Portugal - 127% , Spain - 118% , France - 113% , Belgium - 108% , Poland - 53.8%. That's the answer to the question of whether this situation is bad. Well, no, you could say she's not bad. So why the idea of excluding defence spending? Because we must also be prepared for more difficult times, because we must have some flexibility in action. Yes, High Izbo - we certainly know this today and we can say it with all determination - in order to enjoy freedom, from independence, from the true sovereignty of the state, we must have a strong army, we must also carry out militarisation. Yeah, that's clear. We have taken up this House - and I am very pleased that with the support of all parliamentary clubs - the Homeland Defense Act, which gives real instruments to act. So the wording itself, as we say, is not wrong to transfer it to the Constitution, although, of course, the doctrine states that the notion of excessive deficit does not exist with regard to the state of public finances or with regard to the state budget. But we know the concept of government deficit, the deficit of local government units. A proposed amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Yeah, that's just the answer to the dangers that might arise. The principle of liberum veto in the First Republic was also not evil in itself, it was distorted in a terrible way. The principle, which is today in the Constitution, which is excluded from European requirements, is not bad either, but its loosening is also supposed to give a signal to the enemies of Poland that Poland will not remain defenceless and will not be limited by constitutional regulations in action which is simply necessary. High Izbo! Second amendment - adding Chapter 9a, Article. 234a: State security threat. Of course, today, during the war, for the state of war, for such a direct threat to the territory of the Republic of Poland, the constitution is prepared, the legislators in this House have prepared a solution, it is. But here we are talking about another situation, one that we are also dealing with today, a situation where, High Izbo, it does not necessarily have to be threatened by the territory of the Republic of Poland. As we have said before, these threats are much broader today, and they are also linked to globalisation. Today, war can be waged in different ways, not just by the army. The threat of state security may be due precisely to bringing the humanitarian crisis to the state, to the threat of biological weapons and to a number of other reasons that are not even worth inventing here. Just the essence of this change, the reason for this change is so that we can confiscate the assets. [[Quick, this is important.]] Quick, yes, quick, Mr. President, this is important. It is a confiscation that is to hit the state of an aggressor, a confiscation of entities that either use their profits directly or indirectly to support the state of an aggressor, or are directly linked to public authorities. Therefore, in the public debate there is also a number of ridiculous times, I have an impression, accusations, and there is also a complete misunderstanding of this matter. Well, it's said that you could really do that. use extended confiscation. After all, you have introduced it -- this is a parliamentary majority -- why don't you use it now? Of course you can't use it because it's about property that's been acquired illegally, and we're talking about a wider category of cases. It is also said that this may apply to citizens of the Republic of Poland. No, it's not. It can't be about them. It's said to be against the rules. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. All constitutional rules, except for Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions will be preserved. Moreover, it must be made clear that the details of the transfer of ownership to the State Treasury will be determined by the law implementing the provision of the Constitution, and all constitutional rules will be preserved in relation to the ordinary law, including the prohibition of arbitraryness, including the principles of legalism and the rule of law, or the existence of a judicial route. It's said, High Izbo, that you don't really need these changes. We are accused that we do not need it to introduce that other countries do not need it. He's wrong about freezing. Yes, today we have frozen assets, also thanks to the bill adopted by the High House. But we're not talking about freezing, we're talking about confiscation of assets for the Treasury and targeting them for people, entities or other institutions that are affected by the actions of the country's aggressor. Incomprehensible is also covered by Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. It refers to the possibility of expropriation when it is carried out for public purposes. Yes, yes, it can be done, but with due compensation. Well, yes, we will use these solutions, from this article - we just had a debate about Central Communication Port - in matters of strategic investment, but this cannot be a form of repression. After all, it is a question of returning to these people even with the loss they will bear. But here we're talking about hitting the regime to hit the country's aggressor. That's the primary objective. And, of course, this proposal to amend the Constitution clearly states that today... Moreover, the requirement of compensation under the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is absolute, as confirmed by the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, stating here: The constitutional guarantee refers to the need to pay compensation, which is temporarily correlated with the collection of property, and to the amount of compensation received. It is important that expropriation, compulsory removal of property, without compensation and thus the acquisition of property rights by public entities constitutes an infringement (the bell) of Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions, even if necessary because of an important public objective. Such records are in the basic law and we cannot simply remain indifferent to it. High Izbo! I know my time is running out. If Mr. Marshal is so good and he gives me a second to sum up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u210	It's not very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u211	The adoption by the High House of these amendments will, of course, also result in the need to amend several laws, in particular those relating to the amendment of the article. 216 constitutions. High Izbo! I bring in and ask for support from the clubs, all the parliamentary clubs, these changes. These are changes that have no political colors, they have no political purpose. These are changes that are supposed to hit not anyone in this room, not voters, not the interests of any of the groups, but one purpose - the state of the aggressor. And yes, these are broader changes, of course, than those concerning the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, because in the Constitution these changes must be formulated in such a way. After all, we want them to apply to the rules, to be universal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u212	Mr President, we are nearing the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u213	I'm almost done. Edmund Burke said that only one thing to triumph evil enough to keep good people out of action. And today is indeed the time for us to work together. I bring in and I ask all the clubs together, together, not to bid on who's more against Putin, to fight, to challenge the empire of evil. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[He's even done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u214	The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Michał Jacha from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the contested bill amending the provision in our constitution. The Constitution is a specific legal act that has been developed for many years so as to constitute the stability of the state for many years. The president of the constitution, who created the current constitution, said that we adopted a legal act for 20 years. It's been 20 years. This constitution is still functioning. But any new provision introduced into the Constitution must have deep strategic significance for you. Change can only justify the emergence of quite unpredictable circumstances that permanently change our lives, our perception of reality. Therefore, it is worth asking for a start whether something such has happened, that it is necessary to change the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Minister Schreiber has just started his speech with a description of this situation. February 24th, barbaric, beastly. The behaviour of the Russian Federation troops in Ukraine has shown that they are able to exceed any civilizational standards of behavior that the states of the modern world can imagine. Barbarians in Europe, almost in the centre of Europe, murder, torture innocent people, civilians, rape, steal, kill, act like the worst hordes in Europe in our history, which were left behind by the hordes of burned land. This is what Ukraine looks like after the Russian troops passed, where they managed to accomplish this task of destruction, not only defeating the military, but also economic and civilizational destruction. The Russians do so, hoping for similar behaviour that has taken place for many years with regard to Chechnya, Georgia, Ukraine in 2014, when after several dramatic speeches, declarations, then letters of condemnation from the West were returned to normal functioning and Russia, the Russian Federation, its citizens were accepted as normal people, such as those from the West. And that's why we have to say that Russia is a threat. not only military, this is an existential threat to Poland. And the existential threat requires adequate preparation, adoption of adequate solutions, so that Poland is prepared not only to resist Russian aggression in our territory, but to give Russia a guarantee or a strong assurance that it will not be able to occupy even a piece of the Republic of Poland. We must therefore take such measures as will allow the government to allow the Polish state to prepare for future generations to live and develop without feeling threatened by the Russian Federation - the Russian Federation, which represents the worst evil that a civilized man can invent at the beginning of the 21st century. The actions of the Russian Federation so far, presented by its representatives, disregarding international law and the behaviour of the free world, justify the belief that the Russian Federation does not count on having to bear any costs associated with this war. That's why we have to do what we can do. And for that, a revision of the basic law is required. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a new provision on budgetary discipline, introducing a new method for calculating public debt, to which expenditure is not to be included, national defence funds, is something that will allow this government and subsequent governments, regardless of who will rule, to use other forms of financing, not just the statutory provision of the Homeland Defense Act on a certain percentage of GDP for national defence expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland and the Polish Armed Forces need resources, large resources to strengthen our potential not only for defence but also for deterrents, these resources are needed now, this year, next year and in the years to come. The situation of Poland's public finances is really good against the background of Europe. As far as debt goes, we're in 11th place. 18 countries have many times higher debts. [[Not many times. Not even twice.]] Madam President, I am expressing myself precisely - Polish debt is 56% And the Ukrainian is almost 200%. [[What about outside the budget?]] Average debt in the European Union is, ladies and gentlemen, 91% GDP and debt in the euro area is 99% GDP. So that Poland's debt is not as serious as many other countries. This will increase national defence spending. The second change, the addition of a chapter on the threat of state security and the creation of a new concept of state security, will allow me to financially punish the representatives of the state of the aggressor, which does not necessarily threaten Poland directly, and will allow for the collection of assets that are... for confiscation, I apologize, the confiscation of assets located in Poland, owned by citizens of the aggressor state and its institutions. This is not only a legal solution, but it is a simple civilization solution. The institutions and citizens of a country that assaults someone else who causes losses are responsible for the death and threat of other citizens - as well as those who support the aggressor. With full responsibility, I signed the bill and encourage representatives of all clubs to join us in supporting it. Less than three months ago, we almost unanimously adopted the Homeland Defense Act, a fundamental document. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today's solution is also a continuation of this document. Law and Justice fully supports the bill. He will vote in favour and encourage all clubs to be unanimous with this particular solution, so that we can all approach this bill in the same way as the Homeland Defense Act. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u216	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Robert Kropiwnicki from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u217	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on this, you have to say, a sad project, because the project is unfortunately, let's say it honestly, a simple scam. It is sad that you are trying to use the greatest and most important instruments for your unfortunate political game. That you don't hesitate to use the draft constitutional amendment to cover up your own incompetence. That it's all for you, even the greatest misfortune, as your colleague said, it's political gold. That you want to use even as great tragedies as war to play some of your little business. And that's why we think that this change is simply unnecessary, that it's an apparent change. [[What are you saying?]] Then suddenly you remembered the constitution. You've broken it many times. You have not published judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ba, you didn't publish the bill when the bill was inconvenient for you. At the time, the constitution didn't bother you, but suddenly, now, you need the constitution and there's even a change. When you took huge, giant debts, you didn't need a change of constitution. Let me remind you because you wrote this in your own document, in the convergence plan that you sent to Brussels, that today 72% Polish debt is outside the budget, outside Parliament's control and outside the control of the Minister of Finance. [[Applause]] Today we will spend about PLN 50 billion on debt management. For service - not for payment of debt, just for interest. Let me remind you that the 500+ programme is about 40 billion, and we're going to spend nearly 50 billion on interest. You simply spend on your stupid often needs wide-handed and do not count the public penny at all, do not respect the money of Poles. And that's misfortune. And today you want to change the constitution so that you can make even more of it - even more respirators, masks, two towers and a number of other interests of yours legitimize. And that's misfortune. [[For the army.]] Yes? The army, you say? So remember what Minister Błaszczak has spent his money on so far. Not on caracales, not on systems of Patriots, not on tanks, but on benches of independence, on field altars, and the top of his achievements is a hospital in Legionów, which builds in its city from a fund for defense. And that's misfortune. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, sir. It's not about whether it's a lot or it's not. [[Propaganda. Do you know how much a tank costs?]] In fact, it's about how you treat public money. The fact that you were buying field altars and the hospital in the minister's city is more important to you than tanks than... [[And you don't need a hospital?]] But not from the defense fund. The hospital is always needed, but not from the defense fund. And now: the key is that you owe the Polish country worse than Gierek, really. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that Donald Tusk was paying off Gierka's last debts, and you want to do that after 2040 or 2050, we'll be paying off your debts. And that's classic irresponsible. The creators of the constitution have made this very wise. The National Bank of Poland is to be responsible for the value of money. Members are limited in debt limits. The government is responsible for the finances, for the budget, because only the government can increase its limits. You went around it, creating a PFR and spending billions with a light hand, putting them mostly into your own. [[Helping entrepreneurs.]] This construction today is a fuse, it is a fuse of solidarity between generations, because it protects grandchildren from the stupidity of their grandparents - so that they do not burden future generations with your stupidity (Applause), the fact that we will spend money on clowns, which will be performed by Minister Błaszczak. For this reason, we believe that the Constitution should not be amended in this respect. The Constitution is well thought out and protects against the lack of responsibility of people like you. You can't give this instrument to you. You will infinitely increase your debt for defence needs. You've shown how you can interpret the password: defensive needs. Those were altars and benches and all that nonsense. [[Billions. Billions, right?]] This is your way of doing things. You just have to protect Poles from this, from your irresponsibleness, because your populism has no boundaries. You really didn't settle the tens of your scandals. I want you to account for the respirator scandal, the massage scandal, the KNF scandal, the GetBack scandal... [[Ofe.]] ...of PLN 70 million Sasina. And if it's not enough, you have to do something about it. Meanwhile, you are moving towards classical populism, which is why we believe that this is a very, very harmful project with regard to the revision of the article. 216. Besides, it is similar with the really apparent chapter that you are trying to add to the article. 234a, this is a classic attempt to bypass Chapter 2. So what if you write this article? 234a, since they remain Article. 46 and Article 46 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 21? We showed you, we gave you a bill that gives you the possibility of actual confiscation of assets without changing the constitution, with respect for the article. 46 and Article 46 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 21. Art. 21 speaks of expropriation, and Art. Forty-six on loss. Only a court can decide the loss of property. [[For years.]] It has to be done by law. That's how you write you have to make a bill like that. We therefore believe that this is an apparent change, that you do not really have the zeal to deal with the Russian property, that it is only the European Union that forces you to freeze and confiscate that you needed a special law. Since 2014, there has been a directive that you have simply not used. Maybe you didn't want to take Kantor's estate. When he appeared on the European sanctions list, it was only then that you remembered and frozen his assets, and so far you have failed. You still don't do well because you have mouths full of clichés, full of declarations, but when it comes to work, unfortunately, it's weak. It is very weak in terms of compliance with and enforcement of European sanctions. It will probably turn out again that European legislation will be faster and more effective than what you are proposing. If you really want to execute the Russian property that is in Poland, just accept our bill, which we have filed. [[Then go to court.]] Of course it has to be court-martialed. There's gotta be a prosecutor's motion. There's gotta be a court. We have put forward concrete proposals for amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure. It gives you a chance to do it. If you look at the very provision that you propose in this article. 234, concerning the fact that the property may be taken over by the State Treasury by law and without compensation in cases where it may be presumed... It can be taken by willfully or by the law - or something is taken by the law and it is simply automatic, or something is voluntary, and you just do it with your left hand to your right ear. This is the worst-written constitutional standard I've ever seen. Really, you just can't read it. It's completely incomprehensible and unacceptable, either in this version or... That, in my opinion, cannot be improved. We are applying to reject this project at first reading, thinking that it is an apparent change, that it is a change that leads to nothing, except that it will cause you even greater fornication in terms of public pennies, because you will simply go crazy. Today, you remembered that you had to buy airplanes, that you had to buy tanks. What have you been doing for six years? You were building a war yard in Radom, right? [[Do you really want to talk about it?]] That's what you guys did. Macierewicz threw out all your shopping projects, and today you woke up with your hand in the potty, so get to work. As part of what is, we agreed to a serious Homeland Defense Act, we agreed to increase the defence budget. These are strong instruments. Do it and don't look for a hole in the whole thing, wanting to change the constitution, to legalize your idiots. [[You're the one looking for the hole.]] Mr. Marshal! I request that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Kulasek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government of the United Right, which has been trampling on the rule of law and devastates the legal system in Poland for 7 years, is today reaching out to the opposition, asking that the opposition side by side with the government change the fundamental law. Let me tell you something: the constitution doesn't change with the enemies of the constitution. We don't trust you and we don't trust you. Don't count on it for our votes. You have won the election, you have a mandate to rule, but you have no mandate to change your system, and yet you try to do it without a constitutional majority. [[Exactly.]] You're not gonna get it now either. [[Because of you.]] This is not our agreement, especially since what you're proposing is a set-up not to say fraud. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5 The basic law states that loans or guarantees and financial guarantees must not be taken into account, as a result of which the public The calculation of the annual gross domestic product and public debt is governed by law. Let us listen well to the last sentence: The method of calculating the annual value of gross domestic product and public debt is defined by the Act. So you can change the regulations regarding financing the development of the Polish army without changing the constitution. [[That's what cunning is.]] A simple change at the statutory level would suffice. It would probably gain similar support as the Homeland Defense Act. In the same bill, you created the Armed Forces Support Fund, which is still funded outside the state budget. So? Isn't that still enough? After two months, you thought that bill wasn't enough? But you don't want simple solutions. You'd rather go on short circuit. You love to fight these wars, and then you yell that she owes everything to a bad opposition that doesn't want to cooperate. And the opposition is guarding the legal order and - I will surprise you - the opposition cannot be provoked. We will continue to support the growth of defence capabilities of the Polish army. We support 3% destiny GDP for defence. We support the directing of this money to the Polish arms company, which must have its share in the efforts to modernise the army. We support the development of the country's air defence, as soon as possible the implementation of the programmes. We support the addition of personal states to military units. Currently, the completion of many units reaches 60%. We support the defence capabilities of the state in a professional army composed of well-trained and equipped specialists. We object to the restoration of the conspiracy. We support the return to active service of younger military pensioners. Poland cannot afford to have experienced officers retired in the current situation. We also support the retention in the service of senior officers. We support the normalization of relations with the Polish Army Soldiers' Union, which was expelled from military facilities during the time of Minister Macierewicz. We support the dislocation of parts of armored troops from the west wall to the east of the Vistula line, the creation of the Podlaskie Mechanized Division. We support further purchases of unmanned aircraft, drones. We support the purchase of exploratory satellites, the construction of elements of the Polish satellite recognition system, the development of the European system and access to the US system. Finally, we support the creation of a European army and the development of its defence capabilities. But we do not support and support the destruction of the legal system by amending the constitution that the United Right Government wants. We're not gonna put our hands on that wreckage you've been serving us for seven years. We can't change the constitution with the enemies of the constitution. The next thing you know, you're getting into the Constitution, it's a declaration that you want to take your property away from the Russian oligarchs. If that's the case, answer the question of the value of the assets you've frozen. Because just telling you what you're gonna do is for the oligarchs, an alarm bell to hide their assets effectively. I don't want to accuse the government that that was the intention of the announcement, but there may be consequences. In the event of a constitutional change to confiscate property, you hit the fence again. You're proposing solutions that are unnecessary. For already now it is possible to confiscate the property of Russian oligarchs in Poland. Let me explain how to do this in a few steps. [[And fast.]] First of all, Art. 46 of the Constitution allows the confiscation of property on the basis of a judgment of the court. [[How long does it take?]] Secondly, there is an Article in the Penal Code. 117, which exonerates praise and support the conduct of the assault war. [[Time, time.]] Thirdly, even now, if, even indirectly, an act recognised as a criminal offence leads to a property advantage, the court may decide to forfeit the matter. [[Time.]] So if some oligarch supports the war in Ukraine, it benefits from cooperation with Putin's regime, then the Polish court can deprive him of his blood-broken property. [[For a month?]] More than a month ago, Mr Leo had tabled amendments to the draft... [[For years.]] ...sanctionary laws facilitating the execution of confiscation of property in the event of an offence under Article. 117 criminal code. Our amendments have been rejected by your votes. You didn't understand them... [[No.]] Or is it the opposite? One thing, however, is understandable to anyone who has a little oil in his head. You must not change the constitution with the enemies of the constitution. You can't change the constitution in times of plague. The plague is COVID, the plague is war, but the plague is also the attack on the Polish constitution, the rule of law and independent courts. [[Voice from the room: Exorcist.]] 25 years ago, on 25 May 1997, the nation in a referendum approved a constitution adopted by the National Assembly, a constitution created under the leadership of three chairmen of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly: Aleksandra Kwasniewski, Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz and Mark Mazurkiewicz, a constitution created by historical compromise and completing the round table agreement. You do not have the majority of the people behind you to change your decision from a quarter of a century ago. You don't have a constitutional majority in this room either. You've got most of the usual, and it's just so barely... [[You'd like to have one.]] ...arted in a manner derogatory to the dignity of the High House. That's why I have simple messages for you: hands off the Constitution and long live the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Something extraordinary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u220	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: For him it's good.]] [[Voice from the room: At least aptly.]] I was just wondering if I could comment on that, Mr President. I have a favor to ask of you. Never speak of another Member: for him it is good, because it is simply rude. [[You don't lower yourself to that level, Marshal.]] Please, Mr Paweł Bejda, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is an extraordinary event. Interference in the content of the basic law, a kind of social agreement approved by the people through a referendum always requires reflection, broad consultation and reasonableness. Therefore, the initiative to amend the Constitution should not be hasty and unprejudiced by dialogue within Parliament and with society. The submission of this draft law does not meet such a defined standard. Moreover, the instruments proposed by the Members under it do not fit into the standard derived from one of the fundamental constitutional values: the principle of proportionality. The legislator should not take such significant initiatives interfering in the stability of the finances of the Republic of Poland and its reputation if the objectives pursued by it can be achieved using the legal means currently available. Of course, I do not question in the same way the need to involve more public resources in defence expenditures. The Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland has so far supported such activities. At this point in time, the government has sufficiently effective instruments resulting, inter alia, from this. from the Homeland Defense Act to strengthen and develop the military potential of the Polish army. It is worth noting that multi-billion-dollar resources are available for this purpose, e.g. from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, which for the previous year amounted to about PLN 11 billion. The NBP President publicly emphasized the purpose of allocating the profit to the central bank, among other things. for defensive purposes. In addition, it must be borne in mind that despite the extremely loose, inflation-driven budgetary policy, the government still has a substantial reserve, the difference between the state of public debt referred to in Article. 216 (5) of the Constitution and the limit laid down in that Constitutional provision on debt. According to the data resulting from the Council of Ministers' Resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget in 2021, the public debt in relation to GDP was 43.8% at the end of the previous year. To the constitutional limit of 60% So it's still far away. Unless there's something in the current budget that you have to hide and that you're not talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike the government, which reminded itself of the need to increase the capacity of the Polish army only in the situation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, the coalition club of the Polish People's Party has indicated for many years the need to increase the number of armed forces and increase the expenditure on defence. All we have to do is recall our election programmes from the recent parliamentary or presidential elections. In the 2019 PSL program we join Poles ¿ as the only Polish party we wrote directly that if we invest PLN 80 billion in technical modernisation of the armed forces and they go to Polish plants, it will return to the state budget to PLN 30 billion. The program of the Polish People's Party is therefore a clear proof that we have been dealing with state security for years. As the only concrete plans we have for strengthening the armed forces of the Republic of Poland and the development of individual Polish weapons facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, during work on the Homeland Defense Act, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party club generally supported the government's proposals by proposing only one, but very important and crucial amendment. We proposed that every year at least half of all expenditure on technical modernisation of the armed forces should be made available by law to Polish weapons facilities. By rejecting this amendment, the PiS Members have taken away the future of the Polish armament facilities, as this can lead to many such enterprises even to a fall, as indicated, among other things. All union workers in the arms sector. You have taken away the new jobs that were to be created for the annual investments in Polish arms plants at the level of tens of billion PLN. So if today the same politicians of Law and Justice demand a change in the Constitution to indebt Polish society even more, then I ask the question: Where is the Polish taxpayer's money to go this time if not to Polish companies? Who is really going to benefit from the fact that the next generation of our compatriots will pay the debts of your government? However, in order to fully understand the possible consequences of the changes in the Constitution proposed by the government, we need to know exactly what amounts we are talking about. Therefore, with the full support of the need to strengthen our country's security urgently, we believe that we need to know more when making decisions that indebted Polish society for decades. So I ask the government: What are the amounts we are talking about when we change the constitution? For what specific purposes are these amounts to be spent, and what concrete benefits will the Polish army and the Polish economy benefit from spending these funds? At the same time, since the government is demanding a historic increase in defence funds, it is worth asking, what has the PiS government spent over PLN 100 billion in the budget over the last 7 years, and what are the benefits of this huge burden on the Polish taxpayer? It turns out that the answers to this question have already been answered by the Law and Justice politicians themselves, who, after 7 years of government, have just admitted that they have brought Polish arms plants to a state in which they cannot carry out orders for the Polish army. Today, the government boasts of buying Turkish drones for 1 billion PLN, but it turns out that if this 1 billion PLN in 2016 were to go to Polish plants, such as Military Aviation Plant No.1 in Łódź, today the Polish army would use Polish drones, not waiting for Turkish ones. It was enough to trust Polish engineers at the right time and give them the means to carry out the order for the Polish army. Today, the government demands a mountain of money from the public and simply declares that this money will not go to Polish arms plants employing Polish workers. This is absurd and outrageous. It is also strangely easy for you to make decisions about multi-billion-dollar purchases of equipment in other countries, instead of investing these funds in the development of Polish arms plants, which would benefit the entire Polish economy. What is the purpose of such destruction of Polish industry? That's not what the voters expect from us, politicians. In 2020 about PLN 10 billion was spent on the five largest weapons contracts of the MON. And do you know how many of them went to the Polish armament facilities? [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] 700 million, only 7%. Is this rational management? You only push your pockets into foreign companies, without even bothering to provide offsets or production and service for Polish factories. If it goes on like this, you'll leave the Polish armory in ruins. The priority for the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party is and will always be strong and safe Poland. We understand this security by the strength of the Polish arms industry based on the minds of Polish engineers, not on the mass purchases of foreign equipment at the expense of Polish weapons plants. We have the potential to become a local power just like Turkey. Poland is able to achieve a similar level of military power based on the domestic arms industry, which even Russia will be faced with. I would like to believe that you also want such a powerful Poland, and that is why we propose that, before ever amending the Constitution, we amend the Act on the Defence of Homeland in accordance with the amendment tabled by the Polish People's Party, the coalition club, providing Polish arms plants with billions of investments in the development of a new future. Let us trust our weapons facilities, trust the Polish engineers that they are able to make our homeland a military power. What's more, such a vision of strong Poland was often represented by who? Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. Therefore, as a club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party, we intend to amend the Homeland Defense Act again, according to which every year at least half of all expenditure on technical modernization of the Armed Forces (The Bell) will be invested in Polish arms plants. In addition, if we are serious about changes ever in the Constitution for our security, we propose to include in the Act the essential presence of the Republic of Poland in the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. This is the real guarantee of security these days. Without strong allies at our side, maybe now in Suwałki we would have a second Mariupol, and in Augustów Forest we would have troops of green people. And we cannot be sure of our membership in these organizations, for Law and Justice alone raises anti-EU cancer at their side. If, God forbid, they will grow and like them in strength, perhaps only the constitution will keep us in these crucial and important alliances for the security of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This isn't an army money bill, it's another PiS money heist. You don't know how to do a good Polish army, because if you knew, the Polish Armed Group would not have a seventh president. Yes, my fellow Member. It's a shame that you're clinging to arms companies, not showing any sensible strategy, that you're talking about shopping for the Polish army, and really, as we've been talking about here, you're pushing foreign companies' pockets. This has no order, no composition, no meaning, nor did the statements at the largest arms conference of your representative, Mr Jacha, two days ago have no order or composition. At the biggest conference on defence policy and arms, the government's representative in the debate was most discredited. a representative of the ruling force. Like today, he had nothing to say on the stand and talked about things he doesn't know about, just like he said about defense policy two days ago. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a change of constitution to give you the opportunity - from 370 million to the Prime Minister's firm, which was last year, this year. You've made 800 million -- adding more billions to make sure you have the money for your own, because that's the essence of your power. If you want to look for money for the Polish army, why do you give hundreds of millions, billions of dollars for TV subsidies with a light hand? Why do you spend billions on additional public administration costs, red tape? Because it's a benefit to you that this is your financial policy that leads the country to ruin. Today, all Polish families see and feel this ruin. Unfortunately, you are not reformers of the Polish army, but a team of greedy political grandparents who prey on the next generations, because debt of the country is debt of the next generations, which will have to pay off these debts. It's a shame. The Confederation is strongly opposed to such manipulation, which does not serve Poland, does not serve defence, serves to push your pockets. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The confederate is indited.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u225	Dear Marshal, An application for rejection at first reading has already been made, so we do not have to repeat it. This project will of course not pass because its function is different, this is another project from the cycle: we separate light from darkness. Those who are not merely pursuing the right line of the United Law on matters currently concerning public opinion will be included in the Russian agents and enemies of their homeland, and that is probably what this is all about. By the way, you have produced a list of disgraces, because who signed under this project - scripta manent, he has expressed his barbarism in the approach to legal construction of the Republic. To suggest that in the constitution it is written that it expropriates itself without judgment, without such cool civilizational standards as the right to defend, a coded delicacy, that is barbarism. You're troglodytes. Mr President, the host of this project, you are dangerous to the legal environment. Therefore, although this project will ultimately not be successfully pushed through, I think it is worth paying attention to the public, because it perfectly bears witness to you, shows who you are. Suggesting that the basis of confiscation be, attention, thought... You can think of what is not forbidden, is allowed, anyone can think. Me, for example. I'm getting suspicious in my old age... [[And you can see that.]] ...and all sorts of things I think about you guys, getting worse. If the idea is to be the basis for confiscating, then again, you're troglodytes. You're troglodytes. Ladies and gentlemen! In Transatlantic Gombrowicz, such is the figure, the notabene of the Sanitation official, and his motto is this: I am not so mad as to think or not to think. Since belief is not forbidden, PiS would want people to confiscate what belongs to them on the basis of ideas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame on you, shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u226	Thank you very much. According to the old tradition, I wanted to say hello to the students and guardians of Primary School 8 from Sanoka. [[Applause]] As you can see, we are discussing the Constitution. That's the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, but also the undoubted pleasure of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Circle Polska 2050 Szymon Hołowni on the subject of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to Members of the Law and Justice - we cannot allow you to increase Poland's debt unreasonably and recklessly today, because when enemies come and stand at our gates, there will be nothing to finance the defence. You spend money without any reflection. We need a functioning state, armed forces with the potential to deter, resilient economy, exploit the defence potential of the society involved, not the propaganda change of the constitution, so Poland 2050 proposed to increase defence spending and other measures to increase our potential and to engage in the work on the law that was to guarantee it. Unfortunately, the most important thing for Law and Justice is the party business, not the state interest. Therefore, the first amendment in the Act is to ensure that around 90 billion PLN is released in the state budget. For what? For the future election campaign and this has nothing to do with the interests of the Republic of Poland. The Homeland Defense Act will increase spending by about 30 billion, but PiS wants to unwarrante all defence expenditure, place it outside the constitutional barrier. It is in all this that is most dramatic and harmful: that in a situation of such great threat from the East, when public spending needs to be rationalised, care for the increase in the quality of the Armed Forces, you mostly take care of yourselves and do everything you can to maintain power. More shockingly, Minister Schreiber mentioned the advantages of this law, among others. the example of Greece, Italy, in terms of debt, that is, countries that have either fallen or nearly collapsed on the first delicate breeze of the crisis. Minister, we really need to change these patterns. How do we know that money can be found without a change of constitution? It is only at this meeting that Law and Justice submitted draft laws, which increase Poland's commitments by about PLN 30 billion. Poland will pay for the Disciplinary Chamber - it is PLN 1 billion, excess money at the Prime Minister's office is PLN 0.5 billion. You're sleeping at the Prime Minister's office on money instead of handing them over to defense. 2 billion PLN for propaganda in public media and, attention, Lotus refinery sold below its value. All you have to do is not steal, and that's enough for everything. Instead, the PiS wants to save this theft in the Constitution. Absolute scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Law and Justice are doing today is absolutely unacceptable. The second part, which concerns confiscation of assets. This recipe looks like deliberate negligence. Such imprecise terms mean that Russian oligarchs will be able to sue sentences, and in fact, in time they will regain their wealth. This is what the provisions that are in the Constitution today are aimed at, even if proposed in the context of the revision presented by the PiS. Even if the question of the reason for the wording is: it can be presumed. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way there are no provisions to guarantee legal certainty. This is sabotage. I'm curious if anyone even checked the authors of this legislation, because it seems to me to be a special, ladies and gentlemen, an omission. Of course, it is possible to use the provisions of the Penal Code after the amendment. We are all aware that this requires a prolonged trial. Similarly, EU and Polish legislation on freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime could be applied after the amendment. Of course, that also requires a trial. On the other hand, if we were to apply solutions such as these are. In the German Constitution, as the applicants point out, they would have to be clear, precise and very precisely guaranteeing the powers of the State in this regard. These provisions, the proposal made by the Law and Justice, are absolutely not exhaustive, and this proposal cannot be supported either. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, these proposals are exclusively based on the party interest, only on the interest which is intended to guarantee the grouping of Law and Justice to function as a power. We don't agree (the bell) organically with this sort of thing. Poland's defence challenges require a rise above any party interests. You can't do it today, you're destroying the constitution, and you're trying to put your back door into power in such a dirty way in the next election. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I propose that the parliamentary draft law be rejected in respect of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen! No one knowingly gets on a bus full of pickpockets. And we will not change the constitution with you either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u228	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I'll also say hello to Shooting School. I've changed well, haven't I? Or Shooters? In any case, we warmly greet you. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Stanisław Bukov.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Constitution plays a special role in the Polish legal system. It is both its foundation and its culmination. This item is particularly affected by the mode of making changes to its content. This procedure shall be governed by Article. 235 of our basic law. The provision is based on higher requirements than those of the ordinary legislative initiative. It protects against any attempt to make accidental changes to the Constitution. The amendment of the Constitution is not to be a need for a moment, it is to be a thoughtful move to bring the State closer to the programmed objective, particularly important from the point of view of the functioning of the state or the well-being of society. The amendment prepared at the initiative of the PiS Members is to be the result of a war that is taking place beyond our eastern border and to serve issues related to strengthening state security. However, the solutions proposed raise our serious doubts. Firstly, the reservation is based on the way in which the proposed amendments have been made to the Sejm. They have all the marks of a typical, sudden legislative outlay. This not only hinders a substantive and in-depth discussion on such fundamental issues as changes in the Constitution, but, unfortunately, what we already know from the experience of this House, is a form of procedure which could obscure the real intentions of the applicants and, consequently, the effects of the proposed solutions. Secondly, the content of the proposed amendment to the Article also raises doubts. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European In its current wording, this provision prohibits the borrowing or granting of guarantees and financial guarantees which would result in the State's public debt being exceeded by 3/5 of the annual GDP value. It's not just a polish device. It is a mechanism to protect citizens from the temptations of populist power to give away not their money at the expense of future generations. That's exactly what PiS does. Perhaps if you didn't have such a policy if you hadn't had a good time and had a more rational budget policy in time, today, during the crisis, military spending wouldn't require legislative gymnastics, because it would just be in the budget. This solution shapes the positive image of Poland as a borrower, minimizing the risk of uncontrolled growth of debt. In addition, the constitutional debt limit can be seen as a specific complement to the EU excessive deficit procedure. To put it simply, the presence of this mechanism makes us credible in the eyes of our European partners, and it is also an expression of responsibility for the whole community, although I know that this argument will not be understood by the government. It is difficult to trust the government in this matter, knowing the situation at the Constitutional Court. One can imagine that the tribunal decides that financing the purchase of the Pegasus programme or the construction of a local road is a strategic investment due to the security of Poland. Once we know the role of this mechanism and its position in our country's system, I would remind and stress that exceeding this threshold constitutes a violation of the Constitution and should result in the Council of Ministers resigning and pulling its members on the basis of an article. 198 constitutions to be held accountable to the Court of State. The authorities today try to transfer responsibility to others for their inefficient and harmful policy of ill-considered public distribution of funds, so that there is no money for really important investments from the interest of the Republic. As Members of the Agreement, we have repeatedly supported good solutions to improve Poland's security, including: The Homeland Defense Act. Greater army spending, more security spending should be included in the budget, but without changes to the constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the regulations contained in the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitution is also called a fundamental law because it is the foundation of the legal system and the foundation of the functioning of the State. Therefore, talking about its change should be factual and emotionless. The last two decades - not two terms, but two decades - are a time for the rise of constitutional disputes or, in other words, the use of the Constitution as part of the current political dispute. And I'm going to give you an example of this. the dispute over the aircraft, i.e. in fact the dispute over whether the President of the Republic of Poland, in accordance with Article. 126 constitutions, he had the right to represent Poland on the international stage. Or a dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal, in which the so-called. constitutional defenders have turned the magic circle and since the screaming rhetoric that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are final and have the power of the law in force, they have moved to rhetoric in which they took the place of those whom they originally criticized so much. The problem with the rational application of our constitution arose even in the case of proceeding on the current proposal for a change, when it was alleged to the designers that they had hidden this project, that they had first talked about the change of the constitution and then abandoned its procession. Dear State, the procedure for amending the Constitution is laid down in the Constitution itself and requires that it be at least one month from the presentation of the draft to its first reading. I therefore encourage the so-called. defenders of the Constitution to read its content, because showing ignorance is sometimes funny and sometimes just pathetic. Paraphrasing classics: constitution, fools, constitution. On the other hand, referring directly to this project, first of all attention should be paid to the seriousness of the situation we are currently in. It must be made clear that in the current situation we should arm ourselves and modernise our army in order to prevent such crimes as in Bucha from occurring in Poland. The only guarantee of the safety of Poles is a strong and modern army. Let's not make a mistake from the '30s. The 20th century, when the inability to create a deficit budget was actually one of the reasons for the hecatomy of the Polish nation and the semi-century occupation. It should be noted that the material losses in Ukraine so far are estimated at around $600 billion. The war isn't over yet, and Ukraine hasn't won it yet. It is not known how much the price the Ukrainians will pay for freedom and independence will ultimately be. But it is certain that it will be unimaginablely high. As regards the introduction of the possibility of confiscation or the loss of Russian assets in the case of entities located on the territory of the Republic of Poland, I would like to point out that Ukrainians need help now, not in 3 or 5 years' time. I'm there on a regular basis with humanitarian aid. I was on the front line near Kiev. The inhabitants of the destroyed villages do not know how to survive the winter, and they need help now, not in a few years' time when judicial decisions will be passed. [[That's exactly what I'm talking about.]] Knowing the scale of the damage, let us remember that the help that comes too late is an empty aid, a help that will no longer help anyone. Of course, consideration should be given to and discussion of the requests expressed in the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council, but further work is needed in committee in order to be able to discuss them in substance. In view of the threat to the safety of our homeland, we are obliged to take extraordinary steps against the threat of ourselves and our families. Hence the call for all Members to hide their party ambitions, political disputes for a much calmer period. Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 supports further substantive work on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He supports the government.]] [[He doesn't dictate his position, but he wants to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u232	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, the Polish Socialist Party Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the Constitution is detrimental to our homeland, which is why the PPS Parliamentary Circle requests that it be rejected at first reading. PiS is no longer satisfied with breaking the constitution. He wants to change it for the moment. The war with Russia will end, the war with Ukraine will end, and the constitution will stay. And keep it as it is. The Constitution isn't a glove to change it under the color of a dress. Let's not mess around. With the constitution under the will of power. Art. 46 Constitution allows for the confiscation of the property of Russian oligarchs. Specific regulations are also in the Penal Code. Russian assets can now be frozen under European Union regulations. Many countries do this. It can be done by Poland. Unfortunately, we don't know if any property has been frozen so far. In other countries, it's not a secret. PiS does. You need a change of constitution for something completely different. You disable the property of Polish citizens from confiscation, but you allow the confiscation of property of Polish companies and NGOs. Perhaps the real goal is to take the assets away from the uncomfortable Polish entities, and the confiscated funds you want to transfer not to the victims of war, but to your people, just as Ziobro gives money from the Justice Fund not to the victims of crime, but to various organizations associated with his party. Robert Kwiatkowski will talk about the impertinent idea of writing creative accounting in the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Laws governing the justice system, such as: The law on the Supreme Court is too serious to be left to lawyers or graduates of the history department of the University. The same is true in the case of a revision of the Constitution, which is precisely the key element for public finances, which concerns the permitted level of government debt. This is too serious to be left to bankers alone. High Izbo! Although the numbers in this discussion are surprisingly few, we are actually discussing money here. So let me try to catch up with you. In fact, applicants are asking us to allow the state to be in debt without restrictions in terms of defence expenditure. Let me remind you that two months earlier, the whole parliament - this also applies to the Senate - has adopted the Defence Act in full agreement. The pace behind the adoption of this law was astonishing. In the bill, we agreed that defence spending is going to reach 3%. GDP. At the same time today, according to the provisions of the current budget law and the unchanged constitution, we have expenditure of 2,2% GDP. In fact, the whole discussion that we are having here, with patriotic slogans, concerns less than a percentage of GDP. It's about eight promillas. What's the amount? What kind of money are we talking about? If we assume that Poland's GDP is between PLN 2.3 and PLN 2.7 trillion, we are actually talking about PLN 20-22 billion High Izbo, PLN 20 billion it would of course be a huge amount for some company, even a huge one, while the state budget amounts to PLN 500 billion. Putinflation itself, as Prime Minister Morawiecki says about inflation, will make at least twenty billion additional revenues to the state budget. It is clear, then, that it is not about financing. It's easy to reach for that money. The point is to open a gate that will allow the ruling coalition unlimited and unfettered financing of anything you consider to be defence-related. Central Communication Port? There you go. Excavation of the Vistula mine in connection with defense? Absolutely. Fifteenth pension? You're welcome. 3 billion for TVP? It's okay. That's what our group (the bell) will never agree to. We respect and respect the constitution. We will not allow her and the state budget to be destroyed in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u236	Thank you very much. We move on to discussion and questioning. I'm setting the time for a question for one minute. Twenty-seven people came in. I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u237	The geopolitical situation and the negligence of the previous government in the field of defence make it really urgent to increase the expenditure on defence of Poland. It's not worth ignoring the crime of Russia. Poles understand it well. It is great that the Polish government consistently increases spending on modern weapons and increases the size of the Polish army, unlike the opposition. The opposition can insinuate, lie, cause confusion, and call for work. Mr Kropiwnicki had just done so. What this job of yours was, we remember very well: reducing the army's numbers, returning the defense minister's money to the budget almost every year, because it was unnecessary... [[No inflation.]] ...the liquidation of units stationed in a sensitive area, which is the east of Poland. [[Decommissioning.]] It was your job. Sorry, there were still caracales that he didn't want to buy (the bell) even the French government.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u238	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u239	One second, Marshal. There are bottom-up initiatives on the issue of bonds for defence purposes. Is the government considering implementing such a measure? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u240	Thank you, Member I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It takes no shame to come to the Sejm with a change of constitution to drive Poles into a spiral of debt. Next year the interest on Polish public debt alone will amount to almost PLN 70 billion. This is the effect of six years of failed PiS government. They gave us a budget deficit even at a time of great economics, 0.5 A trillion new debt... [[And low unemployment.]] ...very high and growing inflation, weak gold and very fast rising interest rates of NBP. After all, this is a recipe for disaster, and as a result of this disaster, defence spending will decrease and not increase. You know why? 'Cause no one's gonna want to lend you money unless on a loan shark percentage... [[That's Amber Gold.]] ...for which citizens will pay. And one more thing. They want to spend this money outside Parliament's control. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That means that the Armed Forces Support Fund can lose money on two tanks, and it's only gonna be on one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u242	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u243	And we will, without trying, how Putin wonders that the army was supposed to be strong and weak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u244	I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! For print no 2263, which we are talking about today, the General Bar Council issued an opinion on 26 April in which it is written: In this opinion it will be shown that there is no need to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Poland to introduce such a solution as stated above. Property restrictive measures have been applied in Poland for many years in connection with the fight against terrorism. Similar mechanisms can also be introduced in other cases of threat to world peace and security or security and public order in the Republic of Poland. Then why the change?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u247	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You wanted to put a presumption in the constitution. Hands up, who graduated from law school. I'd write down names, 'cause it's worth knowing who should give their diploma. So that's first of all. Secondly, you wanted to create a separate budget, draw part of the budget out of the budget. So that later there would be a lagoon: we can now do anything in this armory. To have a good time there, just like you did with other budgets. Of course, this cannot be supported. Minister Schreiber just left. It is a pity, because I wanted to tell him that I see that he has become a man of special tasks in Law and Justice and has made the first law in history in this Parliament, the first in seven years that will be rejected, because Law and Justice will not get enough majority. I'd even feel a little sorry for Minister Schreiber if he wasn't from the PiS. In this case, however, this is one of those laws, for which it must be made clear that there is no cooperation with PiS, but there is a contribution. So you just have to throw it away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You have led Poland to economic drama, to several percent inflation, to the fact that Poles today do not end up with the end, and you still do not draw conclusions. This project is another jump off a plane without a parachute. That's not enough. You can't establish a common position on the state's finances. You come to the Sejm today with a very serious motion. You want to change the constitutional limit of debt by saying we can't afford arms. And just two weeks ago, Minister Skuz with Minister Patkowski at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finances convinced us that this state of public finances is excellent and we can arm ourselves calmly without changing the constitutional limits. So what's all this really about? Who's lying here? When do you miss the truth? Is it when you say we can't afford arms without changing the constitutional limits (the bell) or when you say the state of public finances is perfect and we can afford arms? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to what we hear from the opposition, I have no doubt that spending on Polish defence should be increased in advance... [[I mean, a jump has to be done.]] ...because otherwise it will be what I observe in Ukraine, these great family tragedies and actually receding by more than a decade of Ukraine through the destruction that Russia has done there. But I wanted to ask about the confiscation of assets by administrative decision, because I believe that Russian assets in Poland should also be confiscated so. The point is, the Ukrainians don't have time, they don't know if they're gonna survive another winter because their whole village was destroyed. This money is needed at the moment, and the Polish society from its own property will not bear the reconstruction of Ukraine. But will a judicial path be possible after this confiscation decision to verify these administrative decisions? Thank you. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u252	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, Polish Socialist Party Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the value of the Russian oligarch's frozen assets so far, and what is the value of frozen assets? Please specify exactly when, to whom and what assets were frozen. Other countries don't make it a secret, the Moravian government doesn't know why they're doing it. For example, only until the end of March this year. Switzerland froze the assets of the Russian oligarchs worth 6 billion francs, the Netherlands - worth 400 million euros, the German banks - over 95 million euros, the Finns stopped 21 yachts. The Polish government does not want to give any details. I demand them on behalf of all Poles. What have you done so far? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In order to discuss this bill, one must be aware of the situational context. I mean, we're talking about a constitutional change, about a leaping, massive increase in defence resources. We're not talking about peacetime, we're talking about prosperity, we're talking about wartime. The war, which probably could have been in Poland, and thanks to the defenders of Ukraine, the heroism of Ukrainian soldiers did not happen. Ukraine gave us a chance in this way. This opportunity can last a year, two, three years, five years. Everything so de facto depends on what's born in Putin's sick head. Therefore, I ask you, Members of the opposition, that Poland's security be avoided... So that your specialty, party bell is not higher than the security interests of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Don't let it be yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! It is in what interest, because probably not the defence of the state, Misiewicz in the Polish Armed Group was earning, as reported by the media, 50,000. monthly in 2017? That, I understand, was the interest of the state, and that was state security, right? Ladies and gentlemen! You want to change the constitution with us, and you're surprised we don't want to change it. You broke the art. 7, Art. 10, Art. 187, Art. 190 of this existing constitution. [[Applause]] So don't be surprised, answer your own question. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] With a criminal and a criminal dictation, would you change the Penal Code? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska just asked what you did. 2 April 1997 The Left, together with other groups, adopted the constitution, the most important document, the basic law. I've had the honor of being among those... Today we say no, because the group that proposes to amend this constitution is breaking it. We say no, because the group that rules today is systematically skipping the state budget and spending thousands outside the state budget. Last year, 260 billion, this year, as the media write, 350 billion. This is confirmed by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, so the Constitutional Authority. Minister! I would therefore like to ask: What is the project related to what you said? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want to lead from 53.8 to 120 debts as in Greece? You gave examples and showed this space. Is that what this is about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To enjoy freedom, you must arm yourself according to the principle: Do you want peace? Get ready for the war. Europe is looking at the war in Ukraine, and Poland has been helping, and it has been since the beginning of Russia's aggression. Poles and prime ministers with the government passed the exam, but it is now necessary to quickly confiscate those who support the aggressor of war. It is regrettable to say that in 2021 Europe does not recognise the risks and is not prudent in deciding to cut off those responsible for genocide. It is also sad to say, after more than 70 years, that people have prepared this fate for people. Evil prevails when good people do nothing, so I appeal over divisions: let us accept the proceded changes in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland for the security of us and Europe. And the exhibit of the Bundestag in the Sejm I admonish: let us cease the activity against Poland, because here is Poland and Poland's right state. [[Right, not Russian pride.]] [[Don't comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u262	Whew... Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a revision of the basic law, which in a formal sense is absolutely unnecessary. The whole thing is a political spectacle by the government, and it's dangerous because the rules in the project are imprecise. The abolition of the limit on defence expenditure does not require changes to the Constitution as the definition of debt is included in the Act. Reality has shown that you are evading the constitution by hiding real debt in various kinds of funds. You don't need a constitution for that. In turn the confiscation of property can also be carried out by an ordinary legal act and you know it. The Civic Coalition submitted a draft amendment to the Civil Code, which gives the possibility to take over property without the need to change the constitution. So why (the bell) if you care so much to settle this issue, you will not introduce this project to the session of the Sejm, but lies in the freezer? So don't be so nervous, because you're doing a very bad thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. And I'm saying goodbye to you, and I'm giving you the lead of Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was never in favour of total opposition, but the constitution is an exception here. On the basis of all laws connected on the one hand with the pandemic, with the Polish Ład, on the basis of laws destroying the Polish justice system, this authority must not be allowed to change even a comma in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The constitution of a democratic state must not be built on the presumption that a vending machine becomes a law, and that is the provision in this law. Today we must reject this to protect you, because you will not rule until the end of the world and one day longer, because today according to this record you can presume that you have exceeded the debt that is guaranteed by the constitution, through the purchases of Abrams tanks, Patriot rocket batteries and F-35 planes. And we're the kind of opposition that's gonna protect you today. Finally, if I could, Mrs. Marshal, from this place - because we are from one district - put on the hands of Minister Schreiber very cordial birthday hugs, I would do so. Happy birthday, Minister. [[Bravo! Nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u266	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u267	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the biggest mystery of faith, where money comes from in the budget, because it's obvious that the United Right to sharks business doesn't belong. The answer is trivial. They're indebted to us, and they're just pretending to be in charge, because governance is about choosing priorities, and that's worse for them. You want to arm yourselves? Okay, then give up other expenses, such as the CPK for 35 billion PLN. But why quit if you can change the constitution and that's it? - think of those economic eagles. The tragedy is that money for defence beyond parliamentary control and outside the budget spent by such excellent managers as Misiewicz and Macierewicz would be in terrible condition and we know from experience how their military management ended. Therefore, I will humbly ask: Why increase the expenditure on arms (the bell), since we already have the king and queen of Poland, and also mobile altars on the equipment of our army? Maybe instead of changing the constitution, all you need is more faith. [[Applause]] [[Go and sin no more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am sometimes shocked by the speeches of some Members. You're having fun, ladies and gentlemen, really very dangerous. You're playing with our security issues, and that's when there's a war going on outside our eastern border. This isn't a game. Changing the constitution is always something special, something that doesn't happen often. At the same time, the constitution should not be a dead legal act, we must change it if the interests of our homeland so require. Unfortunately, today, due to the war caused by Russia, we need to adapt its records to the new situation and this is what today's changes are for. It is good that Poland once again shows other countries the path that we should follow together. The pressure on Russia must be maintained. I ask that we, as a parliament, maintain this pressure. It is in the interest of the Polish state, it is in the interest of our homeland and it is in the interest of our future security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u270	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding this indication of the road I would like to ask: Do Hungarians already know whether Viktor Orbán, your friend, realizes that the Hungarian state treasure can own our part of the Lotus just for a moment? Because when we read into the records you're proposing, we see that basically this property will be confiscated tomorrow after the sale, because on the Hungarian side and on Orbán's own side we are obviously dealing with the promotion of armed assault. It doesn't add up, and at the same time you're ignoring the fact that art. 46 of the Constitution provides for the issue of the loss of things and defines when it may occur. You have to change (the bell) the laws, not the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition spit in the face of the Polish people many times, but today you spit in the face of Ukrainians. The vote - you have announced that it will take place in one way, not another, that you will vote against the draft of this Constitutional Amendment Act - is proof of what kind of opposition you are, but what kind of people you are. If you don't see everything that's going on in Ukraine, if you don't see how powerful we are at risk... [[We see what's going on in the budget.]] ...and you can say such shameful words as you said, Mr. Kropiwnicki, that the constitution is a lie, that building hospitals in the Legionów is a terrible thing... This is, to be honest, something that can really only be born in your heads. But it's dangerous, you have to fight it, because you can't treat it politically anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember one thing: we must really do our job. Law and Justice must do their job to save their homeland to defend it (the bell) because, as it turns out, no one else will do it for us. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u274	Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u275	Dear Marshal! High Seym! There is in fact no need to amend the Constitution as to what this submission is about. In fact, we are dealing with a mechanism that operates in the Polish legal order. The point is that it is enough to make confiscations, which must then be the final judgment of the court deemed to be a misdemeanor, without compensation. Only here do we get to the point of this problem, why you are presenting this project at all. The only thing you have frozen is not the assets of the Russian oligarchs, but the Polish justice system, and with what we have today in the Polish justice system, the increase in the length of proceedings would have to wait 7.1 months for such a final judgment. That's why you paralyzed, you froze the courts, which is why you're making such a submission, so there's no way to support this (Bingle) project. Moreover, with regard to the proposal to increase the constitutional debt limit, this is absolutely unacceptable. It's like borrowing money from a gambler. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Russia's aggression in Ukraine united Poles, united Europeans. However - exactly, but - not all. This point of view depends a little on the seat point. Countries that were not mentioned, for example, by sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, they are less realistic about the threat posed by the Russian Federation. The European Union's activities in this area are also very divided. Practically, Minister, I think the concept of a Eurocrime could be used within the European Union has fallen (the bell). If so, please confirm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u278	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary bill amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a scandalous attempt to use war to achieve your political goals. This is really another political gold for you. Three months have passed since Russia invaded Ukraine. You're late for helping Ukrainians and Ukrainians. You're too late to confiscate Russian oligarch assets. Why are you selling lotus to Hungarians instead of imposing an embargo on Russian oil? It's an extreme disgrace. Now you're saying you need to change the constitution so you can confiscate the assets of the Russian supporters. But that's a lie. According to Art. 46 Constitutions are admissible on the basis of a final judgment of the court. [[Years of action.]] Except you guys don't like free courts. You're going to push in a mechanism that will allow undefined authorities to confiscate property on an indefinite basis. Is this supposed to be another gateway to media censorship? Come to your senses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start following the Constitution, and then we can talk about whether or not something needs to be corrected. Or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state budget isn't made of rubber. The basics of economics tell us that spending needs to be controlled, especially debts. And what does Law and Justice do? Instead of controlling, you turn off the last fuses of the Polish state. You want to change the constitution so that there is no control over government spending anymore, so that Poland's debt, which today amounts to almost PLN 1.5 trillion - a record sum, for 7 years of the PiS government increased by 1/3 - could grow further, without our knowledge and without our control. But the basics of economics also tell us that if the borrower is unable to repay the debt, he will go bankrupt. This was the fate of Greece, Sri Lanka, but also Poland, ladies and gentlemen, in 1981, if you remember. I don't want my country bankrupt. I'm not gonna let him ruin it. Therefore, to such a change of the Polish constitution neither in the Green Party nor in the Civic Coalition (The Bell) will never be consented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u282	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u283	The austerity rule, which is introduced in the Constitution, is also transferred to the local government. The relevant provision in the Public Finance Act was until recently, 10 years ago, that 60% the government's budgetary revenue is the maximum level of debt. This has been changed - with the participation of the state, the majority of the country - because this rule has been transferred to the formula of the individual debt ratio of the local government unit. Why? Because local governments could not invest and say - and this country has taken into account everyone - that this rule needs to be changed so that local governments could invest because there were such needs. And here we have a particular need to invest in the defence of the state and this rule should also take into account this need. As in local governments, this rule has been taken into account, both here and here, with this great challenge of the state in terms of defence (The Bell) should be taken into account. State review your views.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I always say that hate for PiS shouldn't be greater than common sense. Unfortunately, we had an example today that it was as we heard here. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not to refuse and not to accept our idea. The problem is the way and the form in which it was done here. It's all written down, you can see what I'm talking about. Blinding doesn't even allow you to work on these projects. And it's dramatic, and it's sad. Of course, under the law, you can order a misdemeanor or expropriation, which is under the supervision of the court or confiscation, which is the decision of the court. But time - it will take years. That's why we want to change it. And the fact that you refuse to cooperate in this case casts a powerful, terrible shadow on you. 60% Poles in the survey said - amazing - that they agree to weaken the defence, to transfer equipment of our army for Ukraine even at the expense of the deterioration of defence. It means that society understands drama more than the political elites of our country. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During this debate, we refer to common sense, to peasant sense, to love for our homeland. And very well, because I think that this situation we're in, each aspect should undoubtedly touch. Common sense is today written to anyone who makes even a short-term analysis of the situation not only of Poland but also of the whole of Europe. We are looking at what unfortunately happened, the beastly Russians in Ukraine. But also, ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that the behaviour of our partners, even in NATO, in western Europe - who have some kind of detention, starting with problems with the transfer of helmets, through all kinds of weapons, and ending with tanks - requires us to think about one thing. We must - whether we want or not (the bell) - raise in a meaningful way the quality of our weapons, the quality of our training... [[Hurry up.]] ...and in a very fast way. And we need this, ladies and gentlemen, to protect our homeland. I strongly encourage this and encourage reflection as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u288	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One famous, great NATO commander said: security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. It is in a very quick way that shows how important an issue we are dealing with. During the work on the Homeland Defense Act, there was such a level of discussion that there were arguments, there were applications rejected, accepted, but it was all in the interest of improving this law, so that this law would be even better. And I was. I was happy. And now? Minister, I'm just wondering if they're talking like that here today, it's a matter of being told (the bell), or a question of what's far worse, that they just don't understand... [[The gravity of the situation.]] ...that existential problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u290	That was the last vote... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Do not judge others after yourself, Major of the People's Polish Army.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Kalet, I ask you to remain calm. [[I'm worried about the guy.]] Take care of yourself. Please take the floor of the rapporteur, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I concluded my speech with the words of Edmund Burke, that it is enough to triumph evil enough for good people to do nothing, and then you went out to this pulpit and in every possible way - I am talking about the left side of the room - you proved why it is good to do nothing. You justified in every possible way that the Polish state could not gain additional arguments in this fight, which, yes, is going on. This is, I have to say, sad that in so many speeches, you were rather trying to justify Putin's actions in different ways instead of supporting this initiative. And what is most sad is what Mr Cymanski said, that you are not only against this idea, but also you do not even want to talk about it... [[Exactly. Tragedy.]] ...you don't even want to discuss it. You said you were going to reject this project at first reading, which means you don't even want to discuss it. [[This is a political error.]] But it's not just that. You don't want to, you didn't make any alternative ideas, because maybe this one's imperfect. That's not an idea. [[Don't ruin the Polish state.]] I move on to the specific statements made by specific Members. Mr Kropiwnicki: stupid needs, spending money. I don't know what this stupid need is. Is it money... [[The benches of independence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u292	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u293	But I listened to you with peace and patience. Are these funds for pensioners, or are they for 500+ children? Or maybe those stupid needs. Is this a matter of extra army spending? Or is this stupid need the Central Communication Port? etc., etc. [[Help for business criticizes.]] Yeah, it's worth it. Next, you spend billions with a light hand. Exactly, which is, I understand, criticism and attack for the fact that in the course of the pandemic, two hundred and a dozen billion people were sent to help entrepreneurs. [[With your support.]] [[Have you accounted for the ventilators?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is that really the reason for any government to be ashamed of this, of the majority of the parliamentary people who supported these solutions? [[Did you settle the masks?]] Because we were clear then, ladies and gentlemen... You supported it, especially when you thought the microphones didn't collect it. [[And they said it wasn't enough.]] At the time, we said one thing. There is one basic, fundamental goal. We want to prevent unemployment in Poland from going up. What's the target or not? I think you'll admit that you do, yes. The Member was still gracious to say that European legislation would be faster, as probably aid for refugees who came to Poland was faster from the European Union than from the state budget. Mr Kulasek: the constitution does not change with the enemies of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, a statement that closes any discussion. What is most frightening is that even at such a difficult time, in a situation of war beyond our borders, you put such a thesis. A simple change in the bill is enough. What is enough to change the law simply? You know very well that it is not possible to immediately confiscate these assets in a simple change in the bill. [[Years. Procedure.]] Of course. Besides, I tried to tell you about it in my speech. I'm not gonna say it again. The questions are still being asked - Senyszyn asked, Mr Kulasek also asked - how many assets of Russian operators and oligarchs were frozen. I'll try to answer the question more or less. These are not fully accurate data, but I answer in my best faith. On the basis of EU sanctions - about 240 million, and on the basis of Polish sanctions - at least 10 times more. Mr Beida quoted us from the PSL programme. It's really great. Of course, as with a few other voices in this discussion, which is also symptomatic, the government was blamed for inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you do. We've talked about this. Of course the government of law and justice is responsible for inflation all over the world, of course everyone understands that. [[Especially in Poland.]] This is a construction in which the Republic of Poland... [[But who runs the state's financial policy?]] ...plays such a role as at least the Roman Empire in the 1st century after Christ. Then that could be a valid statement. Mr Winnicki to the company with his colleagues: money jumping, spending on the Prime Minister's firm. I don't know. The signatures under this bill really are a list of disgraces. Indeed, if he speaks these words in the interests of Russia, we could still understand such a statement, but if the Polish Member says so, I will honestly admit that I am unable to understand how such words can be said. [[There's a lot you don't understand.]] Yeah, that's right. If I'm listening to you, there's a lot I don't understand, you're right. Mr Suchoń: money cannot be spent. Yes, Italy has fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course Italy has problems with public debt, but I would very much like to wish such security in Poland as the amazing assets collected by Italy. The statement that this is a country that has fallen, can really only be considered within the limits of comedy. Thank you, Mr Sachayka, for this declaration of discussion, for the declaration of discussion. Mrs Senyszyn: I have already spoken about assets that have been frozen, but if they are frozen, it does not mean that they have been confiscated. Once again, I stress this and appeal to my speech in which I told you why this cannot be done. Mr Kwiatkowski said that the government made money as a result of Putinflation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly incredibly sad that you can say such words. The government is making money on inflation, the government is in fact enjoying... [[She's fattening.]] ...from inflation, from the fact that she hits Poles. The government's making that kind of money, and it's giving up its own income. Anti-inflationary shield, giving up energy taxes, gas taxes, heat taxes, food products, reducing taxes for Poles is, as I understand it, the effect of earning government. It's probably also the idea for the government to make money out of inflation. If you are from parties, from groups, from political parties, which in times of high inflation, in times of major crises did not offer citizens any help, then you can actually look at it that way. Mrs Leszczyn was also attacking the economic situation. Of course, the government, the Prime Minister and the majority are responsible for inflation. The continuation of Putin's absolution. [[You gave it to the Poles.]] Mr Tomaszewski, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, so that there would be no doubt, asked if we wanted to make public debt increase from 53.8% 120%. Of course not, of course we don't want to, and no one has the idea of giving - God forbid - 70% GDP for State defence operations, because that would mean we're at war. I guess that's the only way we could talk about it. Mr Szopiński said that there could be no agreement to change the constitution. Mr President, I would just like to remind the High House that the amendments to the Constitution have already taken place, that the Constitution has been amended. [[There have been cases. Rarely, but they were.]] Let me remind you that the amendment concerned extradition. It was under the rule of the Civic Platform, and if memory serves me, then Law and Justice supported it in connection with the article. 99, which referred to whether people with convictions could run for Sejm. This shows the difference, but also the scale, because with all due respect, but even if it weren't, it would be much less unfortunate than blocking the possibility of confiscating the assets of the aggressor-related entities. Of course, thank you for this private subject and your wishes. Finally, Mr Dziambor said that he felt sorry for my failure because it turned out that the High House would reject this proposal. Well, I don't think it's supposed to be a failure. I do not agree that if there is no majority in this House 3/5 votes to support this project will be my failure. Unfortunately, it will be the failure of all those who voted against this project. Thank you very much. [[And all of us. Polish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u295	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This correction is necessary because the Minister apparently did not exactly listen to the debate or understand what we were talking about. During the presentation of the project, he referred, for example, to Greece and Italy, i.e. countries which, because of their high debt to GDP, either fell, like Greece, or had very serious problems, such as Italy. And please don't mislead the High House because that's exactly what I said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And just so you know, in 15 years, Greek debt has increased by 25%. GDP to 110% GDP. That's exactly the way you want to go and roll over our country. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u296	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting Mr Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u297	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! My name came up. It seems the Minister didn't understand, or maybe I wasn't specific. This is, of course, an additional revenue resulting from inflation. Anyone who knows the mechanism for creating and creating VAT knows that these revenues are increasing. This year, because inflation will be extremely high - indeed, Minister, the government bears some responsibility for this inflation - necessarily revenues will be higher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u298	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and some other laws (print No 2290). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present another amendment to the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to thank you for your work on this law so far, because many of the amendments behind us were also due to a situation which is very dynamic in connection with Russia's aggression on Ukraine, in connection with this emergency aid, which so far was needed by all those who fled the war to Poland. Until now, these amendments have been made very efficiently by Parliament. I would like to thank you very much for that. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Szczepański from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, because these amendments have always been carried out during one meeting. This is a special amendment because these are the first solutions of a systemic nature. In our view, we are already leaving this first stage, the stage of emergency aid, humanitarian aid. We're moving on to the system aid phase. So far, in this first stage, over 950 thousand have benefited from assistance at reception points, which were created jointly by voivodships and local governments. war refugees from Ukraine. The organized, collective accommodation of this kind benefited from 357 thousand. refugees. We have over 1,100 thousand in the PESEL database. persons who are registered as war refugees from Ukraine. And time, ladies and gentlemen, to move on to those solutions that will allow those who want to stay in Poland for longer, how best they have adapted in Poland and can live here normally. The point is that it is not necessary to provide this assistance, such ad hoc state aid, to those who will remain in Poland. Today we have such a trend on the Polish border that since 10 May there are more trips from Poland than arrivals to Poland. We estimate, the Border Guard estimates that 1/3, 1/4 people who leave Poland, which is today from 20 to 30 thousand. people, these are refugees who are returning home. You can say that several thousand people a day leave Poland, such people who came here as refugees of war from Ukraine. However, many people are still planning to stay in Poland, and measures are needed to ensure that the children who have come here can be taken care of and that those who wish to take up a job and live normally can take these measures. This is why a governmental and self-government team was established, which adopted the first solutions within the joint government and local government committees. This project is also a consequence of the work of this team. I would also like to thank all those who are involved in these activities, above all the local government side. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important issue, which this amendment covers, is the care of children under the age of 5. We expand the possibilities of creating so-called. children's clubs for children from Ukraine. We want these children to be able to take care of so that their parents can take a job in Poland. And this is a much cheaper solution, much more effective than the solution in which all these children would go to Polish kindergartens. As far as the labour market is concerned, here a very important issue is related to training in Polish. This law clarifies labour law rules and provides for solutions that will allow these trainings to be organised also by labour offices on a much broader scale and much more effectively. It is also a matter of simplifying the procedures of the Construction Law. Before the war many Poles were waiting for communal apartments. Since our guests from Ukraine have arrived, these queues will extend significantly. We are therefore convinced that simplifying the building law procedures for self-governments for 2 years so that they can use the deserts to make it easier to adapt the deserts, to use them for housing purposes, is extremely important. It is also extremely important in our view that we improve the regulation allowing us to eliminate cases of applying for the benefits of people who have left Poland. When providing all kinds of assistance we must remember that the most important thing is the interest of Poland and Poles, so sealing the system of payment of benefits is also an extremely important element of this law. At the last meeting, when we amended the Ukrainian law, we adopted such solutions that benefits of 40 PLN for Poles can be paid when a refugee from Ukraine has a PESEL number. Since then, many have reported that they lacked a transitional period as regards the payment of these benefits. And we have this 14-day period in the case of people who, until 29 April, hosted Ukrainians in their homes, not solved this problem of payout, did not submit a request, do not have a PESEL number of these people... We also solve this problem with these regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! This law also provides for a number of provisions to clarify procedures. I think in the process, too. today's discussion will be able to respond to the various questions that will arise on the occasion of this revision. As I said, the most important thing for us today is to create opportunities for people from Ukraine who are fleeing the war to be system solutions for their stay in Poland. This is the first package of this type of solutions. I am ready on behalf of the government to discuss and adopt various ideas in order to adopt further solutions in subsequent amendments. This is a new situation in Poland and certainly further amendments to this law will also be needed. But as I say, the most important thing for us is the interest of Poland and Poles. The safety brakes related to the sealing of the benefit payment system that this law provides for are equally important. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u300	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Marta Kubiak, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u301	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws. There's still a war going on outside our eastern border. The Russians destroy everything: residential areas, kindergartens, schools, hospitals. They also fire on humanitarian corridors that are being evacuated by women, children, orphans and persons with reduced mobility. It is therefore necessary to clarify and supplement the provisions of the Law of 12 March 2022 on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. The bill aims to ensure an adequate standard of protection for Ukrainian citizens associated with their work in Poland. It also introduces solutions for stable provision by local authorities of care for the youngest children of refugees, in particular when their parents are working. The provisions of the Act also clarify the regulations allowing for the elimination of applications for and collection of benefits by Ukrainian citizens who have left Poland. The changes will also address issues related to the learning of Polish language. District labour offices will be able to organize trainings in Polish for foreigners. In addition, the voivodships will have access to the register of Ukrainian citizens issued with the PESEL number. The project also provides for simplification of procedures related to the conversion, renovation or modification of the use of buildings or parts thereof held by local government units and intended for residential purposes. The provisions of the Act extend the powers of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency through the possibility of accepting in the form of donations the storage, issue and export of medicinal products to Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to the fact that amendments to the Act are necessary and that the procedure for entering into force of the proposed regulation is undoubtedly urgent. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u302	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again, the Sejm is under discussion by amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory. This is not unusual for us because we knew from the very beginning that this law would be practically revised non-stop, because the situation is dynamic and legislation needs to be adapted to the needs. The changes you're proposing would be divided into three groups. The first is the technical changes resulting from the experience gained from individual institutions dealing with Ukrainian citizens. The second group consists of changes that allow for the reorganisation, technical, human and financial reinforcement of a number of institutions that provide this assistance and have much greater tasks and thus expenditure, e.g. ZUS. The third group of changes are changes that take account of the new realities, namely what the Minister was talking about, and thus the increasing amount of return to Ukraine, and the increasing movement towards one and the other of the same citizens, the movement of Ukrainians to the countries of the European Union, and without a doubt the need to seal, limit the possibility of unjustified payments or unwarranted collection of benefits, which may also lead to temptation among Ukrainian citizens, and this will reduce the state budget. It should also be taken into account that over time there are two groups of Ukrainians who came to Poland after 24 February. The first group is people who want to return to their homes as soon as possible, often come back and do not bind their future to Poland, even often they do not apply for a PESEL number. There is also a second group that wants to stay in Poland regardless of the situation and who wants to become independent and integrate with Polish society as soon as possible. Indeed, Minister, we need today to build a strategy not only for this group, which we need to help immediately, but also for a long-term strategy to enable the integration of Ukrainian citizens in Poland, with particular attention to those Ukrainian citizens, which we particularly care about from the point of view of the interest of the state, e.g. on health workers, doctors, nurses, etc. I will not discuss here a whole series of changes that you are proposing. We'll talk about it at committee meetings. I would like to say, however, to express my surprise that you are trying to introduce further prerogatives in this amendment or further powers to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency for the creation of coal reserves. I do not really understand what the Ukrainians' aid law has to do with the creation of reserves and energy security. While it is still understandable that the resources for the creation of these reserves would come from the Intervention Backup Fund, I do not understand why they should also come from the government's local government fund. I was in Podlaskie Voivodeship recently. There various types of service, building this Chinese wall, completely run over local roads in many border districts. After all, these reserves must be addressed there, not to strategic reserve agencies. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: I will.]] So that's what surprises us, and we're gonna ask that at the committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, the Civic Coalition Club will actively participate in the work on this bill. Minister: It is not wise to speak wisely, but the greatest to do wisely. You may also eventually start to take into account the amendments that the opposition will propose for the benefit of both your government and the citizens of the Republic of Poland. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: If they are wise, they will.]] [[You've proven that post-factum you've established that they're wise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Club, I have the honour to present our position on the Act amending the Law on Assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country and certain other laws. My previous speakers said it was another amendment, but we are aware that life brings different solutions, different circumstances every day, and we also need new solutions. As the Minister said, some of these people today would like to settle in Poland and we need to create conditions for them to want to stay here. We are pleased this time, Minister, that, however, the committee and the Sejm will have a dozen days to work on this law, because previously at the same meeting we had first, second and third readings, so these works were limited in time. Today, however, we will be able to work on this longer. Since the outbreak of the war, as you mentioned, more than 3.5 million Ukrainian citizens have entered Poland. Some of them returned to Ukraine, some remained, and some moved. We do not know the number of Ukrainians who came to us from other countries, i.e. through Hungary, Slovakia. This number should be reflected in the number of PESEL numbers, but as we know, the number of PESEL numbers released at the level of 1,000 100 is not the number of all people who came forward after PESEL. We are also aware that there was a need for a change that you are pointing to, but I hope that no one from the European Union has emerged after the PESEL number has been given, because this provision states that we exclude people who are spouses of Ukrainian citizens who have crossed the border with them, are citizens of another European Union country. Therefore, we write in this law that they will simply not have such opportunities. As I understand it, it was also necessary. Not only is justification enough for people arriving in Poland through another country... However, we have to write this down legally, because the justification that we made was probably not enough for the voivods. It is certainly a good solution to help Polish citizens who have accepted Ukrainians who have not gone after PESEL. As we can see, 3.5 million entered, 1.1 The million took PESEL. We accepted at least 2 million of them and those Ukrainians who did not have PESEL had no funding. So this is an exit to those who did not have PESEL and who lived with Poles. Today we will have the opportunity to provide them with financial assistance. It is certainly a good solution to support Ukrainians in the field of medical professions. These people are trained in Polish by county and voivodship labour offices. It is also about learning Polish in schools, which will allow people of Ukrainian origin, citizens of Ukraine to integrate with us. The question arises as to whether this change was needed, if so, for which local authorities. We extend by 10 months, or actually by a year, the possibility of holding competitions in schools where they did not take place. Surely the advantage is also the ability to adapt the rooms to residential purposes if they do not meet the housing conditions today, but meet all the requirements not to cause a construction disaster there. The only question is why the start date of the investment, July 2024, when these facilities are needed today, especially since in many localities, as we hear, holiday resorts begin to conclude contracts due to the fact that the season is coming up and they simply want to welcome tourists. The issue that my previous speaker was talking about is the question of increasing competence for the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. First of all, this agency will be able to accept donations. Secondly, it will be possible to purchase, but also to collect medical resources or pharmacological agents and then hand them over to Ukraine. This is certainly a plus, but the fundamental question arises as to how much money is to be transferred from the local government fund, the road fund. I hear that's the amount. at least PLN 1.5 billion that this is supposed to be an accident, but in this act it is stated that the Prime Minister's decision will be transferred there. The question is whether the transfer of these funds will not result in a reduced scope of tasks and whether these resources will return. Because the Minister said in the cockroaches that there might be an autocorrection, but I see that it did not affect the first reading, so I understand that the amendment will be tabled during the committee's work that these funds will return. I wouldn't want it to happen that we're taking 1-2 billion out of the road fund today, and then we just don't have that money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: They will return.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we will be working on the committee. My club is expressing the will to work, because we believe that these solutions are needed, and we want this law to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u306	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Biernacki, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u307	Thank you again, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats and Conservatives supports the government project, declares that it will support and work on it at the committee meeting. We have a number of comments to make to it, which we will already be presenting during our work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I'm glad we have a little more time than usual to work on this bill. We expected this amendment to take place. I would also like to draw attention to some other problems that arise in the case of Russia and refugees who appeared in Poland as a result of this aggression. The first point is to check in on pedestrians at border crossing points. From February 25th this year. The decision of the commander of the Main Border Guard of the Republic of Poland is carried out checks of travellers in pedestrian traffic at all road border crossings towards Ukraine to Poland. The decision was based on humanitarian considerations resulting from Russia's ongoing aggression against Ukraine. For a few weeks we have noticed a constant tendency towards the return of Ukrainians, among others. from Poland to their homeland. This trend is increasing - although we sometimes explain to our friends that there is still war, the Ukrainians want to come back, and we talked about it. In the direction from Poland to Ukraine there is a formal possibility of border checks in pedestrian traffic only at the transition in Medyce. This brings great hardships. The reason for this situation is that many Ukrainian families came after the start of the war to our country by all possible means, often using a ride by family or friends to the nearest border crossing with Poland, which already crossed those people on foot. As I mentioned, they were already open at that time to border checks in pedestrian traffic. So it seems obvious that now, when the number of people returning to Ukraine exceeds the number of Ukrainians leaving their country - hopefully, let's see optimisticly that this number will increase for this conflict to end - it is necessary to create the possibility of border checks in the direction of pedestrians from Poland to Ukraine. I would also like to draw attention to two more aspects, to matters, as I say, humanitarian. Ukrainians, on the basis of this Law of 12 March, had certain powers, of course, after fulfilling the criteria set out in the Act, i.e. educational services, so-called. 500+. The payment of these benefits should take place after an application has been submitted in the ZUS department. In many cases, Ukrainians who applied for the payment of the benefit in March have still not received these funds. It should be noted that these are often the only funds they have in Poland. I'm talking about the interventions, the cases I've heard. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! February 24th this year in Poland, in many cities the so-called. support points based on the activities of local self-governments, volunteers, and mainly on the enormous empathy of Poles. The Polish community provided support centres with numerous gifts, including food, clothing, and cleaning products. However, over time, the current situation, including the rising price of virtually all goods on the market as a result of inflation, and, which is also very important, natural so-called. the regression of the incentive to provide assistance has caused the support points to become empty. Not because of the lack of interest of Ukrainian citizens themselves, but because of the lack of first-needed articles, mainly food, by existing donors. The problem is not only about larger cities, it is common. With me, too, in this village in Kashubach, where I live, where gifts are gathered, the priest had to ask for people to cheer up and bring them. Therefore, in order to maintain this perfectly functioning system of humanitarian support for refugees from Ukraine during the first 2 months of the war, it seems necessary to support it financially through state agendas, e.g. by companies of the State Treasury, which have recently boasted of very large profits, huge profits. Shouldn't they allocate this part of the profits to help the Ukrainians? I have touched on these issues because, your Marshal, Minister, I think it is worth not only having a debate at one of the next meetings about what is happening in connection with Russia's aggression against Ukraine (the bell), not only the debate on the occasion of the bill, on subsequent amendments, but also a broader, broader discussion on this subject, so that this situation is clear to all. Because we still have to explain that the refugees from Ukraine in 96% are women and children, because this information has not yet reached all citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u309	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about amending the specialty about helping the Ukrainians. Of course, the problem of putting it logically into parts is due to the aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine, the migration problem with refugees, with their number. Putin, of course, is responsible - and Putin is a criminal. This is what I emphasize at this moment especially for the Polish propagandists to write down, because the Confederation is a pro-Polish force, it is a force that the Polish state is taking over. This should also apply to the whole political class. No emotion, negative or positive, should obscure this fact: the Polish right state, and it is the safety of Poles, the welfare of Poles, the health of Poles. Roman Dmowski, the statesman, once said that some people hate Russia more than they love Poland. The question is, can't you paraphrase it today, saying that some people love Ukraine more than Poland. Some of us are bound to fall into that trap by now. The amendment concerns problems that are today. Administration doubles and triples, also to serve it. On the other hand, my basic charge is that this is focusing on what is today. The question is, are we prepared for black scripts? This war has already shown many times that it slips away from grades, it slips away from analysts' forecasts, experts surprises. The question of the black script, when these refugees could come back many millions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u311	A logical proposal will be to apply for rejection of this law, another of the endless Ukrainian+ series, rejection at first reading. That's a formal conclusion I'm making, Marshal. You announced that already 3.5 million widows and orphans of war entered the borders of the Republic of Poland, but that, as one of his colleagues rightly pointed out, only the Ukrainian border section. We have no control over this situation at other borders. You've already spent a million PESELs. We are still comforted that they will come back, but by supporting family reunification, we cannot rule out that some fathers, husbands, lovers will seek happiness here with their children and their companions of life. Meanwhile, in the United States, Ambassador Magierowski said (Dzwonek) that he expects 2 million to settle in Poland. And that would be the first of my questions to the Minister: Do you consider these estimates to be hit? Does Ambassador Magierowski bet well?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u312	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The project did not come in late at night and there will be a process at an express rate - and this is a good sign. Finally, it will be time to take a calm look at the proposed changes in the so-called. Specialist. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 has always taken an active part in the work on the bill, on subsequent amendments and we assure you that this will continue. Today we welcome many of the necessary provisions. The introduction of transitional provisions allowing 40+ aid applications for refugees who do not have PESEL numbers should be considered as a very good solution. In this way, the obvious oversight which the applicants and the Sejm committed during the previous amendment will be corrected. This will prevent the abuse of many people with a dove's heart who have given or continue to do so. It also welcomes the introduction into the law of regulations facilitating the harmonisation of actions with the European Union by granting the Chief Border Guard Officer and the President of the Office for Foreigners the function of a national contact point within the meaning of the European Temporary Protection Directive. Good solutions also apply to employment conditions or access to public education. And the right idea is to initiate Polish language curricula for representatives of medical professions from Ukraine, as well as for unemployed and job seekers. However, there are also a number of issues which have not been raised in the amendment or are not sufficiently noted. As I have already said, we will insist on these matters, because we see the need for more detailed regulation of the acquisition of rights to legal residence and social benefits for Ukrainian citizens, who for a short time, for example. in order to do life's work, they go home and then they come back to us. There are still many inaccuracies in interpreting these situations. Minister! The war is on. In less than a month, the date by which the host refugees may receive State aid will pass. Is a new system solution already being developed today? And, by the way, one more question: What is the issue of European funds allocated to Poland for helping refugees? On the government side there were very different, sometimes conflicting voices as to whether the request for such assistance had actually been submitted. What do you mean? Or are his fates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u314	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party, I welcome the amendment of the Law of 12 March 2022 on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that country. We were forced to proceed over this law in a great hurry, and it is obvious that it needs to be amended. Of course, the changes proposed in the project do not exhaust everything, and this is probably impossible, and that is why we will be in favour of continuing to work on this law in committees, because some of the solutions are actually very good here. Special attention should be paid to the fact that doctors and nurses will be able to use additional language courses to learn. At the moment there is actually a very big problem in communicating, and as we know, in Poland we have a shortage of both doctors and nurses. We also support different provisions, but we will also submit our proposals for further improvement of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u316	Thank you very much, Member. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few things to start with. Member of the Civic Platform was gracious to say that in Poland something like a Chinese wall is being created. No, it's a Polish wall. The Chinese wall was built to protect itself from the people of the Great Step, and we seem to be doing the same thing. So that irony, sir, is a little out of place. You also spoke to the Minister about how to speak, how to use wise statements. Sometimes it seems to me, Mr President, that in order to speak wisely, perhaps in your case we should remain silent. Another question, ladies and gentlemen. We have just discussed changes to the Constitution. This is today's bill, kind of like the one we talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been running around with the inscription "City." Today, when necessary, even Mr Grabarczyk does not wear this label anymore, and today (the bell) would be useful for you to really know what the constitution is and how much it needs to be respected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u319	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this law, you are also transferring funds to the government's material reserves agency. What you're talking about is that these funds, these 3 billion zlotys, are going to be used to buy coal. I'd like to ask you, who's this coal agency gonna buy? Or for whose needs? Will it be for energy or for citizens who can't buy coal today? We all know that Poland will run out of 11 million tons of coal this year. 6 million t will actually be needed for energy, and these 5 million t will be needed for living purposes. The question is, where will this coal go? What will the price of this coal be if today in Polish ports the price of coal from Colombia is 1900 PLN for 1 t? What prices do we have today, at what prices will the government buy (the bell) this coal and for whom? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must commend the government for its great flexibility and pragmaticity. It is a pity that similar pragmaticity did not take place when deciding on the Disciplinary Chamber. Perhaps today we would have much more opportunities to help refugees. But my concern raised another matter, namely the record that was included in this project. In spite of the government's earlier assurances, we find that despite the extremely tense immigration situation before the outbreak of the war and the movement of migrants from the border with Belarus to Ukraine, as the government also informed us, there were uncontrolled border crossings on our border with Ukraine, through which without any control and verification they could cross the borders of our country all who wanted to. I would very much like to ask for a written reply and detailed information on how many of these uncontrolled transitions have been and how long they have been in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u322	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. Mr Grzegorz Braun is preparing. We're gonna have to speed things up a little bit so that the vote is on time. [[We're accelerating.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Will you eliminate those cases in which the Ukrainians have not yet received money, and Poles who have received these Ukrainians have not yet received them? These signals are much from the Podlasie voivodship, which I represent. We help Ukrainians, but it is also worth helping Poles who live in the border area. Are you going to prolong the restrictions there? It's hard to live for people who are 5-6 times controlled by the police. They have to get out of the cars, and the police are looking in their trunks. They're all being treated hard enough. It is also important to help companies that are closed. Hotels and other companies are failing today, and the Ministry of Development and Technology cannot send a correct notification request to the European Commission. The Commission said that the correct proposal was still not received. If you extend the duration of the restrictions (the bell), companies that operate there will die, e.g. hotels or farmhouses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u324	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u325	I'd like to ask you about these deserts where you're changing your standards, which means you're canceling the hygiene and construction requirements to make them available. The Minister lied, made up or made up, and at the press conference he said that according to this law, the voids would be available to both Poles and Ukrainians. Well, here, as the bull stands, they are to be made available for the needs of the Ukrainians, for the purpose of the population of Ukrainian citizens. So explain when you were wrong: when you didn't read your own bill or when you were at a press conference. Second line. Even before the end of March, his Excellency, Ambassador Deszyca, said that he was conducting talks with you about residential construction for the needs of supposed refugees (the bell) or displaced persons from Ukraine. He said it was supposed to be a high-quality apartment. Please answer me in writing, who from the government, you or someone else, has been involved in discussions with the excellency of Ambassador Despyca.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Next will be Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u327	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to know in writing about the Self-Government Road Fund. According to the law, the fund is to be deprived of a large amount. As far as I remember, it's about PLN 1.5 billion. This means that investment in local governments can be limited, which is not intentional. Therefore, please answer in writing the questions: Will this fund stay? Will the funds go back to the fund? What's the deadline? Second question. I hope the Minister will be kind to answer them. What is the scale of the cases in which benefits are collected when it comes to people who have already crossed the Polish border and gone home? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u328	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. Mr Tomasz Nowak is preparing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the art. 8 Law on the reimbursement of the cost of living and living of Ukrainian women and children in our homes. This article concerns all those who crossed borders after 24 February and did not receive a PESEL number. As we know, some stopped for a while and then went to other countries of the European Union or outside the Union. They stayed in Poland for a week, two or three. Our families kept these Ukrainians, these women with children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u330	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, is preparing for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We have a very cruel winter ahead of us, because already the inhabitants of Poland are afraid of what will happen to the ecogroszka, what will happen to sunbathing their apartments. There is a record in this law that says that the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will buy coal from fund money, e.g. from the Intervention Backup Fund or the controversial Self-Government Road Fund. I have a question. Whether, in the context of the eradication of energy poverty, the Agency will transfer this coal to coal warehouses with some own margin or it will be reduced, e.g. 50%, so that people who can't afford to buy eco peas at the moment, and these are the vast majority in Poland, can buy it for 1,000. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another question. Why do we have so many articles in this bill that pay attention to the biogas plant? I understand that this is about the development of a biogas plant, but these issues should be regulated in the Energy Law Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u332	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, PiS, is preparing to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The second amendment of the specialty included the possibility for Ukrainian citizens to be sheltered by budgetary units. These budgetary units may receive funding for the stay of foreigners. I wanted to ask. According to the information... Have these budget units submitted applications to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration regarding funds for the period during which they dealt with Ukrainian citizens? Did the Ministry therefore send them back to the voivodships? Answer the Minister. I would like to ask how many budgetary units have actually submitted such applications. When are these resources coming from the ministry to these units? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Coalition, is preparing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u335	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I get very often information from Ukrainian citizens, just refugees, that not all employers treat them equally with workers, Polish citizens. This is particularly the case in gastronomy, in trade, and even, at least in my area, in poultry slaughterhouses. I have a question: Will the provisions proposed in this law ensure effective enforcement, checks by authorised authorities, such as the State Labour Inspection, and therefore prevent such practices? The point is that Ukrainian citizens, refugees are treated the same way as Polish workers and that these cases are as low as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u336	Thank you, Member. Mrs Margaret Navel. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to address the government with an inquisitive question about the deserts. The Act introduces e.g. simplification of procedures related to reconstruction, renovation and even the use of buildings owned by local government units intended for housing purposes. It is good that these regulations have appeared, but it is worth remembering that hundreds of thousands of Poles are waiting for the assignment of apartments often after several, several years. And according to the Supreme Chamber of Control, the municipalities have over 50,000. Emptynesses. Some of them, after a slight renovation, would be fit to live right away. Why didn't the government try to provide apartments that would be reserves for use at the moment? I think you've forgotten you've been in charge for seven years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski is preparing for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ukrainians, rape victims, you're not helping. Now again, you are preparing a recipe that can stir up the proputinist shura to sting the Ukrainians as having supposed privileges. Babysitting, if not assured, women won't go to work, you know - not a Polish woman, not a Ukrainian girl. The Act covers Ukrainian children between 3 and 5 years old. day care as a complement to the existing offer of educational system organizational units. This is a good move, because war experiences require individualisation of the educational process, it will allow for day care by a carer who is a Ukrainian citizen. In this way, Ukrainian children will not benefit from the pool of places used by Polish children. But the extension until the 5th year. concerns only citizens of Ukraine, not Poles and Poles. Polish children can only use this form of care until they are 3 years old. I'm asking you to fix this and not provoke the storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u341	This law and subsequent amendments are an expression of what checks life in the field of crisis management. I would like to ask the Minister a question about the decisions they have taken, and rightly so, individual representatives, heads of crisis management at the level of the municipalities, i.e. the mobs, mayors, presidents, or at the level of the powiats and then the voivodships, which as a result the financial support was provided after all the decisions that took place in this area. Because these are billions of zlotys, and it is good for everyone to be aware that these decisions must be made, that the consequences and burden must be borne by every segment of this crisis management, but that then there is support and transfer of funds. At the same time, I would also ask for clarification that there are no requests for EU money, because there is no programme for these applications, but there are (the bell) government speeches so that the Union creates additional funds and supports Poland in terms of expenditure on support for refugees. Thank you. [[From cohesion funds that have not been used.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, Law and Justice are preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is our duty to help the citizens of Ukraine. Each of us probably does it every day. Firstly, I wanted to ask for hundreds, if not thousands of humanitarian aid points organised mainly by humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations. This is humanitarian aid, which since the beginning of the war has gone to the most deprived. I myself co-ordinate such a point and I know that these organisations have actually been deprived of any systemic aid from the state and the local government. These are mainly volunteers who provide food, assistance necessary mainly for women and children. I'm appealing to keep it real. The necessary aid is because this great energy is slowly ending, and it is on this point that NGOs are replacing the state. Really, today there is the most lack of food for those who have been here longer, and the aid has not always arrived yet, and the resources have simply ended. That's my first question. Is that what you're looking for? The second question boils down to the fact that after 120 days (the bell) the law will cease to exist. Do you foresee an extension of this aid so that those who want to stay longer can find a job and prepare fluently to stay in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak. Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, is preparing for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the law is very expectations and, as the Minister said, it is a quick response to current needs. There are some things we can't predict, and we certainly can't. And like the Minister said, there will definitely be further amendments. It's a quick reaction, very good. And he's bragging about it. Because it helps not only our residents, but also people from Ukraine. Question to the Minister: Can you tell us what amount of compensation has already been paid to Poles who have sheltered families from Ukraine, and where the largest amounts have been paid to Poles? Thank you very much. [[The Minister doesn't listen to you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u346	There you go, Mr Artur Łącki. Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Coalition is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers and Members, Ukraine must be helped in every way and that is why I would like to say this from this speaker. None of us sitting here has been involved in any defense war, and I hope that neither we nor our children nor our grandchildren will ever have to. But every one of us, as we are here, is able to imagine what such a soldier and such a soldier would want. These are the two most important things. The first is that they want their older parents, their husband or wife, their children, their grandchildren to be safe. And that's what we did as Poles. The second thing is, they want something to fight with. And that's what we should do. This is why I call on Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Błaszczak to hand over our MiG-24 to the Ukrainian army. In our army they are not a very good platform, because we do not have (the bell) weapons for them, we do not have effectors, and the Ukrainians do. I also call for another attempt to transfer the Ukrainian army to MiG-29, because the MiG-24 flying platform is no different from the MiG-29 flying platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u348	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u349	That's what we should do for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u350	Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the interest of Poland, but also of Ukrainians, it is important that they take up work as soon as possible, so that they are independent in maintaining themselves. And learning Polish for adults Ukrainians, because I want to talk about it, is very important. I believe that this proposal in the Act is, firstly, late and, moreover, insufficient. There's too many restrictions. I'm saying this based on experience. When Ukrainians wanted to learn Polish very much, and there was no system in Poland, among others. my parliamentary office, but not only mine, organized the Polish language learning for the Ukrainians in the voluntary system, because there was no money for this purpose for NGOs. We have already been teaching Polish for 2 months and these people are increasingly taking up work. And this proposal, which is in the bill, when will it be realized? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u352	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u353	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'm going to point out that this time I'm going to ask for a written reply. I'll split my questions into two groups. I'm from Podkarpacie. Rzeszów, relative to the number of inhabitants, accepted the most refugees, because 100,000, i.e. 52%. Warsaw - 15% , approx. 270 thousand. I ask again: When did you submit your application? What kind of European money did you get? How did you divide it? How much for education, how much for individual support, and how does money go? The second thing: this famous eco peas, about which he asked, among others. Mr Tomasz Nowak, these 3 billion PLN, the purchase by the agency of material reserves, which you want to make, such a combination. I want to ask, who are you going to sell? What rules will you (the bell) sell? Where are you guys gonna store and when are these warehouses gonna end up? What will the purchase price, margin and sales price look like? These are the most important questions from me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u354	Thank you. The last question is asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are improving the law on assistance for Ukraine, and very well. In April, the so-called Law entered into force. a sanction whereby sanctions should be imposed on persons and economic operators associated with Russia, and very well. The law freezes e.g. all funds, economic resources, assets, accounts of entities that are listed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Very good. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, Polish citizens and Polish companies, who are not subject to sanctions, got ricocheted. This is the situation in Lublin, where 160 people lost their jobs and were not paid because the company's account was frozen. On 26 April, Sulzer Turbo Services (Bell) was listed, but wages were also deducted from entrepreneurs who provided services. Minister, why didn't people who had nothing to do with Russian actors who weren't oligarchs get paid?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u357	I appeal to the Minister for immediate intervention, because these people have no jobs and have no wages and no amendment to the bill. They're not oligarchs, they're Polish citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u358	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about helping Ukrainians and a law that helps to adopt system solutions. Some of the questions, including the latter, were not the subject of this discussion, but I would like to answer the most frequent ones. As regards the issue of European funds, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish government has been saying from the beginning that an additional fund should be created for refugees, and we are still presenting this position. We have tabled a proposal to the President of the European Council to convene a summit, and this will be discussed at the European Council, because only she can mobilise additional funds for an additional fund to help refugees from Ukraine. We do not want these measures for us, we want to allocate them to help all those whom Poland has been helping since the first day. With regard to these funds that are to be used today, it is possible to use them from other funds, I guarantee you that any euro that will be transferable, which will not be spent at the expense of other investments, will be shifted. A large proportion of the funds are no longer transferable as they are contracted, investments are currently under way from EU funds and there is no possibility of shifting funds. But if there are opportunities, where there is such an opportunity, we will use every euro, including the migration fund, as the latest information shows; where there is a possibility to use it, we will use the euro. Although this information on transfers concerns, attention is given to the measures that go into hundreds of millions of euros, and we are talking about the needs of billions of euros. Therefore, we want the same fund as it was for Turkey, for Greece, we want additional resources. This will also be the subject of the European Council's deliberations, there will be discussions and decisions on whether the Polish proposal for additional funds will be implemented or not. With regard to the system solutions related to the aid after these 120 days, the law was said to cease to function. No, the bill's still working. 120 days - this is a recipe that allows 40 zlotys per day to receive Polish families for helping people from Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act also provides in specific cases - for people who, for example, have a disability problem with adaptation in Poland - for these amounts to be paid after 120 days so that this deadline can be extended. One of the Members here spoke by misleading the public opinion and the High House that there are some provisions that speak of deserts that should only be used by Ukrainians. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. I think this Member was probably referring to art. 12a of the Act, but it does not concern emptyhouses, it concerns collective accommodation points and it does not concern those provisions which we introduce in this Act, which are connected with the regulation, the flexibility of the Construction Law. As regards the procedure that the voivodeships are implementing in the context of the payment of funds to local governments, PLN 1800 million is the amount which has been transferred to local governments to pay these benefits related to 40+, but also all the assistance and actions that local authorities have undertaken since the first days of humanitarian aid for people from Ukraine fleeing the war. As far as language courses are concerned, let me disagree with one of the messengers who said the government wasn't doing anything about it. Dear lady, even in the last week, there has been a selection by the Ministry of the Family in terms of the feasibility of such courses and NGOs, NGOs, among others. received over PLN 100 million for Polish language courses for Ukrainians. Thank you so much for this discussion. I also thank you for the fact that, as a general rule, the state supports these actions of the government. I look forward to a constructive discussion also in the Parliamentary Committee. I would also ask Minister Małgorzata Golińska to answer questions about issues related to the activities of the Strategic Reserve Agency on the purchase of coal. This is a matter where there is a very strong causal link between this law and the purchase of coal, ladies and gentlemen, because such a situation on the raw materials market as it is at the moment is also due to the war in Ukraine. Well, thank you very much, and I'd like to ask the Minister. [[It says no one's questioning that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u360	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Minister Margaret Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It cannot be hidden that the attack on Ukraine in February is not only millions of refugees in our country, it is not only the aid that we bring to Ukraine, but it is also a situation that adversely affects our Polish situation, the situation of Polish citizens, because our actions, our Polish actions, but also the actions of the European Union are sanctions that we impose on the supply of raw materials from the eastern direction, both from Russia and Belarus. The provisions proposed in this project respond to the needs we are seeing today, namely to allow free stocks to be redirected to the Road Development Fund in 2022. The aim is to allocate these funds to the purchase of energy resources by the government agency. The aim of this action is to strengthen the energy security of our country, our citizens, but also to prevent energy poverty. It is worth pointing out that the main customers of coal from the direction of Russia and Belarus were mainly individual customers, they were small district heating plants, especially district heating plants, they were small entrepreneurs, micro-entrepreneurs, including among others. greenhouses, fruit and vegetable producers. These actions, which we are taking, are also intended to safeguard them, to stabilise the market, to give them a guarantee of functioning in this reality that we are seeing today, are intended to help our citizens in a situation of potential shortages of raw material, such as coal. And as this is increasingly being discussed and citizens' concerns are growing, the government wants to be prepared for any eventuality. There is no denying that stable conditions, a situation when Poles hear that they should not fear that they will run out of coal, will certainly have a positive effect on their functioning and thinking about the next heating season. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u362	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, there has been information about problems in obtaining a special benefit for people who have accepted refugees from Ukraine. Art. The 13th Law of 12 March 2022 on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State sets out the data to be provided in the application lodged in the municipality to apply for measures. In the initial phase of the aid, the provision indicated that the name of the person accepted was needed and the PESEL number, if any. On the other hand, in the new wording of the article. 13, which has been in force since 30 April this year, is said to have entered the name and number of PESEL. This amendment means that the person's PESEL number must be included when completing the application. After Russia's aggression against Ukraine, thousands of refugees crossed the border with our country. During this phase, the broadcasting of the PESEL number to people from Ukraine was neither mandatory nor priority. At present, following changes to the provisions of the Act, these data are insufficient and aiders cannot apply for this cash benefit. In that case, is there no special benefit? How to resolve a situation? Is it planned to amend the rules so that the passport number can be the basis for payment of the aid?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u364	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the committee draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (Print No 2259). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the reasons for the resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I am proposing a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, contained in print No 2259. The draft resolution is the consequence of a revision of the Radio and Television Act and the Films Act 2021, where a report on the activities of the national board, which is to be justified, was introduced. Consequently, in its Rules of Procedure, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. 125 after paragraph. 4 you have to add your lips. 4a and after mouth. 5 - paragraph 5. 5a. It is a requirement that both the draft report and the report itself provide a justification. In my opinion, the project is simple and necessary... as a consequence of a previous statutory amendment. I therefore ask the High House to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Mr Jarosław Zieliński, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As Mr Smolinski has already said, the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, print No 2259, introduced to the Marshal's staff by the Rules of Procedure, Poselski and Immunity Commission, is due to the need to adapt the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to the provisions of the Act of 23 July 2021 amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law requires, in a new burden, that the draft resolution and the resolution of the Sejm rejecting the report of the National Radio and Television Council contain a justification. This is necessary and important because of the consequences of such a possible resolution, of course after the exhaustion of other circumstances in the Act which may lead to the cancellation of the members of the National Radio and Television Council, but also because of the need to adapt the rules to EU regulations, in particular Directive 2018/1808. The initiative of the committee, thus adding in the article. Paragraph 125. 4a and lips. 5a, therefore, is a natural consequence of the amendment of the Law cited. The project received unanimous support from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to the extent presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u368	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it's a pure formality. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be adapted to the provisions of the previously adopted amendments to the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. Logically, too: if a draft resolution on rejection of the report is submitted, it would be appropriate to justify why such a request is made. I can only have one reservation: I remember, unfortunately, from my many years of experience, that whenever such requests were made to reject the report of the national council, they were generally supported by justification. There was no statutory or statutory record, but just like I said, the logic was to say, we reject because... Well, maybe someone likes to have everything from dot to dot, so this Sejm, this House, in this term of office, wants to have this kind of regulation. I hope there's nothing dangerous about her, no other bottom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u370	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club, I have the honour to present my position on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Any amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which aim to improve the quality of the law created and established, deserve the highest support and recognition. And so it is in this case, i.e. The introduction of an obligation that the rejection of the report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council should be justified should be welcomed. On the other hand, it is regrettable or unsatisfied that the proposed amendment does not include the provision that such justification should be wise, honest, thoughtful, exhaustive matter to which it relates, or, finally, that the content of the justification should not offend the average level of intelligence of the sovereign. Unfortunately, reading many of the reasons for the legal acts, one can get the impression that their essence after being drained from more or less flowery phrases comes down to words: because we won the election and in a more extensive version: we are right, because the sovereign has decided that we are right. To be clear, this remark does not only apply to the current rulers, but also to the historical aspect. Hence the appeal: improving and correcting the current Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, let us respect the one already in force, and let us observe it. The Left Messenger Club will support the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u372	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u373	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Coalition Poland club to present my position on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. Well, as has been said many times here, in 2021, and precisely on 11 August 2021, the Parliament of the Republic of Poland amended the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, especially the provision that the resolution of the Sejm on the rejection of the report on the activities of the National Radiophony and Television Council should contain justification. Accordingly, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should also have such a provision. We, as a club of the Polish Coalition, will of course vote for this change. Dear Marshal! Taking advantage of the time, I would like to point out that on 9 December 2021 a group of Members, including members of my club, tabled a draft resolution, a comprehensive amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - this is print No 1917. This proposal includes proposals for amendments which repeal the rules that suppress freedom of expression, ensure the integrity and transparency of the legislative process, the opening of Parliament - here we are talking about democratisation of public hearing. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure is also intended to ensure that the Prime Minister is informed of the meetings of the European Council after they have been concluded. Question to the chairman of our committee, who I am a member of, and, of course, to the Marshal, the Sejm Bureau: When will we be working on this project? Does the freezer also cover these regulatory changes and will it be possible to discuss and adopt the draft amendment of the Rules of Procedure by the end of this term? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u374	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The processed point belongs to the category of michałków, no one is particularly interested in this, any change in the rules. There's a lack to fill in. We're supplementing. But the point is, it's deeper. After all, it is a body which, by law, by the will of the same High House, only in a different composition - namely the National Radio and Television Council - upholds freedom of speech on radio and television, protects the independence of broadcasters and, attention, interests of the audience and - what is most ridiculous in the current context - ensures the open and pluralistic character of radio and television. So I think you understand for yourself that this regulation needs to be formally amended, but it is especially unnecessary to explain why every report of this body should be rejected. It is the National Council of Radio and Television, which is withdrawn somewhere behind the scenes of the current political scene, patronizing this practiced censorship, but patronizing this really incredible deception of our public life, is responsible in statutory theory for the main sewer media, TVP dez-Info, WSI24. This advice is responsible for all of this. And what does it do? He doesn't do anything, he's patronizing. From Polish Gazeta to Gazeta Wyborcza ¿ Gadziny media They alternately take over the various spheres of our public life, and dominate the media. Currently we have a tilt towards the United Right, the left on the right side of the High House. In previous years, we Polish patriots, freemen, traditionalists and nationalists suffered the same censorship from those sitting on the left side of the High House today. And nothing changes, and the National Radio and Television Council, as she patronized, patronizes. So, ladies and gentlemen, let the formalities be done, but let us not look for great justifications, so that, when the time comes to reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council, we simply reject it. The fact that the Polish people, especially in our patriotic bubble (The Bell) are used to calling TV Jack Kurski a whore, is enough for all reasons. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u376	Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u377	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support this project, it is a presentation, because it is purely formal in nature and it would actually be an episode of something that does not actually make sense to discuss. Perhaps if not one comment: here is the result of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, among others. The fact that the National Radio and Television Council cares, ensures the open and pluralistic character of radio and television, especially of course public radio. Why wouldn't I be? Public radiophony and television are somehow extrapolating pluralism and democracy in our country, protecting this pluralism and this democracy. Based on public television data, you can count how many politicians Polka and Poles are able to see when they turn on public television. Imagine that within one hour of the broadcast of politicians on public television for 41 minutes of that hour, politicians and politicians can only be seen in the right ruling formation, the United Right. 10 minutes falls to the Civic Coalition, after 4 minutes - the Left, the Polish Coalition and the PSL, the honorable 1 minute in this ranking receives the Confederation, and 25 seconds - yes, 25 seconds - for each hour are statements of Polish politicians 2050. I'm having a dream. I would like to look forward to such a report by the National Radio and Television Council, where, in the name of ensuring pluralism and the open character of public radio and television, these values will at least correspond to the possession in the Sejm, and it would be even better if they were simply levelled for each of the groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u378	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. The next question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left and then by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this discussion is purely formal because, in substance, the discussion on the justification of the negative opinion in relation to the report of the National Radio and Television Council is irrelevant. In fact, the national council has been deprived of its constitutional powers by the current majority through the establishment of the National Media Council, which has actually become a political committee in which the PiS nominees decide what the functioning of the media will be. Dear Marshal! I would like to ask you this question to Marshal Witek: Is Marshal Witek going to stand up for the Constitution and take the steps that this problem of unjustified constitutional competence in the hands of the Council of National Media will end, and these powers will return to the national council? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the Act of 11 August 2021 amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, which entered into force on 1 November 2021, was amended in the article... etc. I have this question: Who, and eventually, if it is not a great mystery, realized that it was lacking in its entirety, and it is so-called. Technical error? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if the Sejm of the Brightest Republic of Poland, which was a legislative body for almost a year, acted on the basis of the rules which were in conflict with the law that we adopted ourselves. I am a humble Member, but from this point on the hands of your Vice-Marshal, I would like to ask you a question addressed to Marshal Witek: Why did this happen? Why has no one responded to such a situation for such a long time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u384	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment is intended to adapt our regulations to the amendment of the Act on Radiophony and Television so that the possible rejection of the report of the National Radio and Television Council by the Sejm is justified. The question therefore arises. Recently, a government majority rejected the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Constitutional Authority. Shouldn't that also be justified? While this is not the case under the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control, it could be said, by going this way, that it can also be brought to such a situation when the Sejm accepts specific reports of constitutional authorities and rejects them for various reasons, not quite often substantive (the bell), only political ones, there is no justification. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there are such cases and whether this has been examined by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u386	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the regulations is cosmetic in nature. It merely assumes that the resolution of the Sejm rejecting the report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council is to contain a justification. However, as long as it does not raise any special doubts, it would be more appropriate to consider the mechanisms for this council to uphold freedom of speech rather than the way it is now. The fact that Poland fell to 66th place in the ranking of freedom of the media shows how the council works. This is the worst result in history and a huge shame for our country. Poles have no doubt that media independence and access to reliable information are one of the fundamental foundations of a democratic state. It's time for the power of the PiS to understand. When will you finally present a reliable and comprehensive program (the Bell) to repair your ruined public media? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Gretel!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the fact that we are discussing amendments to the Rules of Procedure today, I would like to ask the Sejm's Bureau in particular to lean on these Rules more. Paradoxically, when the pandemic began, we started working online, the work of Members became more effective. Now we return to normality and about the effectiveness of this work nothing can be said at all. Mrs. Marshal! Today I had a meeting of one committee bureau and two other committees at the same time, at the same time. I can't split up into three people and be anywhere. Maybe it's finally time to take a simple school principal who can set up classes. If he'd set up a committee meeting for us, it'd be okay. However, it may be worth considering whether committee meetings, or at least those that are imposing, could also be held remotely, because this work efficiency will change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also need to talk about whether it's normal every two weeks in the Seym. Isn't it better to come every three weeks for a whole week? I'll leave you to think about it for the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u391	Thank you. Dear Marshal! It's very kind of you, respectable Law and Justice, that you're changing your rules where you've seen a loophole. But it's not like there was never any justification. After all, we all justify why. Besides, speaking of such justification, as we're talking about the National Radio and Television Council, you shouldn't have that power at all. You should never be given the opportunity to conduct such a thing as a national council, assign concessions and decide who can, who can't, who can't, who can't. Given how you're running your party media, which, for the record, are called public, where you're hating everything that's not yours and that's not related to your party, there's really nothing to justify. In the justification for rejecting the report of the national council, there will be at least one party in parliament, which you have decided not to show for several months, and if you show it, it will only be in a bad light. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a farce. You guys should pick up that toy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u392	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? I can't hear you. We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 04 hours 17 min 09]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u393	I'm reopening the session. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, in print No 2282. The committee's opinion is in print No 2304. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 in conjunction with Article. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice - Zbigniew Ziobro (prints No 2282 and 2304). I ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, to provide a justification for the proposal. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I submit to the High House a motion of joint opposition parliamentary clubs for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. This is not a debate. Only about the future of Zbigniew Ziobra, is a debate about the future of Poland, about the Polish state, about huge money and about the safety of Poles. This is a debate about the system he created. A system of lawlessness, which began to destroy relations with the European Union, a system so planned that Poland would sooner or later be outside the structures of the European Community. Zbigniew Ziobro should never become Minister of Justice, because his presence in the government threatens the safety of millions of Poles and Poles. His stubborn policy of conflict with the European Union, which he calls a hybrid war, threatens security all of us, our children, our families, because it threatens our alliance within democratic states and threatens the economic stability of Poland. The Poles have already chosen the West, not the Russian mire. It's not here, and there's never gonna be a third road. The issue we are talking about is very clear: Who calls for the exit from the European Union, pushes Poland into bloody hands of despots from the Kremlin? [[Applause]] Across our eastern border, Russian bombs are killing Ukrainians. And what does Ziobro do a month after the invasion? He's making his target from the European Union. In an interview with a pro-government newspaper, he insinuates that if it weren't for the Union, there probably wouldn't be a war. And who, besides Putin in Moscow, criticizes the Union on May 8th? In Rzeszów it is done by Zbigniew Ziobro. Think about whether you still want a man in the government who speaks the Kremlin language. [[Applause]] Since 2015, this man has been doing everything he can to devastate the rule of law in Poland, trample on the constitution and EU treaties. In fact, Ziobro has already made legal polexitu. The Polish justice system, the prosecutor's office, tribunals are actually outside the standards of the European Union. This is why negotiations on the adoption of the National Reconstruction Programme have been underway for a year. The leader of the game with the support of 0,5% - Yeah, yeah, 0.5%... [[Party girls.]] ...destroying the rule of law, blocking billions of KPOs, destroying relations with the European Union. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This, of course, would never have worked if it hadn't been for the support of Jarosław Kaczyński. A bunch of facts. The penalty imposed for the existence of a Disciplinary Chamber will soon amount to PLN 1 billion. This is equivalent to 1600 ambulances for emergency services, and there are currently 1300 ambulances in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: 1 billion PLN will be lost.]] The expenditure on psychiatry this year is PLN 642 million. How many human tragedies could be avoided if this billion went to help our children? [[Tusk's bill.]] The Court's penalties (Gwar in the Chamber, bell) are not the only financial losses that Poles suffer every day by Ziobra's policy. According to experts, the delay in the adoption of KPO and the loss of a 5-billion-dollar advance are huge and can no longer be undone for the Polish economy. Today this sum is PLN 21 billion. By 21 billion PLN is lower Polish GDP. They were placed on the altar of Zbigniew Ziobra. In sum of financial losses, we're not talking about amounts with six zeros anymore, we're talking about amounts with nine zeros. And it slips away from mathematical rules that zero can cost so much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Zero! Zero!]] But what does Ziobro do in this situation? Instead of ending this hybrid war, he's still escalating it. The latest ideas are extremely dangerous. The Minister of Justice began to call for the non-payment of contributions to the European Union. Can anyone imagine that Poland does not pay contributions while in the European Union? It's all happening at the moment... [[You're lying.]] ...the war threat of Poland, in a situation where there is a real, cruel war behind our eastern border, while the European Union alongside NATO is a guarantee of our security. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Today Poland must bet on European values and strengthen them, and PiS must reject all the Putinian changes in the justice system that have been introduced and operated by Ziobra in recent years. [[After all, you and Putin were the ones doing business.]] Minister Ziobro should be called off for this, because he is a disgrace to this government, but above all he is a threat to Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Zero's here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u395	I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Krzysztof Smiszek to present a further part of the justification for the proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Zbigniew Ziobro is the worst minister of justice in the last 30 years. Zbigniew Ziobro is the biggest judicial pest in recent decades. He wanted to be a sheriff, and he became the biggest criminal of the judiciary. He wanted to flex his muscles, and today he bends his neck in front of his boss. He was a tough guy last night, and today he's soft. [[Krzysztof, you already said that.]] He wanted to reform the justice system and clear the courts of irregularities, and who did he become? He's an ordinary dealer of positions in the National Court Register and the positions of the Presidents of the Courts. Instead of being a centre of constitutional concern for citizens' right to court, the Ministry of Justice has become the decision-making centre of a political party with zero support. Instead of making courts closer to citizens, it makes the same courts work slower and more small local courts disappear from the face of the earth. [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] Examples: the liquidation of the labor court in Wałbrzych, the liquidation of the labour court in Głogów. [[Voice from the O.R. Division.]] Zbigniew Ziobro is deaf to the protests of thousands of citizens of these small cities and towns. It's supposed to be cheaper in court, it's supposed to be faster in court, and what do we have? A collapse in the judiciary and a collapse in the D.A.'s office. The first court date is often not for a few months - it is standard to wait for several months or even two years. It's the same in the D.A.'s office, where you wait months to complete your investigation. When Minister Ziobro wants it, the D.A.'s office acts at the speed of light, e.g. When it comes to opposition, when it comes to young people or when it comes to women protesting in the defence of civil rights or their freedoms. At the speed of light, the prosecution also dies against neofascists and nationalists. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Zbigniew Ziobro privatized the D.A.'s office, which serves him today as the armed arm of his game. In a similar way, Zbigniew Ziobro privatized the Justice Fund. He took money from women's organizations, took money from children's organizations. [[Tell that to the firemen.]] What did he do in return? He transferred money to CBA to buy Pegasus. [[Applause]] The Supreme Board of Control, Minister, has crushed you and your achievements in the matter of the Justice Fund, has proved to you... [[The voice in the hall: Firemen will remember that.]] ...tens of irregularities, hundreds of millions of zlotys spent on projects and projects of friends from Solidarna Polska. These are hundreds of millions of zlotys, which instead of serving the victims of violence, serve to build the position of Zbigniew Ziobra. [[You're a friend of Banasi's.]] Zbigniew Ziobro is also the most expensive minister in Poland's history. Yes, it is his stubbornness, it was his actions that kept Poland waiting for billions of euros from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Yes, it was his diversionary and selfish actions that made the illegal Disciplinary Chamber pay hundreds of millions of dollars. Will Zbigniew Ziobro pay the money? Will Prime Minister Morawiecki pay the money? Will President Kaczyński pay that money out of his own pocket? No. We'll all pay those penalties. [[By the Ladybug who lies in the European Union.]] Let's be clear: Zbigniew Ziobro stole money from Poles. You should answer for that fact. Your place, Mr. Ziobro, is not in the government, but in prison. [[Applause]] Your place is also before the Court of State. I promise from this place to all Poles that I will prepare and file a motion to hold him accountable. I promise everyone that the Sejm will vote on this proposal in the first possible time, and Zbigniew Ziobro will not remain impunity and will disappear once and for all from public life. [[Applause]] Enough spoiling the country. Enough destroying people's lives. No more shame. Enough Zbigniew Ziobra in public life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It was funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u397	I would now ask the representative of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Polish Coalition, on behalf of hundreds of associations gathering victims of justice, signed an application for the appeal of Zbigniew Ziobra from the role of Minister of Justice. We have signed under this motion on behalf of the Undefeated Association 2012 and Mr.Mark Kubali, who has been waiting for over 3 years to deal with an emergency complaint, which was to be a remedy for all the problems of those affected by the justice system. [[Applause]] We have submitted our signatures under an application for cancellation of Zbigniew Ziobra on behalf of Polish entrepreneurs, whom you have prepared hell on earth through your legal chaos, a mess in the regulations. Many of them declared bankruptcy or fled Poland with their businesses. [[Applause]] We signed a motion for appeal on behalf of each Polish woman and every Pole who saw today the sign of the court, seeing today the sign of the prosecutor's office are afraid to cross the threshold of these institutions, because you have made them a farm of one political party, one minister. [[Voice from the room: Take care of Bury.]] Finally: we filed this application for cancellation of Zbigniew Ziobra on behalf of all children in Poland suffering from SMA, because if it were not for Zbigniew Ziobro and the multi-million-dollar penalties that Poland will suffer, these children would be provided with treatment. [[Applause]] We will therefore vote in favour of Zbigniew Ziobra's cancellation. Zbigniew Ziobro should stop being Minister of Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u399	I now ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, to state the reasons for the proposal. [[The voice from the hall: Bury should be the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u400	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! However, Prime Minister Leszek Miller miscalculated the market value of Minister Ziobra. At the current euro rate, however, this is the most expensive minister of the United Right, although the fact is: competition in government benches is fierce. However, he won and surpassed Vice Prime Minister Sasin several times, taking into account even the 1 billion losses at the construction of the Ostrołęka plant. It must be admitted that as the United Right - I quote the direct superior - you have real political gold in your ranks. Yes, Prime Minister, that is your term, although we know that you would be the first to vote in favour of dismissing your minister, but unfortunately you can't, because you can't, because companies, because the president and his political deal. And what will your wife say if you go to unemployment? As we know, she's the one who keeps the money at home. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And by the way, a beautiful example of gender balance in a relationship. I'm a big fan of this kind of equality. As a banker and financier, you know, Prime Minister, how significant in terms of the balance sheet loss of the state budget is the action caused by your subordinate, the Minister of Justice, because the negative value of Minister Ziobra for the Polish budget has many components. This PLN 1 billion punishment for the Disciplinar Chamber and 300 million for the Justice Fund are small in terms of losses to the Polish economy caused by one man and his ill ambitions. Out of the advance on KPO we missed 4.6 billion euros, i.e. 21 billion PLN. This is why they are holding back investments in Poland today. Even though apartments are built 22% less than in the same period last year, and they were not the only ones to be created under the National Plan for Reconstruction. Meanwhile, Zbigniew Ziobrze gets away with everything because it is necessary for you. From the justice system, from human rights, from the values of the European Union, from the judgments of the TSUE, from democracy, from the constitution, from the whole of the Republic of Poland your government made with its hands a company with unlimited liability. This company is bankrupt today like your morals, but here you can rely on a minister who will take care of your impunity by wielding the helm of a politicized prosecutor's office. [[Voice from the hall: Don't suck up to Tusk.]] Let me remind you that once the Minister of Justice from your political community was a dead man. Prof. Lech Kaczyński. Think of what he would think of blocking 58 billion euros for his own country by the constitutional minister. [[It's Ladybug. Ask her.]] How would he vote today? What would he recommend? Or maybe there'll be a decent person among you who'll get the vote wrong, come out for a while, lose the card, find the majority for this conclusion, someone right, one, literally one just? Is there anybody there? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: There is not a single one with you.]] [[Voice from the hall: All of us are just.]] [[You're gonna end up in PSL anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u401	I now ask Mr Mariusz Polużny to present the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so glad there's so many of you here. Finally, you will hear some words of truth and what was said at the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! Report on the parliamentary request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Today, a committee of justice met. The proceedings were very turbulent and I will try to give the spirit of these deliberations. Of course, the opposition had unsubstantiated arguments, lied, insulted, compared Poland - it also did so in the proposal - to Russia and Belarus. You were comparing us to Putin. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, presented the results of its hard work and we heard, among others, that VAT mobs were finally settled. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how could you be a millionaire for the Civic Platform? You had to buy a computer, a printer, and print invoices. [[Applause]] That's how you became a millionaire for Mr. Budki. You could have been a millionaire in your reign in a month, sir, as you were a minister of justice. Confiscation extended. Billions taken from these smart guys and handed over to Polish families. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It was today at the committee hearing that was very clear. Today, at the committee meeting, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro also spoke about many of the dramas of young people when they were using boosters. What did Donald Tusk say? We'll deal with the boosters. And meanwhile, in your reign, a 20-year-old kid pulled a few containers of boosters from abroad and was also a millionaire. That's how you became millionaires in your reign. [[And you're taking it now.]] Weed protection. How many dramas, how many estates confiscated, the bailiffs who took care of the poor farmers. All this was said today at the committee meeting and you will not escape it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We were talking about victims of domestic violence, finally working for prisoners. That's the smart thing you've made millions of dollars, we've got him in jail for our governments, and he's working. And that's the difference. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We've dealt with your main charges. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It was said at the committee meeting, ma'am. We've dealt with your main charges. The penalties imposed on Poland - you say. Ladies and gentlemen, this is who, if not Zbigniew Ziobro, warned against the mechanism of conditionality. He said: The European Union will blackmail Poland with money. You said no. Not much, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro showed the text of the resolution in which your MEPs ask the European Commission to punish Poland. And you guys don't remember that today. Shame! [[Disgraceful!]] [[The voice from the room: Betrayal!]] Until finally at this committee meeting, my humble person (Merry in the Chamber) told you that you are masters - Mr. Budka, you listen - to report to your own country. Mrs Beat Kemp's MEP has shown us the facts. Debates and resolutions on Poland - there were more than 100 of them in the European Parliament. Let's see another one of those insidious oppositions in Europe. There isn't. That's what you're champions are. And that was all said at the committee meeting today. [[But you ate all those boosters.]] Another thing. I'm done. You're talking about the three divisions of power, ladies and gentlemen, that the three divisions of power are... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But don't disturb me. I'm really trying to be gentle with you, and you're disturbing me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Write down the rule of law.]] Normally, if Poles had fair access to information, you would not be in this Seym for what you are doing because no one respects informants and confidants. [[Touchdown, applause]] And another thing. Three divisions of power, ladies and gentlemen, you say: three divisions of power. I am listening to you, what you think this threefold division of power is about, and I hear: Brussels, Brussels said, Brussels has written, the TSUE has ordered, the European Commission has ordered. This is your division of power: Brussels and submissive Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you have such a gene that you all have a post-communist gene, so servitude... [[How dare you, how dare you, man?]] ...where Poland is in second place, that does not mean that we will give in to Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro made it clear at the committee meeting... [[Game in the O.R.]] Shh... Because it's very important. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro made it clear at the committee meeting that he is a minister of the Polish government and Poland is the most important to him... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Money, not Poland.]] ...not Brussels for you. Do you have to come to committee meetings so you can understand that? Ladies and gentlemen! To end with words... [[Voice from the room: Without finishing, it's 10 minutes.]] I thought it was three minutes, and here's ten minutes. Next case, ladies and gentlemen, we are making further arguments. [[Don't pity them.]] Okay, whatever. It was in your motion, and we talked about it at the committee meeting - the prosecutor's office. You have a reservation that the Polish prosecutor's office will not be subject to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. You want all institutions to be subordinate to the European institutions. Why are you even in the Seym, tell me. [[Voice from the hall: It is a marketplace just.]] Why the Sejm, why the opposition? Let's move everything to Brussels. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro spoke to the distinguished group at the committee meeting, and I would like to... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Dear Minister.]] Dear Minister Zbigniew Ziobro - one cultural one in the whole company (Merry in the Chamber) - said the following words, which with great power on behalf of all those Poles who waited until this very cleverness of yours ended... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Wipe the platform, because it spit.]] On behalf of all these Poles we speak to you. [[Voice from the hall: But don't pour water.]] These are the words of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra: You are an environment that consciously acts against your own country, against your own citizens and against your own voters. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Bottom line... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The voice from the hall: He drank, he drank.]] Bottom line, I'm saying your game is extremely dangerous because you're laughing... [[No, just you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Because you're funny.]] ...but abroad, in Ukraine there are drastic violations of human rights, freedom and dignity. That's where you murder people. And you, inciting such a debate about the alleged lack of the rule of law that we have no human rights, that they are not respected, weaken our country at a crucial moment... [[A voice from the hall: This is a disgrace!]] ...when you have to stand with Ukraine on the side of the free world and defend. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Image - this must be protected.]] And this really smells like the Moscow direction, ladies and gentlemen, because it's no coincidence that we're being discredited so that we're not the leaders of the anti-putin coalition in Europe and in the world. But we will be the leaders, for we have in our hearts and minds the love of the law, the love of liberty and human dignity. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I also asked at the committee meeting, I asked the key question... [[You?]] We're not on you, buddy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I asked the key question: Do you, when you report to Poland, have any shame? No one answered. [[Voice from the room: They don't.]] [[Voice from the room: They do.]] No, you don't. You don't have any shame. No one answered. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, what I want to say is that the Civic Platform misses this business-political system, where sneakiness has been made, where sneakiness has been impunity, and ordinary citizens have suffered heavy penalties. But it won't come back. [[Applause]] [[Are you talking about ventilators?]] And I guarantee you that Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, as long as he is in politics and another day longer, will defend Poland and defend Polish sovereignty, and will not replace it as you do with these German silvers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: O Nowak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u403	Your marshal in formal mode, right? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've just finished debating the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. We just saw the committee rapporteur's speech. I understand you want to defend your minister, but I was expecting a report from the committee, not... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Everything was at the committee meeting.]] [[Voice from the room: It was!]] (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[But you were at the committee meeting?]] I was watching the board meeting. It wasn't a committee report, first of all. And secondly, I would very much like to see us in this Seym, even at such a turbulent moment, guarding the rules of the Seym and not insulting each other. [[Applause]] It was an unworthy speech, even if you wanted to defend your minister. The rules in the Seym must apply. [[Applause]] [[And the formal conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u405	Your Marshal, I'd like to point out that this was a statement, not a formal motion. [[It's about changing the way you drive.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Michał Wójcik, the Law and Justice, has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u406	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I only have five minutes... [[And then it'll be 25 years.]] ...and may these five minutes be a specific act of indictment against you as a hopeless, total, powerless opposition. I'm a 7-year minister... [[Voice from the room: 7 years too long.]] ...the seventh time I've been in a debate on a motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u407	Mr Nitras, I warn you one last time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u408	Mr. Marshal, they're bothering me. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u409	Are we going to another punishment? [[But, Marshal, I'd love to. You can do anything here.]] Well, that's great. I can rule you out even. Something again, huh?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u410	Boris, you have the most to say as the man from the opposition who most often speaks in matters of justice, but I've seen through your few months when you were Minister of Justice, and the greatest success: these prisoners escaped from Grudziądz. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] While you were sleeping, they sawed through the bars and ran away. Second success: your superior learned your name after a few months. That's the truth. [[What a form.]] Now let's get down to serious business. Ladies and gentlemen, relations between Poland and the European Union. Why do we call you a total, powerless opposition? Because for a few years you've been going to Berlin, to Brussels, standing on wipers, whimpers... [[What an asshole!]] ...those of the West will pat you on the shoulder and consider you--attention, that's the historical term-- useful idiots. You don't even know what you're doing. [[The voice from the room: Oh, it hurts.]] [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] [[Some of the Members are leaving the room.]] It's really good that you're leaving, get out. [[Bravo! Get out and don't come back.]] Mr. Nitras, listen to a few words of truth about yourself and your formation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, why Minister Zbigniew Ziobro will remain. Well, the first thing is VAT fraud. For years, you could have introduced special rules on VAT fraud to block thieves who robbed the weakest Poles, you didn't. Zbigniew Ziobro did this: new type of crime, 25 years in prison. This is why social programmes are being implemented today. That's the first thing. The second thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the fight against those who drugged and drugged in schools that poisoned young people, poisoned children. You could have done it. You couldn't have done it. Zbigniew Ziobro made this special act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Effect: The king of boosters said he should be killed. Today, the one who's the instigator for this crime is in temporary custody. Poles need to know that. Case three-- drug mafia. You relaxed the rules, but the criminals laughed at you, and the retirees didn't have access to the medicine. It was Zbigniew Ziobro who prepared special regulations regarding the blocking of the drug mafia. [[And you bought the ventilators.]] In fact, it was about the reverse supply chain. He did it. Why aren't you talking about it? Case four, the Justice Fund... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you want one? You're welcome. How much did you pay for crime victims in 2012? PLN 1.5 million. How long will it be in 2022? 120 million. 1.5 million - 120 million, but you're attacking. You sit quietly, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, but sometimes you attack the Justice Fund. Why? Because from the fund, 190 million were spent on firefighters. Why? Zbigniew Ziobro decided that because they were the first on the scene, and you and your formation didn't fit. This is the Justice Fund. [[Applause]] Children's protection, the area I'm taking care of. Two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, there was a vote in this courtroom on the bill. It was a disgraceful vote on your part. We've always been together, and we've always protected children, but what have you done in this case? An emergency complaint is filed by the Attorney General and at the same time a motion to suspend the execution of the order, and you are against it, i.e. pushing Polish children abroad, this was the vote. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Zbigniew Ziobro was behind the bill not to take children solely because of poverty. The first law we have introduced as a government of the United Right. Zbigniew Ziobro was behind the law on illegal adoptions to block the business so that the children wouldn't be sold online, ma'am. [[Applause]] [[That's what happened.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, ……]] As far as alimony issues are concerned, Tadeusz Cymanski is asking, you're welcome. We changed the recipe. Turns out there's a few hundred percent today. More alimony charges than in your day, all you had to do was change a few words in the recipe. [[Applause]] [[It's true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u412	And last but not least, because they interrupted me. The question of why Zbigniew Ziobro should remain: because he is fulfilling the will of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński was his student. Lech Kaczyński always wanted Poland to be a just country, so that the country would be strong against the strongest. [[You're still wiping Kaczynski's face.]] [[Voice from the hall: He'd throw him on Lech Kaczyński Street.]] And Zbigniew Ziobro is doing it, which is why he's gonna stay. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u413	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Coalition. In fact, it's a shame you're coming back. [[Mr. Marshal, you can leave, too.]] We'll see. [[Voice from the room: This is unacceptable...]] Of course it's unacceptable, but that's the kind of company we're dealing with. Poles see it. [[That's right, we have to be so rude...]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, dear citizens, Minister Ziobro is the worst minister of justice in free Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: The best.]] And that's not an opinion, that's a fact. This is confirmed above all by statistics and assessments of Poles, and this is the most important for us. [[Don't be ridiculous.]] The reform of the judiciary, please note, is being judged negatively by more than 80% of the population. [[Applause]] Very well assessed by only 1.5% society. It's embarrassing, isn't it? Similarly, Minister Ziobro himself has a terrible opinion. For years he has been a politician who has recorded the worst results in the rankings of trust. He is always among those politicians who are the least trusted in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Tusk's not gonna beat anybody.]] I'll be honest with you, if at least he'd lift the weight on his shoulders and raise the score of the party, that would be forgivable. Solidarna Poland, however, does not exceed 1% in surveys support. Let's take a look at seven years of guys filling posts in ministries, agencies, banks and getting money. Since Minister Ziobro achieves such poor results, it can be said that he is the worst politician in the history of the Third Republic. One can say that he is the biggest loser (Applause) of Polish politics. But you're not interested. For you, it's the behavior in this majority room that guarantees you power, money and limousines. That's what matters most to you. [[Lie!]] The best evidence is what you've done with the Justice Fund. [[And you call on foreign countries to fight against Poland.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No screams, no rude words, no speeches mocking the Polish Parliament, you will not drown out the truth. You're not jamming the truth. [[Applause]] What you've done with the Justice Fund is disgusting. It was supposed to be money for victims of crime, people who were traumatized by rape or violence. [[Tell that to the firemen.]] What have you done with them? [[Game in the O.R.]] Opole's voice came out. You make money for fake charities, caterers with hundreds of thousands... [[What caterers?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can read about all your wimps in the NIK report. The Poles read it, and that's why you have 1%. support. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The main task of the Minister of Justice is to organise judicial work. Let's take a look at the results. The fact that proceedings in courts are prolonged is already obvious to all Poles. No conference, not even 10 conferences, during which information will be manipulated, will change that. [[Pretensions to the Association of Iustitia.]] Minister Ziobro is the first Minister of the Third Republic of Poland under whose judicial proceedings have extended so significantly. What worries the most is increasing crime rates. This is often forgotten in the discussion on the condition of the Polish justice system. Please note - this is also confirmed by important police officers - that statistics are growing when it comes to home invasions. There Poles should feel safest. The statistics are growing when it comes to carjacking. The statistics on homicide are growing lavishly. You don't care at all. Importantly, the number of crimes on the Internet is increasing dramatically. It goes on for example. For extortion of access to accounts. Poor old people lose all their savings. There are hundreds of notifications coming into the D.A.'s office every week. So? The D.A. can't help all the people who are hurt. These cases are on the D.A.'s desks, and you're completely not interested. The biggest sin of Minister Ziobra - apart from the reform of the judiciary - is, of course, the terrible condition of the Polish prosecutor's office. For many good lawyers, being a public prosecutor was a kind of fulfillment of a professional dream. You've been trying hard for seven years to turn prosecutors into a corps of obedient officials. You're breaking their spines. Some of them you threaten with delegations and disciplinary proceedings, some you reward with meaningless rewards. All in order to ensure the implementation of political facilities. [[A phone call hearing.]] It seems that after listening to such a summary of the ministry of justice, it is impossible to defend it specifically. Therefore, Poles ask themselves: Why do you need such a minister of justice, such a terrible politician? Why? Because he gives you one thing. It's about the impunity of the power camp. This is a politician. [[Applause]] This cynical smart-ass is a politician who can do anything political. [[Sawicka, remember.]] That was the case with Jarosław Kaczyński, that was the case with Sasin and 70 million PLN, that was the case with... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: We're going to put you in jail anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u415	Thank you, sir. Ms Anna Maria Żukowska, the Left Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I stand here on behalf of women and on behalf of children, whom Minister Ziobro could help in a very simple way. There's a bill waiting to be passed, but Minister Ziobro only has clichés on his mouth. He's just talking about how much you want to protect your children from crimes, how much you want to help women. Minister Ziobro, instead of dealing with these problems, became a promoter of haters and anti-Semitics such as Piebiak and Dudzicz. When it is necessary to vote in the interests of Poles and Poles, in the interests of women and children, the Left vote even with Solidarna Polska, even with PiS, even with Minister Ziobro. Example: reprivatization law. Didn't we vote as we should vote in the interests of Poles and Poles? Another issue is the immediate isolation of the perpetrators of violence. We also voted in the right way. [[Once you behave decently, that doesn't mean you're decent.]] On the other hand, Minister, we are waiting for action. There are projects in the freezer for immediate withdrawal of child support and a change in the definition of rape crime. What is Minister Ziobro doing? At that time Minister Ziobro invented that Poland should denounce the Istanbul Convention. Don't we have a problem with violence in Poland? [[The anti-violence bill is.]] It's about domestic violence, where the main victims are women and children, and the main perpetrators are men. It's a ideology of the law. This is an act against our nation. [[What about unborn children? There's no violence there?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u417	Sir, don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u418	This, of course, is not the only example. Another example - this has already been mentioned - concerns the National Plan for Reconstruction, ratification of the European Fund for Reconstruction, on which Solidarna Polska was opposed, but only thanks to the Left can we today talk about how to obtain this money at all. And you have the nerve to say in committee or parliament that we're the ones blocking the money. [[Voice from the room: They're blocking Ladybug and Tusk.]] You were against this money being sent to Poland at all. After all, Minister Ziobro said in December 2021: sovereignty is not for sale, I will not take responsibility for changing our obligations to voters. These are the words of the Minister. What's suddenly changed so rapidly? Is Poland no longer sovereign according to Minister Ziobra? Yes? Now you want the money? You should have voted for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u419	Catherine Ueberhan, Left - the rest of the time to use.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u420	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Zbigniew Ziobro - Minister of Injustice in the Government of the PiS serves as the longest of all ministers running the Ministry after 1989. As one of his party colleagues once described, he is the card of this government, known on its way from many programs with a plus: Apartment+, Little+, etc. We all know them. And like his government, also the Minister - as we heard today at the committee meeting from his party colleagues - is, in short, the Minister of Justice plus. So I sought a summary of the Ziobro+ ministerial programme. And so the flagship project is a deformity+, a deformity of justice and systematic politicisation of justice, manual control, supported by bubel+, that is, legislative monsters produced by the Ministry. The money box+ means the money box out of state control. Here is the privatized Justice Fund, which is the source of money for its own. I said, what about the victims? Sheriff+ means reuniting the function of prosecutor general and minister of justice, which allows the office to be used for political purgatory among insubordinate prosecutors, promote, reward loyal and repress judges for inconvenient sentences. To the courts further and further, the proceedings become longer and longer. Lawlessness+ - the prosecution of the guarantor of the rule of law has become a political investigative body. He is fiercely pursuing activists, activists and ordinary citizens because they were in the wrong place and at the wrong time, offended the monument with a rainbow flag or religious feelings with a piece of cardboard. Or maybe they stood in a crowd at a women's protest... [[Voice from the room: Illegally, by the way.]] ...or during quarantine, they went to get groceries? Well, it's related to detention plus. There has been an increase since 2016 in arrests of 60%, and the average time spent in temporary detention is 439 days. Anything else? I left the most interesting one at the end: heyt+. An informal, well-organized cell to generate a heyte... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...with a working name called Casta/Antiquist are those steadfast, working within the Ministry to slander and harass the insubordinate... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! It's been a while since you've had such a blurry face... [[Applause]] I didn't think I'd ever express such sympathy here, but you're about to defend a person who has consistently cut the branch you've been sitting on for several years. [[Applause]] He's doing it without scruples. Defend this man in a moment, plus, so to speak, identify with the behaviors of his comrades - that's a challenge. Let's see if you can handle it. [[Applause]] High Izbo! This proposal is not just a proposal for Zbigniew Ziobra. I think we should be honest with ourselves in this House: this is the proposal for the entire Solidar Poland - the most harmful formation of the last 30 years. [[Applause]] [[Apologize for that.]] [[The voice from the room: To Bury!]] There was no political environment that so divided Poles, which was so anti-Polish, which was so anti-European. Let me tell you something: you are the Janusz of Polish politics, my dear country. [[Applause]] It's a good thing you're gonna hear some truth about each other today. They say you brought 200 activists, that is, all your activists from all over Poland, to defend you here. Ladies and gentlemen, today you will learn some truth about your rulers, and it will be good for you. Zbigniew Ziobro, together with his ministers from Solidarna Poland, said at today's committee meeting that the judiciary is not a department of justice, that it is just such a clipping. Minister! Polish Solidarna Dear! For Polish citizens... [[Dear, dear...]] Yes, dear, because you cost the Poles as much as no one else. It didn't cost. [[Applause]] For each Polish woman, for each Pole, the judiciary is the essence of justice. Listen, High Izbo: one of the Members of Solidarna Polski started to talk yesterday about what was going on, how Poles and Poles are going to court today. He pulled out of that path fast, he didn't go any further, but I think today would be good... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Pułżny, it was you. You're in a little better shape today. It wasn't as good yesterday. Well, what happens today, like a Polish woman and a Pole, like every citizen goes to court, to the prosecutor's office, ladies and gentlemen? Fear engulfs him, fears engulf him. And you know why? [[Criminals are scared.]] In court, proceedings sometimes take longer than many Poles' lives. And in the case of the D.A.'s office, it's fear at all. Or what if I say so, the PiS councilman knows the case somewhere and reports it? What if someone out there from Solidarna Polska blocks it? They're gonna come and see me at an hour. They're gonna take it out of the house in the morning. So there isn't today... Of this I would like to make a great charge against Zbigniew Ziobra and his political formation: the banalism in Poland is beginning to be a fundamental constitutional right to access justice. [[Applause]] This is the basic competence of constitutional responsibility for the justice system, which has been exercised by one man for seven years. There was no minister in Poland's history, who for 7 and 2 years, for 9 years held undivided power in the justice system. [[And that's a sign of something.]] And at the same time, Minister, and dear gentlemen of Solidarna Poland... [[And ladies.]] ...there has never been such a miserable accomplishment, so many problems both in the country and abroad. [[Applause]] Finally, one more charge, which many Poles make against you. You have made yourself of the European Union a punching bag, an element that you resinize before you completely disappear from the political stage. But I will tell you something: the European Union, contrary to what Kowalski and others are going to tell here today, is a great value for many Poles. [[Applause]] Something that caused the European continent to be free of war. And that's something you should consider. Every apostasy... I know the truth hurts. High Izbo! The truth hurts friends, colleagues from Solidarna Polski (Gwar in the room, bell), but any deviation from European standards, from European standards, from which you are so fleeing, remember that they are moving Poland to the east. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're moving Poland to a place where there's war. Thank you. [[You were the ones lying there in front of Soviet Russia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u423	Mr Sosnierz, Confederation, now has the floor. [[I'm listening.]] [[I'm listening, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u424	Okay, listen up. Listen up. You've already heard things from the Left, from the left-wing opposition, and I'm going to tell you what the left-wing opposition isn't going to tell you. You and your ministry are introducing zapaterism in Poland. You are systematically working on stigmatizing men and pursuing further demands of feminists. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Something like that.]] Yeah, it wasn't enough for you to have a bill: an apartment for talking to the police, not the courts, but for every normal batter to throw his landlord out of his apartment on the basis of a plea. It will be a few years before textbooks like: how to destroy a man will be updated about this knowledge (Merry in the Chamber), but the achievements of this law, I think they will be implemented creatively here in the coming years. The law of kaduk will allow this to destroy innocent people's lives. But that's not enough. Now you're cooking an immediate maintenance recipe that will automate the financial exploitation of ex-husbands even more, and you're setting another award in our legal system for effectively isolating a child from one of the parents, in practice usually from a father. Instant supplements is simply a reward for making a child a practical half- orphan, that's a vending machine. [[What, the baby's gonna be hungry?]] Who's the baby with? My place. Then you're paying $1,000. But she took them illegally. Oh, that's where you'll be courting. For now, you cry and pay. You're a guy, that's what fathers are for, to pay alimony. [[And where's the baby in all this?]] Yeah, where's the baby in all this? You're taking the child hostage to those kidnappers. Yeah, that's exactly how it works. And if she turns out to have taken it illegally, so what? [[What are you talking about?]] The overruns are no longer refundable. This is the law of the Kaduk you are introducing. [[The baby's not father's property.]] For non-payment of alimony, prison is at risk, and the failure to make contact is only a small financial penalty that can be imposed on the costs of obtaining such alimony. Aliments are pathology. Aliments are pathology. It should be an exception to the rule, not a rule. Parents should maintain their children equally personally and should have equal rights to them after divorce. [[This child has rights.]] But that's still not enough, because you're already announcing the next steps, you're already having other meetings with the Counselor of the Crow, who teaches women how to gain benefits in exchange for talking about violence. Talking about violence in court costs nothing, no lying woman's hair has ever fallen off her head in this country because of it. It's a safe strategy to obtain property benefits at the expense of your ex-husband. Add to this other pathologies like horizontal complaints, where colleagues consider their colleagues for coffee complaints against each other, add an extension to the use of classified meetings, add an increase in court fees in family courts - of course not in alimony cases, because the way to the treasured husband is always to be sent with roses for his ex-wife. You wanna keep sucking up to feminists, you wanna keep being a feminist slipper? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did you hear that gratitude in Mrs. Żukowska's voice? They're gonna pay you back at the urns. Good luck. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u425	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In sports, a strong trainer can manage on his own when the words about lack of trust are directed toward him. Weak judge, weak coach's gonna need the help of the clappers. Today, at the committee meeting, the Minister of Justice had to benefit from the help of many colleagues. In sports, it is worth listening to critical opinions, even those from a rival - this is something that politics despises. And the motion for a vote of confidence is an important law of the opposition. And today you, Minister, and your colleagues show a lot of contempt for those making such an application. Why so much contempt for the opposition? Why so much contempt for judges and prosecutors? I'll remind you a few facts, or I'll actually ask you questions. How would you feel if you were a member of the family of the judge that you and your co-workers, and even from that parliamentary speaker, accused of stealing pants, and the Court of Appeal in Lublin dropped disciplinary proceedings because the judge was ill? At the time of the alleged act, she did not recognize its significance and could not direct her actions. The act did not contain the marks of the forbidden act. And how would you feel if you were one of the 31 judges who presented a draft resolution at a court meeting in Olsztyn in the defense of another judge, and the court president tore up these pages? And today this president is at the bureau of the new KRS. How would you feel if you were a prosecutor who critically spoke of the work of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General and was punished for it, which is sent to work in a remote city? [[Voice from the room: Has he been released?]] How would you feel, Minister, if you were the judge who was suspended by the President of the Court of Human Rights for the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights? There are more similar examples. How would you feel about these people? How would you feel if you saw that the Minister of Justice, instead of defending these people, was responsible for harassing them? Today you want to be the victim, and those I mentioned, and many other people in the Polish justice system, are your victims. And for the complete conclusion, Minister, it would be worth to make it clear to you that the reform of justice is not as well carried out as you say. After all, we recently passed a law in the Sejm, which consisted of three articles, was simple, ordinary, and the Ministry of Justice had to be 5 years old to prepare it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u427	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u428	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we are all asking ourselves one important question: Can a politician from Rose Avenue continue to be a minister in the government? The inhabitants of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship do this in particular. By the stubbornness of Zbigniew Ziebra, the inhabitants of my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship have already lost PLN 138 million of the European Union's money. [[That's not true!]] That's why, for example. in Wąbrzeźno, in Aleksandrów there will be no pedestrian crossing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I'm also from Kujawsko-Pomorskie.]] That's why, for example. The children of Włocławka will have nowhere to play football. That's why in Grudziądz e.g. There won't be a new road. For Mr. Zbigniew Ziebra, such money is small, I would say, pocket money. His representative budget, the Justice Fund, is an annual budget of PLN 400 million. The Supreme Audit Chamber stated in its report that over 280 million zlotys were wrongly, unintentionally, uneconomicly or incorrectly spent. That's twice as much as the people of my voivodship lost. However, the Minister of Justice should also be assessed by the perspective of effectiveness in the reform of justice. What do we see there? Poles are waiting for a sentence in many cases almost twice as long as a decade ago. That's the truth. We in the parliamentary offices see it every day. As far as Minister Ziobra's governance is concerned, if he were Minister of Science, there would probably already be law and justice departments instead of law and administration. If I wanted to exchange a full list of Zbigniew Ziobra's omissions, there would be no time. But there is something very important - someone who is ripping out congratulations for a man who was proud that he defeated the President of the Zełeński Ukraine, cannot be a minister of the Polish government. It can't be. [[Applause]] E.g. Therefore, the agreement of Jarosław Gowin supports the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u429	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u430	Zbigniew Ziobro. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] A man who should never have been the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. [[Applause]] One of the biggest pests in the history of the Third Republic of Poland. The man who brought the rule of law in Poland to Russian and Belarusian standards... [[Voice from the room: How's the PZPR?]] ...ruined Polish transplantology, together with Rydzyk he makes Polish walls of Europe. Although he is a minister by the grace of President Kaczyński, he bites the hand that carried him into power. You defend him like independence, although you know that he is not worth it, and his fall would be beneficial not only for Poland, but paradoxically also for the PiS and Morawiecki government. Shake off this sick love for Ziobra, which compromises our country in the European Union, prevents the use of billions of euros from the European Fund for Reconstruction, takes EU money from Poles for KPO. [[Come with us.]] Ziobro has made his private farm, the republic of the guys who are cast by the KRS, the illegal Disciplinary Chamber, the Supreme Court, the prosecutor's office, the office of the governors of the courts. The Justice Fund has turned into a private bank account... [[What kind of nonsense do you say? Come to your senses.]] ...from which he generously gives the guys in favorable parties of foundations and associations. He was suspected of funding his own party with money from the European Parliament, but the prosecutor's office under his rule quietly She's canceled the procedure. Ziobra's story didn't start in 2015. He's been hurting Poland for eight years now. Barbara Blida's death and many, many others have not yet been explained. The fact that he had merit for his first duckism too. He was one of those who led to the collapse of Jarosław Kaczyński's government in 2007. Now I want to repeat this maneuver with respect to the Moravian government. But that's not why you're defending him, because that would be extremely stupid of you already. Why, then? Is it because he's got hooks on you? Aren't you ashamed? The Parliamentary Circle of PPS supports the motion to express a vote of distrust towards Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Voice from the room: PZPR put on.]] We're happy to say goodbye to him in politics. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] That's right, get out of here!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u431	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Game in the O.R.]] But let's leave the rudeness on that side, okay? [[What a bummer, just unbelievable.]] Now, please take the floor of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of Mr Zbigniew Ziebra. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, they're out.]] [[Voice from the room: And don't come back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! After listening to these speeches, there is nothing left for me to say but to appeal to my words, which I addressed to the total opposition during the work of the Parliamentary Committee, because unfortunately you were not able to surprise anything new except manipulation, lies and invectives. [[He's quoting himself.]] [[Easy, elegant talk.]] I must tell you that you are not only a total opposition, but above all a fatal one. [[Applause]] It's fatal for Poland, it's fatal for Poland, it's lying, it's vicious, it's fierce. [[Zero, zero.]] This is borne out by your recent speeches both at the committee meeting and just now at the Parliamentary Speaker. [[07.]] [[Voice from the hall: Paszyk was the best on the committee.]] You don't really know that - I appeal both to the Platform and to the other parties of adjudication which constitute this opposition - that you have an error in the name of the party, because it should not be: platform, but contempt. Disdain towards Poland, because no one else, just you constantly in Brussels, in the European Parliament you go against Poland (Applause), you report and demand that you impose on your own country, on your own country, on your own nation, on your own voters financial penalties and sanctions. [[That's right, that's right. Terrible truth.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors!]] This is contempt for your own country. [[Voice from the hall: Targowica.]] [[Voice from the room: With her hands.]] But it is also contempt for your voters, whom you consistently and effectively deceive, unfortunately, that it is not you who are responsible for blocking the European funds that belong to Poland. [[Voice from the room: It's you.]] Well, you are the main political perpetrators of this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[The market.]] I took it with me, but I've already decided to let it go, a file of nearly 100 resolutions that I have in the Parliamentary Jury. [[Voice from the room: Grace.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You're not gonna shoot.]] Here are the prints of two of them you've been demanding lately what? [[Voice from the room: Your cancellation.]] It is precisely that Poland should be punished so that the European Commission will block Poland's money. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors!]] And who votes in favour of such resolutions? Marek Belka, Jerzy Buzek, Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz, Ewa Kopacz. Do you know them? [[A painted fox.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] And you have the audacity in the Polish Parliament to shout where this European money, accuse us - whether it's Solidar Poland or the United Right - that we do not want to bring this money to Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And for that, your court will condemn you.]] Even May 3rd... It is May, the end of beautiful Polish May, but this May is also connected with our history, with a holiday which has always aroused the pride of all generations of Poles since the Constitution was passed on 3 May. And you in this beautiful feast of the Polish constitution had the audacity to organize a spectacle of accusations and slanders against Poland in the European Parliament. [[They agreed to it.]] And you also throated there on May 3rd, this May, for financial sanctions, blocking money for Poles. [[And what board is your wife on?]] It's your responsibility. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Liar!]] You do as in this saying, like the thief caught by the hand in the act, who shouts loudest: catch the thief, for you are thieves. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] These more than 100 resolutions and resolutions from the European Parliament's committee, the resolutions from the European Parliament, are your work, and these are the consequences that Poles feel today. [[Room voice: 07.]] [[You're gonna sit down.]] [[Voice from the room: One more year.]] But I must tell you that it is not only the money that does not affect Poland that requires questions that you should be asked. [[Less than zero.]] And what happened to those VAT taxes during the eight years of your governments that you let the VAT mob steal? None other than Marian Banas, whom you are so eager to invoke and from this speaker, pointed out that PLN 262 billion was stolen during the time when you ruled. [[Voice from the room: Who did you lock up?]] PLN 262 billion with VAT. It's your responsibility. [[You're lying, man!]] You say that the 0.5 billion sanctions you demanded are a big problem for Poland. Yeah, that's a problem for sure. Surely your demands and your efforts to punish Poland bear bad fruit, but this is not about 0.5 billion, this is about PLN 262 billion. It's your responsibility, your bill. [[Applause]] I will also ask: What about the hundreds of millions of Amber Gold scandals that were stolen under your Prime Minister's watch from the scandal where thousands of Poles were allowed to lose their lives? Some have literally taken that life away from themselves. [[GetBack.]] [[Room voice: Respirators.]] [[SKOK-i.]] And I hear your prime minister was supposed to say that he knew it was bullshit from the start. And what did he do? [[Voice from the room: What about GetBack?]] What about Poles' pension money? What about OFE? [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] What about the billions you took from the Poles? Where are they? Why don't you explain? [[Voice from the room: Give me the money.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where's the ventilator dealer?]] You have the audacity, in these particular difficult times for Poland, for Europe, for the world, at the time of Putin's attack on Russia, to compare us to Putin. This is a very interesting expression of your political sense, your state instinct and this blindness when it comes to the Polish state's right, since you use such arguments. But since you're bringing this up, I'm gonna ask you a few questions. [[The president didn't come to defend you.]] Do you know who on this speaker in his exposé said that we need to normalize, build the best relationship with Moscow, the way it is? [[Donald Tusk.]] One that murdered children and women in Chechnya during the Second Chechen War, who murdered Georgians after the attack on Georgia, who murdered journalists such as Anna Politkowska, who murdered political activists such as Boris Niemcow. Yes. And Donald Tusk felt that it was with Russia that we should build the best relationship in the area of security. [[The voice from the hall: I hugged with Putin.]] And what capital is the only prime minister of the Polish government, I'll give you a hint, Moscow, he chose as the first one outside the European Union worth visiting? Which Prime Minister was it? Do you remember which Prime Minister it was? And what premiere did the Putinist press write about: our man in Warsaw? Do you remember which premiere the press wrote about? [[Voice from the hall: How many people do you have with Ordo Iuris?]] And now let me remind you how fondly your leader, Prime Minister Donald Tusk, responded, that Putin is ours, that is, your man in Moscow. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Moskali's friends.]] I think that these mutual Laudings of Putin, Tusk, are very eloquent, if we look at the facts, at the actions you have taken and your Prime Minister has taken during your reign. Who blocked the construction of the pipeline from Norway to Poland, which guaranteed us independence when it comes to the supply of gas from outside Russia? Who blocked the construction of this pipeline? Remember? [[Voice from the room: Miller.]] And who blocked the construction of the Odessa pipeline, Odessa - Brod - Plock... [[It's not the beard. It's Brody.]] ...which, in turn, would guarantee the supply of Azerbaijani oil? Who blocked it? Remember? And do you remember who decided that there would not be a missile shield in Poland, which was a plan of the government of Jarosław Kaczyński and a dead body. Professor Lech Kaczyński, in cooperation with the United States, who guaranteed safety? Who made the decision not to be built? And who demanded that such decisions be made? Vladimir Putin. [[Voice from the room: Tusk.]] [[Voice from the room: 7 years.]] [[Voice from the room: This is what you write about in your application. Read your conclusions.]] [[And what does that have to do with a vote of distrust?]] Donald Tusk's actions, either as Prime Minister or as Head of the European Council by grace, Chancellor Merkel, have always come down to what is good for Germany first and, secondly, for Russia, because the German-Russian strategy is so clear, visible and obvious today as regards the political consequences for the security of our continent, for the security of the European Union. Donald Tusk, when he became head of the European Council, decided to build his programme around energy security. [[And this is about Ziobra. That's not the point. Talk to the point.]] And what are the results of his work in the area of energy security? They've been ruined as far as safety is concerned. [[Gasport.]] Blackmailing Russia. Agreed on Nord Stream 1, Agreed on Nord Stream 2. Do you remember who invited Russia to NATO in the German press? Do you remember who did this? In a word, comparing us to Putin... Think about it. You're saying that at the Ministry of Justice, we haven't been able to realize that this is the Ministry of Justice itself... [[Voice from the room: We did it.]] [[We did it. We made a few people.]] Yes, of course. We've been listening. I heard, of course. I will remind you of what your important minister, colleague, right-hand man Donald Tusk, Minister Graś said. Well, in an honest conversation at the famous Owl and Friends restaurant, very well known to you... [[There Morawiecki...]] [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice.]] ...he said that absolutely, I quote: it is no longer worth the production of drugs - what an expert - only trade in VAT invoices. And he added that it was impossible to create a legal structure that could effectively fight such criminals. Well, I have to tell you, it was possible to create this legal structure. And we created it. When new regulations were created that allowed the VAT mob to be effectively prosecuted, twice as much VAT was paid a month after their adoption into the Polish state budget. [[Because inflation. Soon they'll all be millionaires.]] In 2017, of course, this Sejm - Civic Platform was against, Polish People's Party was against - fortunately, with the votes of the majority of the United Right it pushed through changes in the law that allowed to effectively reduce the operation of the VAT-Mafia. You say you fought economic crime effectively. That's very interesting. You also opposed the introduction of an extended confiscation. It was thanks to these changes in the law that we managed to increase the confiscation of criminal assets twenty times compared to the time when you were responsible for the resort of justice. Smokers. I could quote Donald Tusk's statements, which were very few from his press conferences when he announced a ruthless fight against the Mafia. But of course there are only words left. Today, due to the work of the Ministry of Justice, the Mafia is being prosecuted as well as the drug mafia. The laws we've put in place have allowed dozens of criminal groups to break up that activity. [[And save the children.]] Thanks to this we can protect Polish children from the tragic consequences (Applause), also from death. Every year, in your time, there were dozens of deaths of Polish children due to the use of boosters. Weed. Well, when I became the Attorney General, I asked the question of how many cases concerning usury are conducted annually in the Polish prosecutor's office. It turns out that three were exactly three in 2015. Today only in one investigation in Gdansk... There's an investigation that concerns a thousand properties taken over by loan sharks, and it's all there. possible only because we have introduced a change in legislation that allows us to effectively prosecute loan sharks. [[Applause]] There are dozens of such investigations on a national scale. These investigations allow us to protect the real people you left to the loan shark. [[What do you say?]] All right, all right, all You say you protected Polish children. Only in your day, Poland was at the very end, a disgraceful end, when it comes to the retrievability of alimony. And again, after the changes to the rules introduced in the Ministry of Justice, this situation has changed radically. Because child support has increased by 230%. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Of course, you've restricted access to divorces.]] Not by 2%, not by 5%, not by 15% , only 230%. These are hard numbers. Check it out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to this, Polish children can have financial support, they can grow, because we are We guaranteed it because we took care of it. [[For the kids.]] We have made changes in many areas. The bailiffs. In your day, almost every day, the press reported abuse, the harm that bailiffs did to people, acting almost as organized criminals. It is not only that this is the story of the changes, the law that we have introduced, but also the effectiveness of the bailiff executions that are needed in the case of legitimate, lawful debts which are thus investigated. It's increased from 10%. up to 15% And that's also the real result of our work. The Syndicate Act - I will mention only this - which we have created because of the real law of the jungle, which was in force in the area of activities that were undertaken in the sphere of property related to reprivatization. [[Voice from the room: But time is up.]] [[You still have some time, there'll be a lot of time later.]] Now all of this is civilized and organized. Consumer bankruptcy - this is another law that we have prepared, which allows Poles who are in a dramatic situation of property - e.g. because they fell into a loan loop because of the activities of the loan sharks that you allowed in your time - to get out of this, rebuild a new life. It was this bill that led to this. It is clear that the number of these cases in the courts has increased dramatically because this law works. The Company Restructuring Act - the same. Restructuring advisors, entrepreneurs are very grateful that we give them the chance through this bill created in the Ministry of Justice to rebuild their own company. [[Applause]] Prison service. Well, a few facts, maybe two facts, I'll limit myself to two, which are sufficiently eloquent and do not require comment. In your time, so-called. Electronic surveillance, which you changed in 2014, was adjudicated about four times a month. Today it's adjudicated 1,400 times. There's a difference. [[Applause]] At the moment, $7.5,000. people are being punished under electronic supervision and this is the highest indicator in Europe. It is a punishment that gives a chance to rehabilitate, which is ten times cheaper than prison punishment and gives a chance of real repression in the case of minor crimes. Because we don't want to put everyone in jail, contrary to your narrative. Yeah, we want those dangerous thugs, even though you want to defend them. But for the smaller ones, we want to find other forms of effective rehabilitation and criminal ailment. But there's another indicator, how meaningful when it comes to prison. In your day, 36%. The prisoners were working. Today, 86% work prisoners who are capable of work. [[Applause]] [[Excellent.]] It didn't fall off the moon, it's the result of our work, the laws prepared at the Ministry of Justice. I will no longer mention the numerous laws that concern child protection, protection against paedophiles, the ban on taking children only because a loving family is not in the best material situation. Because instead of picking up the kids, we gave them 500+. But we have also legally banned children from receiving them in such cases. I will not mention the fight against illegal adoptions that have been introduced by us. But the protection of children is our priority and is reflected in a lot of regulations that have been introduced into Polish law in the meantime thanks to our work. I could also mention numerous laws that have entered into force, always with your opposition, almost always with your opposition, such as extending the right to defend the necessary, punishing the twisting of counters, which is very bad for Poles. But it is also about the innovative solutions mentioned here, some of the best in the world, related to the fight against domestic violence, violence mostly against women and children. These solutions weren't prepared by you, they were prepared by us. And these are the solutions developed and prepared at the Ministry of Justice. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] You're attacking the Justice Fund. I understand you're attacking. You to the Justice Fund transferred about PLN 1.5 million in your day. We transfer 10 times more, and even 15 times more. [[For Solidarna Poland, I think.]] This is expressed in 305 legal aid points that have been created throughout the country. There were no such points in your time. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In 305 places, victims who cannot afford lawyers can come and obtain professional legal assistance. Just like I used to have the honor of sleeping together. The Gosiewiski Pass opens the entrance to the legal professions, to the profession of lawyer, legal counsel, so now I am proud that thanks to the Justice Fund we have created real free help for the victims in Poland. [[Applause]] [[For the activists of Solidarna Polska.]] Dear Marshal, Due to the passage of time, I cannot address all the issues raised at the time of the speakers. There's been a lot of demagogy here. Most of this demagogue was about the courts, because you want to create the impression that in your day these courts were working well. That is an obvious lie. In your time as well as in the previous SLD-PSL coalition, the courts have systematically acted worse. You didn't have the guts to take the judicial reform. We had that courage, but instead of helping us, you were throwing sand all the time. You put a stick in your spokes and tried to interrupt, if you failed to get it on the democratic path, you felt that you would carry it out through the European Commission with the blackmails I was talking about at the outset. [[Seven minutes out of time.]] You are a party which sets itself the goal of coming to power, even at the expense of the basic interests of the Polish state, because you are blind to the Polish national interest, to the Polish state's right and responsibility for the state is not your domain. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u433	I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Prime Minister, hang in there, because it's an ungrateful role now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Not further than 2 days ago I was still in Davos and there is Ukraine on everyone's lips, of course, but everyone is also talking about Poland. I have to tell you that many people are asking me how it is actually with Poland, because we hear that Poland has shown great solidarity towards its neighbours, its Ukrainian friends, has adopted 3 million, 2 million Ukrainians under Polish roofs. How does it feel if you have such good budgetary results, you have sustainable public finances? I have participated in many economic debates. How it is that today it turns out that it is Poland that can really guide policy towards Ukraine, inspires Germany, inspires France to do the right thing, you will probably admit the right policy towards Ukraine, it seems so. On the other hand, there are such voices that Poland is separated from Europe, Poland has poor economic performance and these voices are coming from your opposition. I'll tell you, I was embarrassed. I was ashamed for you guys, for the fact that all the time you're going to Brussels, to Davos, you're sipping that propaganda in different places. [[And you're stealing.]] You're sipping untruths, putting everything in a curved mirror. And Poland really needs unity today, Poland needs cohesion because we are at an exceptional time. We have an outside enemy, an enemy who attacked our neighbor, and you're looking for an internal enemy. Today you have found your enemy in Minister Ziobra, and the only enemy, as you know perfectly well, is the enemy in the Kremlin because it is the enemy. [[Applause]] [[I think it's more like you.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is the enemy who wants to take our freedom, our independence and enslave us again. Ladies and gentlemen! There also, especially in Brussels, there is another dissonance such as the one connected with the actions of the Minister of Justice. I do not know if you are following the results of the European auditor, the results of OLAF. This is an institution that checks for irregularities. [[Voice from the room: Yes, about Czarnecki.]] It's concrete, it's checking the irregularities, what's the level of corruption, where there's financial irregularities. Are you following this or not? [[Yes, Czarnecki.]] Because the fact that OLAF's autumn score is four times better than the EU average doesn't seem to you to notice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[That's the truth.]] And that's specific. Why is this happening? You might also consider that the action of the prosecution also leads to a reduction of such irregularities, because, indeed, when I talk in Brussels, it is noted. [[There are no irregularities, because there is no European money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u435	Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u436	This is seen and appreciated. And that's also due to the Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Next item. There was this charge here - and I think he is one of the main charges against the Minister of Justice related to the national reconstruction programme. [[Voice from the hall: A billion gold punishments, Prime Minister.]] [[If you have that kind of land, what's a billion?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, sometimes I wonder what kind of absurd fumes can still be moved if this part of the room has been voted against by the KPO. [[Applause]] You didn't vote for me. I didn't see your hands up a year ago. [[What about Ziobro?]] ...and I wonder if I'll see the next vote. [[It was Ziobro who didn't vote.]] Solidarna Polska will vote in favour of KPO. And then what do you say? [[Voice from the hall: But she didn't vote.]] How do you explain this to your constituents? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Wrong argument.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow countrymen! This is exactly the kind of contradiction that we're dealing with. It is precisely the opposition that today accuses the Minister of Justice that it is blocking the National Reconstruction Programme, the same opposition, will not vote in favour of the law fully accepted by the European Commission. The European Commission looked at this law, which you presented to the President, and stated that it was the gateway to KPO. [[You're the only one who's said that for now.]] How do you explain this to your constituents? Dear voters of the Civic Platform, ask these questions to your Members (Applause). [[Voice from the room: Hypocrites.]] Ask these questions, as we have just negotiated a national reconstruction programme, we have concluded negotiations on milestones. [[Show me your property statement.]] I would like to say to your House that next Thursday, 2 June, the President of the European Commission will come here for the signing of milestones related to KPOs. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that Donald Tusk is not very fond of the Minister of Justice... [[Voice from the room: There's Donald.]] ...but I am surprised that much more sensitive words could be found with Mr Putin, towards President Putin than with the Minister of Justice, Minister of Government of the Republic of Poland. Aren't you ashamed? Tusk and Putin? [[Applause]] [[And that's a shame.]] [[If Ziobro's zero, you're below zero.]] Yes, High Izbo, today very many words This is where the rule of law fell, isn't it? The rule of law. I would like to say very clearly: in your time there was no rule of law, that was then no rule of law. [[Applause]] [[There was poverty.]] It was then Neumann, then it was Milewski. Do you remember shooting miners at the Jastrzębska Coal Company? [[Stop it.]] Remember the fork job? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the Neumann rule, let us remind this web page. The Neumann rule we're fighting, and I'm about to prove it. [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice.]] [[Put it all on your wife.]] I know you're in pain. Well, the Neumann rule is that the judge will give the judgment. Remember that Neumann rule? Do you remember Judge Milewski's rule? [[A bowl of rice?]] Well, Judge Milewski's rule is that if Donald Tusk calls, he'll have to refer the case to one judge or another. Remember that phone call? [[Voice from the room: Independent courts.]] Today, during the reign of Minister Ziobra, it is the machine drawing which the judge is to decide which judge decides the case (Applause) and not Judge Milewski. Shame on you, shame on you now, of course. [[Voice from the room: Of course. Ha, ha, ha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, indeed, the situation of our homeland towards the outside enemy is unique. And you, instead of seeking certain decks of consent, are still trying to report to Brussels. When we fight for it... [[Unbelievable.]] ...so that the sanctions on Russia are as devastating as possible, you are running for sanctions against Poland. Disgraceful. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] [[It's your Orbán blocking them.]] This was the case, for example, in the resolution voted for by your Members in the European Parliament. This was the case in many resolutions voted for by the Members of the Civic Platform in the European Parliament. [[These are facts.]] And those are the facts, sir. [[The fact is, no one knows how much money you have.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, throw away this crooked mirror, throw away this lie, throw away the manipulations you're still using. On a good note, we can say that today we see clearly that we are on an increasingly better path in terms of the ability to absorb EU funds and the lowest possible level of corruption, which is appreciated in the European Commission, I can show it to you. It was in your day that these indicators were much worse. [[They look and they don't believe.]] [[Voice from the room: Statement.]] High Izbo! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, The great thinker said there are two kinds of corruption in the law. One when the people or people do not do the law - he said the people - and the other if the law itself is corrupted. But if he were to be moved into modern times, he would see another corruption in the Third Republic. [[It's a herb.]] [[A voice from the Bankster room.]] Do you know how corrupt this is? The corruption lies in the fact that the elites of the Third Republic did not perceive gross injustice and did nothing to eliminate this injustice. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Look who's talking.]] And it was this corruption that we challenged, we threw gloves, and so did the Minister. The minister you're trying to cancel. But you will not succeed, you will not succeed because there is law and justice behind it, and also the will of Poles to fight injustice. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u437	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote at noon. 19. [[But they can still withdraw their application.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 44 hours 19 min 06]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u438	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 200th anniversary of Wanda Malczewska's birth, print No 2305. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned agenda items are: - Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, prints 2276 and 2281, i.e. point 19. - Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the act on the Copernicus Academy, prints No 2273 and 2293, i.e. point 20. - Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Investments in the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws, prints No 2272 and 2288, i.e. point 21. - Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws, prints No 2274 and 2286, i.e. point 22. will be discussed at the next session of the Sejm. I would like to inform you that the third reading of the following draft laws: - amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and certain other laws, prints No 2121, 2277 and 2277-A, i.e. Step 3. - on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises in Poland State Railways, prints No.204, 2280 and 2280-A, i.e. Step 4. - on the amendment of the law - Construction law and certain other laws, prints No. 2245, 2279 and 2279-A, i.e. Step 6. - amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, prints Nos 2133, 2187 and 2178-A, i.e. Point 8. - to change the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw, prints No. 2246, 2289 and 2289-A, i.e. Point 9. will be held at the next session of the Sejm. There's a formal conclusion. There you go, Mr Boris Budka, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u439	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years ago, a film was made, people of honor. Today, in the debate, you recorded the second part of it - people without honor. [[Applause]] What you have presented, especially you, Prime Minister Morawiecki, are the Himalayas of hypocrisy. You have in your government a man who called you a traitor, a salesman of Polish sovereignty (Applause), voted against you with 20 guys from your own group and did not want money for Poland. And today Prime Minister Morawiecki goes out and defends him like independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u440	(PL) Mr President, I would like to make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u441	My friends, there are limits to hypocrisy and hypocrisy. [[Game in the O.R.]] You'd think you'd be at that border by now...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u442	Mr, calmly, well, you are not in session.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u443	...but you've crossed the bottom. And as far as you can say that someone is nothing, you, Prime Minister, are... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But this is an electoral agitation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u444	Mr President, there was no formal proposal. You abused the rules that Marshal Kidawa-Błońska was talking about at that point. Let's keep an eye on the rules. This was not a formal conclusion, Mr. President. I'm warning you about that. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill on the termination of the Agreement on multilateral settlement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocol on the amendment of the Agreement on multilateral settlement in transfer rubles and the Statute of that Bank, drawn up in Moscow on 23 November 1977, and the Protocol on the amendment of the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963 (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990), drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2248. We're voting. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft law in print no. 2248? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who doesn't it work with? 454 Members voted. 451 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill. Does anyone else have a card problem? We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the committee draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Sejm conducted the first and second reading of the draft resolution. We proceed to the third reading. We vote on the whole draft resolution. Who is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2259? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the national system of producer registers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2284-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! One amendment was submitted to the contested law, in print No. 2284, during the second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered this amendment at today's meeting and proposes that it be rejected, while the whole of the law is proposed to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u446	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2284. The Commission also presents an amendment on which we will vote first. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 197 - for, 256 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who's in favour of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 315 - for, 137 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications and certain other laws. We would like to refer to item 2 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: The additional committee report shall be in print No 2271-A. We proceed to the third reading. Marshal Terlecki would like to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I withdraw amendments 24th and 25th. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u448	Thank you. I would very much like to ask Mr Krzysztof July to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u449	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to present an additional report in the context of these two important draft laws. One of them is presented by the President of the Republic of Poland and the other by Members of Law and Justice. These two draft laws were aimed at bringing the Disciplinary Chamber to an end in the Supreme Court and replacing it with the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. This law also provides a way of creating the composition of this newly created Chamber. An important aspect of these amendments is also that the test of independence and impartiality of judges has been extended to judicial and administrative proceedings for which final decisions have already been taken. [[Christopher, now they're being withdrawn.]] But I'm talking about the committee report. On the other hand, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I propose, High Izbo, that the Sejm reject the motion to reject the bill. 51 amendments were tabled. On behalf of the committee, I propose amendments: 2nd, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 13th, 17th, 18th, 21st, 22nd, 24th, 25th, 31st and 46th. The way in which the vote will take place is presented in print No 2271-A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u450	Let me just remind you that the head of the club has withdrawn amendments 24th and 25th. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2271. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 13 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority proposal and the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a different wording to the title of the Act. This minority proposal brings together the 6th minority proposal and the 11th amendment and the 31st minority proposal and the 48th amendment. The Commission requests that amendments be rejected. We will vote on them together. We're voting. If you are in favour of accepting minority proposals 1, 6, and 31 and amendments 1, 11, 48, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 205 for, 231 against, 19 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 435 - for, 5 - against, abstained from 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the second minority proposal, which brings together minority proposals of 14, 15, 17, 18, 21st to 23rd and 25th to 30th. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 3, 4, 5, 9 to 11, 16, 19, 20 and 24 and amendments 3, 25 to 32, 35., 37 to 42, 44 and 47. We're voting. Those who are in favour of accepting minority proposals 2, 14, 15, 17, 18, 21st to 23rd and 25th to 30th, will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the third amendment, with amendments 27, 30, 32... from 37 to 42, 44 and 47. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments from 4 to 10, 13, 17, 20 to 22, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 43., 45 and 46. We're voting. Who is in favour of amendments 3, 27, 30, 32, 37 to 42, 44 and 47? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the third minority proposal, which brings together minority proposals 16 and 24. We vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 4, 5 and 6. We're voting. Who is in favour of minority proposals 3, 16 and 24? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, against -442, 11 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 212 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 229 - for, 211 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 4th minority proposal, which brings together minority proposals 5 and 9 to 11. We vote on them together. Who is in favour of the minority proposals 4, 5 and 9 to 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 11 - for, 419 - against, 24 abstained. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 228 - for, 214 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 206 - against, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course you do. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's working, it's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 202 - against, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It works. I'm the only one who's faster than the razor. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 239 for, 203 against, 13 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 7th minority proposal, which brings together the 32nd minority proposal. Their adoption will render amendments 12, 13 and 49. We're voting. Who's in favour of the minority's proposals 7 and 32. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] We need to push a little harder, ladies and gentlemen, it's working. [[I'll tell you, it's a touch screen, your marshal. You can't push harder.]] Touchable, but you also need to have the right touch, Member. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 230 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 12th amendment with which the 49th amendment is combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobjectability of the 13th amendment. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 12 and 49? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 229 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 241 - for, 200 - against, abstained 13. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 8th minority proposal and the 14th amendment. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 8th minority proposal and the 14th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 167 - for, 231 - against, 57 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We are voting on the 15th amendment, which brings together the 50th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 16. to 18. We're voting. Who's in favour of Amendments 15 and 50? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 231 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 16th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 17th amendment. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 16th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 167 - for, 231 - against, 57 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 239 for, 203 against, 13 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 18th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 18th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 230 - for, 212 - against, withdrawed 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 12th minority proposal and the 19th amendment. This minority proposal is linked to 33. the minority proposal and the 51st amendment. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that amendments be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from the 20th to the 22nd. We're voting. Who is in favour of minority proposals 12 and 33 and amendments 19 and 51? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 211, 231 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We are voting on the 20th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 211 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 21st Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 21st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 211 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 22nd Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 22nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 236 - for, 203 - against, 13 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We vote on 13. a minority proposal and the same 23rd amendment. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 13th? the minority proposal and the 23rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 169 - for, 231 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. Amendment 24 has been withdrawn. Amendment 25 was also withdrawn. We vote on the 26th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 26th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was for, 439 against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 28th amendment with which Amendment 29. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments 28th and 29th? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 for, 231 against, 13 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 31st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 31st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 231 - for, 209 - against, 13 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 33rd amendment with which amendments 34 and 43. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 35 and 36 and minority proposals 19 and 20. We're voting. Who is in favour of amendments 33, 34 and 43? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 - for, 240 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 19th minority proposal with which there are 20. minority request. We vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 35th amendment. We're voting. Who's in favour of the minority proposals 19th and 20th? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 202 - for, 230 - against, abstained 21. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 35th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will make the 36th amendment futile. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 35th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 210 - for, against - 230, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 36th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 36th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against - 438, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 45th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the 46th amendment futile. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 45th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 208 - for, 240 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 46th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 46th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, abstained 13. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2271, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 208 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2291-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u451	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present an additional report by the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, prints No 2268, 2291 and 2291-A. 12 amendments were tabled during the second reading. Two of them, 3rd and 11th, should be voted together. The Commission recommends adopting Amendment 9 and rejecting the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u452	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very, very important vote ahead of us, which is the next, if you can say so, a nice step when it comes to repairing the Polish healthcare system. So far we have taken a few steps, which provide very serious guarantees that this system will develop in the coming years primarily in a calm atmosphere of providing funding, which will be dedicated to the health of Poles. Let me remind you that we started with a bill that said that the outlays are going to be 6%. GDP. These guarantees were then increased to 7% GDP. In the next step, we began to regulate the guarantees that concern salaries in the healthcare system. Last year was the first step. It may be worth recalling that last year, when we discussed these issues, there were protests around the Sejm. At the moment these conversations are conducted in a completely different atmosphere, an atmosphere of social tranquillity... [[Voice from the hall: Also last year.]] ...and that's what today's bill is, today's vote. Here we are taking the next step, which is to provide these guarantees to our doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, because this is a very comprehensive solution. These guarantees, first of all, make the medical profession an attractive professional choice, and this will encourage you to make such a decision. And secondly, we also managed to stop the flow of doctors or medical professionals abroad and give them guarantees that encourage them to work here in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank you very much for the fact that this year this discussion with the social partners - I am talking about both the representatives of chambers and the representatives of trade unions - but also the discussion in committee - where, let me remind you, there were 29 votes in favour of the project at first reading, and only one abstention - were the voices that show that this priority, i.e. the government's increasing resources for health, is a priority widely accepted for which I thank you. I'm also hoping for a unanimous vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u454	Thank you, Minister. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2291. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 212 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 206 - for, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment with which Amendment 11. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3 and 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5. to 8. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 6 to 8. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220-for- 230-against-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 7 and 8 irrelevant. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 212 - for, 225 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2291, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 445 - for, 1 - against, with a hold of 7. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy on the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners. The additional committee report shall be in print 2292-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report by the Joint Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy on the Government's draft law on the next additional annual payment for pensioners in 2022. The committee's report is contained in print No 2292-A. At its current meeting, the Sejm referred the draft law contained in print No 2292 to the Joint Committee on Social and Family Policy and to the Committee on Senior Policy for consideration of the proposed amendment. At today's meeting, the committees considered the amendment and recommended that it be rejected and that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u456	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2292. The committees also present minority proposals, as well as an amendment in the additional report, on which we will vote first. We are voting on the 1st minority proposal, which brings together minority proposals 2 and 3. We vote on them together. We're voting. Who is in favour of the minority's proposals from 1 to 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 198 - for, 237 - against, abstained 19. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 4th minority proposal, which brings together the 5th minority proposal. We vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendment. We're voting. Who is in favour of minority proposals 4 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 224 - for, 231 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Whoever is in favour of the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 222 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. If you are in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2292, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 426, 19 - against, the 6. The Sejm passed a law on the next in 2022 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the National Defence Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 2263, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 191 - for, 233 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus sent the bill to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Home Affairs for consideration. We're voting. If you are in favour of accepting a motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no 2290, you will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. In - 11, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission for consideration. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice - Zbigniew Ziobro. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a negative opinion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 224, against - 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra, in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[To jail!]] We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 200th anniversary of Wanda Malczewska's birth (prints 2294 and 2305). I ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Marek Suski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the committee's report on the resolution on Wanda Malczewska's 200th birthday. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission held a discussion on the resolution. Legislative amendments have been tabled, which have been supported by all. No other amendments were tabled. The applicant emphasized the great merits of Wanda Malczewska, who was a great Polish patriot, teacher and person of faith. She has always supported the movement of freedom against Russian captivity. It was appreciated in the time of the Second Republic. In the times of the Polish People's Republic she was forgotten and even Pope Benedict XVI recognized her heroicity as a great virtue of Wanda Malczewska. In the vote, the vast majority of Members supported the resolution, no one opposed it, a few abstentions. Thank you very much. Please support this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u458	Thank you. Does anyone want to speak on this resolution? I can't see. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2305 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 334 Members voted. 297 - for, 7 - against, abstained 30. The Sejm passed a resolution on the 200th anniversary of Wanda Malczewska's birth. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 points: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Individuals' Tax, - Information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the international situation in the face of Russian aggression against Ukraine and in the context of meetings of the President of the Republic of Poland in Brussels and Berlin on 7-8 February. and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the United States on 1-5 February this year. with allies; - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens about the point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Individuals Tax, tabled by the Parliamentary Circle Polska 2050. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 223 - for, 230 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax, tabled by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 219 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal to inform the Foreign Minister about the international situation in the face of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, this is not the time. Allow me to read the results of the vote. 447 Members voted. 220 for, 227 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 a.m. 20 min 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u459	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on social financing for business projects and assistance to borrowers (print No 2269). I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the justification for the bill. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, please, to move the talks into the cockroaches. You're welcome, Minister. Try to get through.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u460	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u461	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really asking you to move the conversations into the clouaries. Please, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are presenting to the High House consists of two large components implementing EU law, but also including the implementation of the Prime Minister's announcements on aid to borrowers. First thing: the law refers to the regulation of the so-called. crowdfunding. Here it is worth explaining that the regulation resulting from EU law and implementing it into national legislation does not apply to all principles of crowdfunding, but only so-called. equity and loan crowdfunding, which is the most complicated one. EU legislation requires Member States to regulate crowdfunding, which consists either in acquiring shares in a entity offering its shares or shares, or in providing the entity seeking funding for a loan by a retail investor. Why did the European Commission consider it appropriate to regulate this issue? There is a risk to retail investors, often consumers who are not professional participants in trading, which involves investing their own private money in risky undertakings. The regulation therefore regulates the granting of approval for the financing of such projects, while Member States have been required to regulate certain individual issues in the Act. Hence, when she looks at this bill, she seems pretty blank, but she's a blank, because that's what EU rules say. Most of the issues are covered by the EU regulation. What we regulate at the level of the national law are issues of access to professional secrecy, these are issues of supervision of KNF and the possibility for KNF to punish entities that do not comply with the law and do not provide sufficient protection for individual investors. Thus, on the one hand, this regulation irritates, improves the increasingly popular crowdfunding mechanism, on the other hand provides adequate protection for individual investors, i.e. consumers, so that they are not exposed to the loss of their private money. An important change that we are still introducing in this project - it will come into force from 10 November 2023 - is to raise the threshold to which a prospectus will not have to be drawn up, and it is enough to draw up a memorandum. At this point, this is the threshold of EUR 2.5 million, which will be raised to EUR 5 million. This is a regulation that applies throughout the European Union. This is a very deregulatory issue, entrepreneurs expect it, so we raise this threshold twice. The second pillar of this bill is, as I mentioned, helping borrowers. Firstly, this project, actually from the very beginning, and it was consulted a few weeks ago, contained issues of the designation of a replacement of WIBOR and the procedure for its designation. And here's a few words. I have spoken of this in the High House in the case of answers to current questions, but it will not hurt to repeat them. The question of how to designate a replacement for WIBOR, as I have already mentioned, is how to implement EU rules. The WIBOR replacement is in principle applicable to contracts that are already in force. Therefore, it is the indicator that intervenes, although it interferes here is a word for growth - it is important that the economic value of the contract remains the same - but nevertheless it interferes with the contracts already concluded. This bill regulates only and until the procedure for determining the replacement of WIBOR, but does not indicate what replacement it will be. He will be established only during negotiations with the banking sector, with the GPW Benzmark, with the NBP, with the KNF and with the BFG, and only then will be given by way of a regulation of the Council of Ministers. Now, on the other hand, we are merely setting out a formal procedure for its designation. What substance he's going to be, it's probably going to be settled in the next few weeks. A separate issue is the alternative indicator to WIBOR. It is valid for contracts that will only be concluded. And here the procedure for its conclusion is not regulated because it is not determined by the administrative decision of the government. This is already the decision of the GPW Benzmark, which is an entity for this purpose. This, of course, also takes place in consultation with the sector, but it is not necessary for this to happen. There is already a regulation by the Council of Ministers. What is important is that we will issue an alternative indicator and a substitute in two different procedures, and I want to make it very clear that this indicator will not change the fact that it will be the same. That's our intention. We want it to be the same indicator. On the other hand, the inclusion of existing agreements and future contracts simply requires the establishment of these two procedures. That's what I'd like to make clear. At the same time, in the draft law we include a certain incentive for the banking sector, but also for the GPW Benzmark. We hope that the GPW Denmark will also feel very much obliged to participate in this important mission expected by borrowers. In addition, if, in the coming months, there were no replacement and an alternative indicator for WIBOR, then it is possible to designate the so-called. an emergency indicator. It will be a POLONIA indicator that develops the NBP. And this is a backup plan, Plan B. We hope - and here we would like the hot request that we repeat in our discussions with the banking sector, but also with the GPW Benzmark - to make this indicator the best possible for it to be chosen by consensus. The point is, first of all, to make it as beneficial as possible to borrowers, which is important to us, second, to allow the banking sector to remain stable, and only somewhere at the end, to make it comfortable for the GPW Benzmark and public administration. We hope that this process will be carried out in the same way. This is the first point that the Prime Minister spoke about in terms of support for borrowers. The second point that we are introducing in this law is a credit vacation. This was the point that was most discussed both during short but very fruitful public consultations, as well as within the government, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. We want this credit holiday to include contracts concluded for our own housing purpose, and that's the one condition we're introducing. On the other hand, we believe, and this we will probably stick to in further parliamentary work, that it is not justified to introduce further conditions, whether it is the income of the family or the size of the apartment. Such conditions could lead to a situation where we disable, for example. Multi-child families or families, which, for various reasons, seem to be on paper, do not need such help, and their life situations are different. Therefore, we would not want such further reasons to tighten up the introduction. Credit holidays will include gold loans, which is worth emphasising, and can be applied to two contracts per month in the third and fourth quarters of the year and in one month per quarter of next year. In total, these are the eight instalments that will be postponed at the end of the loan period, and this loan period will not be subject to further interest, will not be subject to additional charges, i.e. the transfer of the instalment without any additional cost to the borrowers. In this element, it is very important that we are helping those families who, for the moment, need help and relief from their credits very quickly for various reasons. The last thing we're annoying about is the Creditor Support Fund. Firstly, we introduce the possibility of electronic application. As I have already said many times in the High House, we still believe... Although here the opposition also speaks very much about the possibilities of support from the Creditors Support Fund, for which I thank you. It is worth knowing about this possibility for borrowers. We really think there are a lot of borrowers who already meet the conditions for this assistance, but simply because of the lack of knowledge of borrowers and, too, there is nothing to hide, probably because banks do not fully feel obliged to inform - and it is in this project we also regulate - customers about this possibility of assistance, this fund is still being used at a low level. On the other hand, given that there may be a great interest in the use of this support, we are introducing a solution in which the bank also has an additional contribution of PLN 1400 million by the end of this year. A total of PLN 2 billion will be parked in the fund this year to support borrowers in need of assistance. Secondly, if it turns out that this amount is insufficient, we are introducing a very rapid procedure for increasing this contribution so as to cover all the borrowers in need and eligible for this aid. It is also worth noting that, unlike credit holidays, this is also partly non-refundable aid. If the borrower regularly pays the instalments, 1/3 of these instalments may be surrendered. So it is aid in 1/3 non-refundable, which increases the attractiveness of this solution. And the third point I've already mentioned is the replacement WIBOR. Credit holidays are ad hoc aid, the Credit Support Fund is targeted aid to the most victims or the most in need of assistance, while the WIBOR replacement is a system aid, because it is important to think about what is next, which is after 1 January, which in the following years. And I think that this system aid will be the most important in the long term, i.e. the development of an indicator that will, firstly, reflect the processes that are taking place in the banking sector, but will also guarantee, as far as possible in the world of changing interest rates, the stability of borrowers. So that each of these forms of aid goes to people in a slightly different situation, but together they consist of a comprehensive programme in our view. And things regulated in individual articles, but in accordance with the principle of presenting as comprehensive a project as possible... I would also like to stress that in this project we are implementing EU rules to improve the operation of investment firms, investment funds, we are introducing the possibility of communicating electronically to clients of these funds with funds, but we are also removing some excess obligations from these investment funds and at the request of the KNF in connection with the situation and war in Ukraine we are introducing the competences of KNF in the field of cybersecurity, i.e. e.g. granting KNF the power to take action to address the security risks of ICT systems, to enable KNF to verify the shares of issuers' companies - that is very important in the context of the real implementation of sanctions that are imposed on European countries - or to introduce an exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy in so far as it is possible to provide and update information which is such information by the entities indicated in the Act. It is also a matter of preventing KNF from hiding from bank secrecy when KNF takes action to prevent the avoidance and avoidance of sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation. So much for the most important assumptions. I'm sure there'll be time at the committee meeting and the subcommittee to look into it in detail. At this moment, I ask the High House to allow further investigation of this law in the pages of the High Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u462	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! The purpose of the government's draft Social Financing Act for business projects and helping borrowers with print no. 2269 is firstly to increase the alternative opportunities for entrepreneurs to raise capital, alternative to bank loans or the issuance of debt securities, i.e. those traditional sources. It is about capital for investments acquired in the form of social funding platforms. This applies to small and medium-sized enterprises, and above all to start-ups, i.e. the smallest innovative companies, but also to large companies that raise capital from the issue of securities. This objective is intended to be achieved by the implementation of two Directives and five Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which simplify information requirements and documents related to the issue of securities, increase supervision of KNF's financial platforms and protect the retail investor. There are the methods that the legislator intends to achieve. In addition, the Minister very precisely, for which I thank you, presented the provisions of the legislation contained in this Act. And the second very important objective of this project is to introduce a mechanism to help borrowers in view of the increase in mortgage rates and the increase in monthly installments of housing loans. The draft law introduces the possibility of temporarily suspending the mortgage credit agreement for 2 months during the quarter, and this concerns the period from 1 July 2022 to the end of the year and 1 month during the quarter from 1 January 2023 to the end of 2023. During this time, the borrower will only pay property insurance fees. An application for suspension of the performance of the contract may be submitted electronically. The credit holiday will reduce the annual cost of credit service by about 1/3 in 2022 and 2023. The value of the support is estimated at about PLN 4 billion. The amount of the Creditor Support Fund will be increased by PLN 1400 million to PLN 2 billion at the end of this year. The method of calculating contributions to the Creditor Support Fund will also change. They will be proportional to the gross carrying amount of the bank's housing loan portfolio if the instalment exceeds 50% income at the end of the quarter for which payment is due. A new indicator will also be introduced, a substitute for WIBOR, a loan interest rate which will also translate into support, estimated by the legislator, about PLN 1 billion per year. As I mentioned, the project contains the necessary solutions, quite detailed, specialized. We'll be working on them at the Public Finance Committee. According to Law and Justice, the government project submitted to us in print 2269 deserves further work and support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u463	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There were supposed to be four aid actions. How many press conferences were there with these new slides about old recipes? So? Nothing, actually. How does a party that changes the expression of family life through all cases want to help families who have been deceived by President Glapiński? Nothing, actually. In fact, the law we are talking about is the implementation of the directive and it has nothing to do with the problems of Polish families paying mortgage loans. PiS has added credit vacation to this law, and basically has made a copy-paste of the COVID Act, and contrary to what the Minister said, the recipe is so ill-written that it is not actually known whether these holidays will consist in the fact that the capital will be reduced or not reduced, and in the next month high interest will be paid. In addition, the government wants to help the krezus, which means it wants to give credit vacations to those who have 5, 10 apartments and bought more apartments. Do you really have to help such citizens? Isn't there any more needy? The holiday recipe has one more flaw, and in fact it can be dangerous for borrowers, but PiS doesn't care at all. In fact, it's all about propaganda. What's the second action? 'Cause it was supposed to be four. The second action is an amendment to the Civil Platform Act of 2015. The Ministry of Finance's accompanying ministers probably remember that, because they certainly gave her an opinion. Once before, President Andrzej Duda used this bill, pretending to help the franchise. President Duda at least powdered the bill, changed the terms a little bit, adapted it to reality. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Morawiecki did not even consider the galloping inflation. The effect is that those earning the national average will never meet the income requirement, while those earning the minimum wage did not meet the requirements at all, i.e. They didn't have a credit rating. In fact, it's hard to tell who the Creditor Support Fund is supposed to help, completely out of line with today's conditions. So I suggest: before you make banks pay millions to 2 billion, you have to change the terms of the aid, otherwise this loan will still be dead. He's really not dead because the applications were made on paper, not on the Internet. The third and fourth actions are not really there. Prime Minister Morawiecki lied to us as usual. The benchmark, which is supposed to be this third action, is realization. so-called. a benchmarking regulation. Poland just has to do it. Until now, KNF has been pretending to have done it right. But he didn't do well, we all know that, the Prime Minister himself confirmed it. That's why you just have to do it. The fourth action was supposed to be really for the banks. It was supposed to be a bank relief fund, but I'm guessing the banks didn't need it, they have such liquidity that they don't need it, and the Prime Minister backed out of it. Since this law is really in the part that is supposed to help borrowers, it is toothless, I urge the High House to adopt the bill of the Civic Coalition Club. The project is simple. The project only helps those who have taken credit for their own apartment, to a place that provides them with their own housing needs. Rata will not be higher than it was in December Ub. This is the way it's supposed to be for 24 months. During this time, the galloping inflation that we owe to PiS and most of it. The National Bank of Poland... The war, of course, contributed to this. During these 24 months - a instalment at December ub. This year banks will have profits of more than 20 billion PLN and will be able to cope with this. This is real help, not propaganda. Because propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, Poles won't eat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u465	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u466	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2.5 thousands. PLN - that's what today is for a small two-room apartment bought on loan for 25 years. That's almost half as much as this instalment was in September. For millions of Polish families this change means daily fear for basic security, about where they will live. Law and Justice have really been ignoring this problem for a few months, Minister. We have listened to Mr Suski, who said that credit has to be paid, Mrs Rafalska, who advised a galloping increase in the amount of instalments to wait out. Now - yes, now we finally have a government proposal on the table, this is a few pages attached to the Social Investment Financing Act. The government proposes a credit holiday and a change in the calculation of instalments. WIBOR, a discretionary indicator set by the presidents of the largest banks, is to be replaced by more realistic indicators. These proposals, let us be honest and honest, are not bad proposals, but they are not enough proposals. The credit holiday will mean only that the credit will not have to be repaid now, but it will have to be repaid later. Meanwhile, this absurd increase in the amount of instalments, with which Polish families are faced, is simply unfair. We are one of the really few countries in Europe where loans based mainly on variable interest rates are offered. For a good cause, it means that families, taking loans, don't know exactly how much they're going to have to pay back. This also means that all the risks, including uninjured risks, unforeseen risks such as war, pandemic or raw material crisis, all of this risk is on the side of families who take credit. So the family can either gain or lose on a variable's foot. The PiS proposal of this mechanism does not affect at all. The bank can only make money on all of this, and your proposal will also not significantly reduce it. Let me remind you that during the first quarter of this year the net profits of the banking sector amounted to more than PLN 6 billion - 140% more than last year. That is why we need a solution that will reduce credit costs for ordinary people. And this solution has been on the table for a few weeks now. This is the solution reported by the Left. We want to freeze WIBOR to 2019 levels for at least 12 months. It's real help, not temporary relief. Moreover, this solution, unlike yours, Minister, is immune to the suicidal policy of the National Bank of Poland and regular interest rate increases. The most important thing is something else - the state must start a real housing policy. In Poland a whole generation grew up, which had no and will never have any prospects for its own angle than mortgage. The alternative for the less affluent is to rent on the private market, often with roommates to make it cheaper. What about rental prices? The rent prices are knocking us off our feet. The room in Warsaw is more expensive than in Rome, Brussels or Hamburg. Gdansk has the same prices as Berlin. More than 1/3 of the apartments in Poland are overcrowded, and apartments for cheap rent are simply not built. Living+ turned out to be a big disaster. What do local governments do? They're selling out their own municipal stock. In this crisis, not everyone loses because someone makes money - banks, developers and speculators. And this is because the Polish state simply withdrew, washed their hands, left these people to waste, forcing them to borrow themselves, to take unfair, risky loans, because each of us has to live somewhere. And that has to change. Housing as well as education, as well as health it is a sector in which the country must be strongly present. We need solid, large-scale investments in low-rent apartments. Predictable, fair loans, in which it is not so that it is suddenly the ordinary borrower who takes all the risk, and the bank wipes its hands with joy, because it can gain from it. And now that the situation is very pressing, we need quick, simple solutions such as the WIBOR freeze proposed by the Left. We want to work on the proposal of Law and Justice, because the fate of borrowers is the most important thing for us, but at the same time we ask for those who do not have loans, but need housing built by the state and built by local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u468	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are starting work on a government bill on financing social economic enterprises and helping borrowers. Especially this second part of this law is important, so I suggest we start our discussion, presenting my position on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club from presenting what recent research proves. Nearly 1/3 Poles either do not have any savings, or have these savings less than 1 000. PLN, and more than 70% after paying the necessary fees and paying the necessary expenditure on life, there is nothing left, and many are not enough for the first and have to borrow, but only with family or friends. This situation has, of course, deteriorated significantly recently, because as a result of the rising inflation, even prices not only in small, residential shops, but also in large supermarkets have long exceeded the inflation level indicated by the Central Statistical Office, which already reaches close to 13% today. This price increase concerns not some luxury goods, extraordinary but basic foods such as milk, butter, oil, bread, flour or pasta. The real drama begins to look into the eyes, in particular, of those people and families, who, based on the hurrahoptimistic but actually irresponsible statements by President Glapiński about the fact that the economic situation is excellent, that there is no risk of inflation, that the whole world is in debt and borrowed from us, decided to take a housing loan and surprisingly realized that today the loan instalment increased by 50, 70 and sometimes by 100%. In its opinion to this law, the NBP itself acknowledges that the problem of this over-indebtedness or excessive burden resulting from the repayment of loan instalments concerns precisely borrowers who took their loans between 2021 and 2022, namely during the period of the President of Adam Glapiński and the rule of law and justice. So these people did not fall into the trap of over-indebtedness of their own free will, but because the NBP President, PiS-owska Monetary Policy Council and Government Policy, led them into this trap, because the NBP President repeatedly said that he was the President of the NBP, so that, among other things, he would. support government policy. And this is what the government is proposing to these people now. It proposes the following solutions: suspension of loan instalments of four out of six in the next six months of this year and four in the next year. While this first solution can be regarded as a really immediate attempt to help, the second one is much less significant, much less effective. But the common feature of both of these solutions is that this is not a real relief. This is the laying off of burdens for a later time - said the Minister in his statement. The proposals for changing the WIBOR to a new rate are so vague and so uncertain that it is not known whether they will help, whether they will be neutral for borrowers. And it is important - it must be stressed - that it is not the government that offers this proposal, but the European Union that forces the government to change this high rate by its regulation. Therefore, we, the Polish Coalition Club, address the government and address this proposal to Minister Patkowski. Take advantage of the offer we're presenting. It is a real offer of assistance for the indebted, overly high rates of loans of Poles who do not fall into the trap of debt because of their own fault and with anxiety, fear and fear of the near future. We have very concrete proposals: let the banks, at least the state, after all they are leading on the mortgage market, abandon the margin. What problem is it that the owner, who is the State Treasury, who has nationalised them in order to influence the financial policy of these banks, order them to give up the margin for 1.5-2.5 years? Secondly, offer people who want to save at least 10% of their interest bonds. The Prime Minister recently said that they would be interest-bearing at 5,25%. I have a printout from today's Treasure Bonds.pl, there is no such amount. Those mentioned by the Prime Minister are barely interest-bearing at (The Bell) 2%. And the third case, that is, the Belka tax waiver. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u469	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u470	Let's remember what inflation is. This is a situation where there is too much money on the market with insufficient growth in the number of goods and services that can be bought for them. As happened in our case, I hope you already know. Or do you want to go on? You don't know? But in order to reduce inflation, it is either necessary to increase the supply of goods and services, which is rather difficult to just do, or to withdraw part of the money from the market. This one, among other things. is a mechanism for raising interest rates to get people to take fewer credits, and those who have these loans to pay back faster so that they can get rid of these rising instalments more quickly. But now if you're putting in place mechanisms for helping borrowers, you're overcoming the effects of what he's trying to do now - because it's late - to do the CEO of Glapiński. I wanted to ask the Minister: How do you imagine this is going to work? Because it's nothing more than Arthur Dziambor said, like losing weight at McDonald's. Okay, we slept on this inflation, threw a bunch of empty money into the market, and now we have to go on a diet, right? Well, then we'll have a smaller breakfast, lunch, dinner, but not to go to bed hungry - it's good night burgers. It comes down to that. After all, you put a stick in the spokes of your own mechanism, which in this way tries to implement NBP. Look, there's no easy way out of this situation you got us into. If the empty money is released, he doesn't evaporate himself, he doesn't disappear, he needs to be taken off the market somehow. It requires sacrifice, and it's obviously unpleasant. I understand it falls on people who are innocent, as you say here, but there's no other way. Always acting irresponsible rulers end up falling on citizens and you can't miss it, because if we give the borrowers, we're gonna pay for it all, then who's gonna pay for it? Well, those who save money. And they're already in the back all the time, so it's not worth saving. In general, credit should in principle precede savings. We're not doing this because we're releasing a bunch of empty money into banks, and we're also giving them the privilege to flush gold out of the air in the form of a partial reserve, which makes banks de facto, in short, borrow money they don't have. This money is created at the time of lending, so credit can be cheap, because it doesn't cost much. He comes out of nowhere, so this whole system is aimed at increasing this inflation, and the only mechanisms that are trying to stop it, you're just trying to eliminate it with your mechanisms, even though I assume it's motivated by some kind of good will, heart reflexes. How do you imagine this is gonna work?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The rise in interest rates undoubtedly revealed another huge risk in the financial system passed entirely on to citizens. We have a credit system developed for years, unique in principle in any European country. As Poland 2050 from the beginning we are talking about three necessary things, which in these difficult conditions for borrowers urgently need to be done. Firstly, we are talking about realising interest rates, because in fact the European directives since 2018 are saying that interest rates should reflect the actual benchmark for lending money on the market. The Polish WIBOR is very far from the markets at the present time. Secondly, we are talking about these alternative indicators. I'm glad you're doing this. Unfortunately, you are doing this wrong and do not even comply with the EU directive, because what you are proposing will still not reflect the actual level of payment for money in the deposit and credit market. Thirdly, we are talking about the Creditor Support Fund being a derealised fund today, because basically few people can benefit from it, because the cost of living has increased, salaries have increased, loan instalments have increased, and the fund basically reflects the situation from many years ago when people were earning much less, instalments have been much lower, and few can benefit even after losing their jobs from this fund. As Poland 2050, we put forward a concrete proposal for a law, unfortunately it was pushed to committee because the government in the plenary room just wants to talk about its proposals. But we're gonna talk about her. These changes are really necessary, much deeper than what the government is proposing. When it comes to a credit holiday, it's also our law that goes much further. The release from one of the three installments in the quarter doesn't help much. Of course, these changes are needed, but we will want to go further, because what we propose in the bill is still a matter. Of course, we can talk about all the other indicators that will be accompanied by a greater expansion and a proposal for a credit holiday, and we will be very happy to focus on the details. If I were to summarize all this, I would say that the government in a rude way copied Poland's 2050 proposals. Unfortunately, you have done this very badly, and we will try to improve these records by working in the subcommittee. Surely, today's interest rates do not serve to combat inflation or to inhibit the market, because it does not actually have that effect. The whole effort (Bell) of borrowers does not hinder economic growth, we still have, Minister, 200 billion surplus financial resources in the financial market. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u473	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u474	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law presented by the government attracts attention mainly because of the provisions on housing loans, but I think that the latter is extremely important, perhaps even the first part of the project, i.e. the rules on social financing for companies, for entrepreneurs. Minister! I would like to hear from the government how you assess the size of the commercial market, which can be shaped on the basis of these rules. The second question concerns the credit part, housing loans. The question is: Is it really so that the government believes that regardless of who has how much real estate, whether these are apartments intended for residence, or for example. to rent, should have the possibility (Bingle) to take a vacation in the case of all these credit agreements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u475	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The State has an obligation to assist borrowers. Why? Because one of his highest representatives, the constitutional body, which is the President of the National Bank of Poland, publicly informed the public that the state of finance is the best in history, that the rates would not be raised, there was a reservation that it would be so until the end of his term of office. These conditions meant that a large number of people had just decided on mortgage loans. The Lewis project provides that persons whose income exceeds 30% per person per family would be entitled to this assistance from the Creditor Support Fund. On the other hand, the government project (the bell) does not change, it still remains 50. I therefore have a question: In the light of this solution, how many people do the government think will be able to benefit from support today?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Bank of Poland, in its opinion presented to the Members, informs that it welcomes the government's efforts to introduce solutions that would help borrowers overcome, as the bank writes, temporary difficulties in regulating liabilities arising from loans for housing purposes. Well, may these temporary difficulties still be temporary difficulties. At the same time, the opinion states that loans made during the minimum interest rate period represent as much as 21% The whole wallet. Therefore, these loans should be supported as much as possible. I have a question for the Minister: How was the opinion of the National Bank of Poland, which was presented to the Members, taken into account by the government in this project and whether you intend to make any changes after the bank has submitted this opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u479	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, during this discussion, the Prime Minister announced earlier that the WIBOR rate would be abolished. We know very well that this was just a propaganda act, because yet some reference rates, benchmarks must apply. In the draft law, the POLONIA indicator appears, and I have this question: Does the government consider the use of other indicators, such as the WKF financial cost index or the WIRD indicator, and which of these indicators are in line with the European Parliament's BMR regulation, because this is probably an important issue? The second thing, in the bill the amount of PLN 1400 million appears in addition to the Creditors Support Fund. Where does this amount come from and does the government plan to change the rules on which borrowers can use this fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u482	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! President Glapiński said that the probability that the loan instalments will increase will be higher interest rates is zero. The truth is that he simply deceived Poles and those who decided to borrow. Maybe for someone like President Glapiński, the increase in the rate to 4.5% is not much, because he earns 1.1 million PLN a year, but for an average family with children the increase in loan instalments by 1000 PLN are huge problems. And the truth is, your proposals do not solve the problems of borrowers in any way. High prices, huge price increases in shops, especially food, inflation drains the wallets of Poles. Plus huge increases in loan instalments, which really reach for the wallets of Poles, and that is a big problem. Only the truth is, these are your proposals that do not solve the problem in any way, because the Prime Minister behaves (the bell) rather like someone who wants to sell credit...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u483	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u484	...and doesn't say what's written in small print. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u485	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u486	I'm gonna talk about what's not there and why it's not there. The banks in which you have, the Treasury, large shares, charge early repayment of the loan. Minister, you didn't do it. 1% from early repayment of the loan. And the second sin that you have on your conscience all this time is the length of waiting for the mortgage entry. Warsaw - 1.5 years. My intervention with the Minister of Justice unfortunately gave nothing. During this period, the borrower pays a higher commission. You've also slept through this period. Case concerning the possibility of applying for support from the Creditor Support Fund. I understand that each entity will have to - and it must bring documents to the bank - carry out a credit assessment. Is that so? I want to make sure. And what's the deposit ratio (the bell) for the Creditor Support Fund...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u487	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u488	...with the balance sheet total, you predict...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u489	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u490	...to reach this deposit rate?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u491	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u492	Oh, about the stakes... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u493	Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome. [[You're ruthless.]] And you're as nice as ever. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[You have time for ministers, and today it was especially visible.]] Member, please take your place and don't yell. [[Screaming like that. Screaming like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I've got two questions about helping out, so I'm going on a loan vacation. Firstly, in my opinion, these provisions in the law on the suspension of repayment of loans, i.e. for 4 months this year and another 4 next year, are very vaguely formulated and, in principle, for borrowers, there is no clear indication of what their situation will be when these holidays end. So what's the risk and how much are these loans going to be? I think we need to write this rule down more specifically, and I think it'll be pretty clear what kind of help it is. And the second question about the budgetary implications. The justification in this part is very vague and poorly written. Creditors Support Fund (Bell) by 1.4 billion...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u495	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u496	From what sources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u497	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm not going to talk about this bill because I can feel it in my nose that she's going to come back here to vote with completely changed content. Because I don't know if you know that today, for example. The National Bank of Poland spoke very critically about the loan vacation, and it is he who writes this bill, so we will see what happens. But I'd like to go back two years, exactly two years. It's May 2020, Mr. President is moving on to a small victory in the elections, followed by the entire PiS government. And what's that? That's when you do it? Then you promise so-called. helping the French people in their difficult situation. Two years ago, you promised to help people who were deceived by banks. They're cheated because someone who's going to the bank and wants to take 300,000. PLN of credit, and the bank tells him he doesn't have a credit rating of 300,000. zł, but has a credit rating of 300,000. Swiss francs, he gets cheated. What did you do for those people who were deceived by the banks? And I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u499	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u500	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to benefit from support, one of the conditions must be met. I wanted to say this because there's not only an overinterpretation here, I would even say that telling isn't true. At least one of the borrowers is unemployed. The monthly cost of servicing a housing loan exceeds 50% monthly income. Monthly income after deduction of credit costs does not exceed PLN 1552 in 2022 and it is necessary to prove its own purpose of housing. It's hard to imagine someone who has four apartments, five, six and seven apartments, fulfilling this condition of having their own housing purpose, unless they have a large family, but I don't think that's the point. So please don't overinterpret the rules that are very beneficial to borrowers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When implementing another complex directive, a project, a marketing product - a credit holiday will be added to the Polish legal order. We all know that it is a de facto ad hoc product, although it is necessary, because it allows to shift this one instalment into a quarter. My question is: What additional long-term aid plans will you have in this case? Is it going to be like, just for the election, or is it just going to be based on a change in the indicator, or are there any other proposals that you have in mind? Because it's a problem with what we have today, for example. with galloping inflation, it is also the result of your actions. You're responsible for massive transfers, electoral bribery like TV surcharges and decoders. And in order to slow down inflation, it is necessary to create good conditions for Poles to save (the bell) so that the money comes off the market. Do you have...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u503	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u504	...some kind of proposition. If so, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A concrete question: Will the government in further work on this law consider the possibility of suspending bank margins for even two years? Because that would be, Minister, in view of the galloping inflation, a real aid in the repayment of loan instalments. Ladies and gentlemen! We know what it looks like today. There are virtually no new loans. The ability is dropping rapidly. Developers already limit investments. We are facing a massive collapse in construction, which is responsible for 25% GDP. What happens among those who build? Banks are bidding. Many buildings are frozen. Young people, those who have invested, ladies and gentlemen, are very poor. If we don't take these things into account, we're gonna have a really big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We need a serious discussion on credit policy in various areas of economic life, including housing policy or family life in the area of consumption. I think that these proposals, which have been put forward, need to be supplemented by proposals from the clubs, which Mrs Leszczyn also referred to. As far as WIBOR issues are concerned, I would like to ask how this will affect the costs, the condition of the banks. Of course, it is not known how he will be appointed, but it will certainly be lower than the present one. Finally, the problem of housing policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u509	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u510	Loans should be linked to housing policy in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u511	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u512	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, it's PR. What you're proposing is PR. These are not concrete and good solutions for all those who trusted you, who trusted you and President Glapiński. Last year we all heard that there's no chance that interest rates would go up, and right now it's an absolute disaster. You're talking about a credit vacation. This is not a holiday, because you have now given Poles the horror of what is the increase in the amount of installments. On average, these are, ladies and gentlemen, close to 100%. higher instalments. This is absolutely terrifying. This idea for a vacation actually sounds really nice, but these instalments will still have to be paid, ladies and gentlemen, and right now these people are just going to have to pay for it. No, no, no, no, no, no, We need concrete solutions here. What we said as the Civic Coalition - the instalments not higher than that of December (The Bell) last year. That's specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u513	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel very sorry for all borrowers because they were actually in at least, modestly speaking, an uncomfortable situation. Society, actually, these borrowers expect real, real help, not such apparent actions. It was the PiS government that led to a crisis in the financial market. Of course, the war didn't help here either. She did her best. We're running out of apartments to rent for the average pocket, we're running out of housing policy. Credit vacations, late payment of credit for up to 8 months. Will you guarantee that credit rates will not be increased in the meantime? Will these holidays not have an impact on the increase in credit costs? For one day they will have to be repaid, and they will not be surrendered. Why do you not accept the good solution proposed by the Civic Coalition, so-called. rescue package for Polish families? This really is the perfect solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why do you not save the difficult situation by excluding the President of Glapiński from the National Bank of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u515	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u516	Minister! I wanted to ask to what extent the support of borrowers, individuals, as referred to in the bill we are discussing, concerns loans taken by SIMs, TBSs or rent and cooperative construction, e.g. tenants' apartments? It's not exactly specified here. I would therefore like to inform you: To what extent is this also relevant SIMs and TBS? Second thing. Does the proposed project specify the definition of housing credit to meet the needs of the borrowers' own housing needs? Does it therefore specify the reasons for the exclusion from support? Or support for people who buy a lot of apartments, as it was here. Did you just say that? Because I think it's also misleading the people concerned. And what does that mean (the bell) that the borrower is in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u517	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u518	Have these criteria also been clearly defined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u519	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to answer his questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u520	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer questions, a few things are worth lying off. Namely, it was mentioned that four aid actions were offered by Prime Minister Morawiecki. These four aid actions are. I was talking about three: the Credit Support Fund, the Credit Holiday and the procedure for determining a replacement WIBOR, and also the alternative indicator WIBOR. The fourth aid measure is an institutional aid mechanism for banks, so-called. IPS. It has already been introduced in the previous draft law, which I had the opportunity to present to the High House. Four aid actions are implemented at different stages. Mrs Leszczyna said that this fourth action was supposedly forgotten. We have not forgotten, little of it, it is at the most advanced stage of implementation. [[Voice from the room: It is not effective.]] So this is the first lie I've ever lied about, which I'd like to lie about here. The second thing - the Creditor Support Fund. Of course, it is a law that has been in force since 2015 and has been amended by President Duda, the conditions have been liberalised. However, this fund continues to have less interest in borrowers. But why? That's really what we've been studying. Like I said, borrowers just don't know it exists. It is a question of difficulty in submitting these proposals, but also of banking policy, with which we strongly disagree here. And that's what we're irritating. Even if the solution is good - and it has become even better after President Duda's amendment - so what if no one knows about it and it is difficult to submit a proposal. The aim is to ensure that it is as applicable and implemented by the entities authorised to do so. The value of this solution is also that regardless of the growing income per capita, on the head of the citizen, it is a solution as if eludes this problem, it catches in flight an increase in income per capita in the case of households. If you look at how it's constructed, you take 50% into account. the value of income regardless of the amount of income, or the drastic increase in instalments is taken into account, and then this indicator is about PLN 1200 in the case of a multi-person household per head or PLN 1552 in the case of a single household, but this is already after deduction of the amount of the instalment... So that a large installment means a big difference in income, and a smaller sum that we then get. And RWK gets it. This is how it is designed to be independent of the natural growth of per capita income, per head. Another point worth lying about here is that the aid is not targeted. It is aimed at, as I said, because it concerns those who need help now, it concerns those who, for various reasons, have low income after deduction of the loan instalment, and systemic, because we regulate for the future and permanent issues of a better indicator than WIBOR. It was said that it included a fifth, sixth apartment. If we look closely at the recipe, he says it can only be used in the case of one contract and only when it is concluded in connection with its own housing purpose. On the other hand, we know very well and we must take into account such situations, that for various reasons - most often it is inheritance from their parents - Poles have a home or apartment for their own purpose, but also have inherited from someone close to them, which for various reasons, often sentimental, do not want to sell. In our view, the exclusion from this aid of people who keep their parents' homes because they simply want to, because they are emotionally connected to this place, is inhumane. We must not disturb the social relations of Poles. Poles are very attached to the places where they live. This also shows the fact that Poles do not want to live in rented apartments. Poles want to own apartments and we have to respect it, and in this act we can see that it is respected. On the other hand, we are simply saying: we are only helping those who want to benefit from the loan for their own housing purposes, but we are not introducing conditions that could harm those who, for example, are not. have just inherited from their parents an apartment or a large family. That's another line. The Union is supposed to impose on us a replacement of WIBOR. Ladies and gentlemen! This is already a really big violation, because, if I know the BRM regulations well, it is absolutely not written there: Poland is supposed to replace WIBOR. It's not anywhere. Some 3-4 weeks ago, I did not hear from the opposition's appeal: Poland is obliged under the BMR regulation to replace WIBOR. Why didn't you say so? Because it's just a lie, there's nothing like that. What BMR designates is an emergency procedure in case either the indicator used in any Member State, not only in Poland, turns out not to be representative, or for some reason, and this is what will happen in Poland, the relevant entity considered that the publication of this indicator should be discontinued. And only, and only that is regulated by BMR. On the other hand, there is nowhere in the BMR that we are obliged or that there are grounds for implementing this procedure. The fact that we want to replace WIBOR with a better indicator - the question we do not know yet - is the sovereign decision of the Prime Minister of Morawiecki and the Polish government and then the Polish parliament. The EU doesn't impose anything on us here, it doesn't make it any easier. Let's not say it again. I'm asking you to lie to me. It has nothing to do with reality. WIBOR's replacement is a decision taken in Poland and will be implemented on Polish and not Brussels conditions. Another thing... [[Oh, dear, long live Poland.]] I understand that the messages from Brussels are of course important to you, but for us the messages from Poland are more important.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u521	Mrs... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: That's the first line. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, Commissioner, you're the one who's screaming from the Parliamentary Jury. Calm down. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: The way you want to fight the banking sector has shown the results of the banking tax vote. [[The Polish Parliament.]] The Civic Coalition has made it very clear how it feels about the income of the banking sector. You were against banking tax, so that's what you're determined to do in the fight against the banking sector. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, sir, ladies and gentlemen. Member, who are you threatening with this finger? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Realization of interest rates. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing. Of course, interest rates are a matter of the Monetary Policy Council. I'm not getting into that. On the other hand, we understand perfectly this problem and the doubts of borrowers regarding the fact that WIBOR does not follow the interest rates directly. This is a problem that has arisen at this point in time, so we want to help those who see this problem now, but really whether we should take a credit vacation or suspend WIBOR at 31 December 2021 level, would we give up the margin... By the way, I am curious to see how you want to do this, since this is precisely contrary to the GMR Regulation, and secondly it may have an unpredictable impact on the stability of the financial sector. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is contrary to BMR... Madame, your task is now to listen, not to yell at the Parliamentary bench. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: ...the suspension of WIBOR. System solutions need to be introduced... [[But don't use the word scream.]] It's a scream. You're yelling, too. Minister, continue. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Mr... [[We're talking out loud, not yelling.]] System solutions should be introduced. WIBOR suspension at 31 December is a non-systemic solution. Because until when would this suspension last? Is any of us here able to say that to the end of the squatter until there are high interest rates? I'm not, and I don't think anybody's in this room. So we'd have to prolong it later. We can introduce a more effective solution: set a better indicator than WIBOR. And that's what we're proposing. Let's do a system solution, not an emergency solution. The ad hocs are important, of course, but let's do a system solution. That's what we're proposing to do right now. We are helping borrowers now, which is why it is important to adopt the law quickly. We help borrowers, including the possibility to redeem some of their fees to the poorest ones, but we also introduce a system solution for all borrowers, richer, poorer, multi-child or childless, so that such situations with drastic interest rates increase are not so severe for borrowers. This is effective help, help here and now, but it's also help for the future, and that's what we have to stick to. Mrs Masłowska asked the right question, because, of course, mortgage credit is one thing, but we also have TBSs, we have social rent construction. This project also contains a recipe that somehow disappears in the media, but it is worth mentioning about this postulate of the Ministry of Development and Technology. We are also introducing preferential financing for housing projects by introducing a solution similar to the one addressed to the mortgage portfolio paid by individuals. The point is that social entities which conclude credit agreements, most often with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, will also be able to benefit from a credit holiday and reduce debt financing through such action, and simply wait for the time when we no longer have a WIBOR, but an indicator better reflecting social conditions. At the end of the day, I'd like to say that I'm very happy... It was one question, but the more I feel obliged to answer it. It is Mr Suchon's question about crowdfunding. I'll answer you at the end. Thank you very much for this question, because I'm glad we're not forgetting crowdfunding as well. The value of crowdfunding transactions worldwide in 2020 is projected to be over $6 billion and to rise to nearly $8 billion per year by 2026. There are currently 16 equity crowdfunding platforms in Poland, of which four have a significant market share and two social loan platforms, but for companies this market is developing very dynamically. In 2021, on Polish equity crowdfunding platforms there were 225 offers for the total amount of PLN 277 million. This is almost a double increase in the value of emissions compared to 2020 when there were 148 emissions for a total amount of PLN 153 million. I will answer the rest of your questions in writing, as requested by your MPs. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: corrected.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Member was not mentioned by name. I'm sorry, but you weren't mentioned. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft act on social financing for economic projects and assistance to borrowers, contained in print No. 2269, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 7 June 2022. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the document presented by the Council of Ministers: Road safety and activities carried out in this area in 2020 (print No 1271) together with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure (print No 1336). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber to present a government document.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u522	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The document on road safety and on the activities carried out in 2020 is a very broad, in-depth document. It gives very precise data on road accidents, including all categories of road accidents, in the context of road infrastructure managed from national, voivodship, district and municipal level. It is a very precise material, which the Ministry of Infrastructure, and in principle the National Road Safety Council, presents first and foremost to the Council of Ministers each year, and secondly to the High House, asking for this information. Ladies and gentlemen! 2020 was an exceptional year. We remember the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in February 2020. The pandemic has re-oriented our social, economic life, has also affected mobility and, in principle, reduced mobility throughout the world, including our country. This is also reflected in the statistics, which I will present to you in a moment. On the other hand, the COVID-19 pandemic and its limitations are one thing and the other is a consistent, determined strategy of the Government of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure as regards the approach to road safety. As far as the statistical picture is concerned, 23 540 road accidents were reported in 2020. This was a decrease of more than 22% compared to 2019. When it comes to the dead, it's 2491 people. That's a drop of almost 15%. as from 2019 26,436 people were injured. This is a 25% decrease compared to 2019. So that, in statistical terms, 2020 was the safest year for road safety. Of course, we're not satisfied with this statistics. It is important to decrease, it is important that accidents, casualties and injuries were less, while we must work together to ensure that the next years - 2021 is already behind us, 2022 is in progress - they have also shown clear, I hope, even radical improvements in these indicators related to road safety. But it is worth noting that 2020 of all those where this has been measured so far has been a safe year in this respect. With regard to the structure of accidents that took place in 2020, this structure was similar to that of previous years. The highest percentage was pedestrian accidents - 22.2%. Inaccuracies of speed to traffic conditions - over 23%. Accidents caused by cyclists - more than 16% , and with the involvement of drunks - more than 10%, 10.8% which represents an increase compared to previous years. We are also looking at this structure and, of course, we are drawing the right conclusions. I would like to remind you that in 2020 the Ministry of Infrastructure started work on important legal acts, which were already, of course, implemented in 2021, but then this work took place. I am referring here to a law which, since June of the previous year, gave priority to pedestrians entering the pedestrian crossing. The same law harmonised the speed in the built-up area. Right now it's basically 50 km/h around the clock. This law prohibited the use of mobile phones or other electronic devices when crossing the roadway, which could distract the attention, could result in the loss of perception by the pedestrian. In 2020, this legislation was prepared, and entered into force on 1 June 2021, as was the programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure: "The Safe Road Infrastructure Programme." Within the framework of this programme, 2.5 billion PLN in 4 years are already spent, because these investments are in the process of being implemented, on the point tasks of building pavements, walking-bike paths, bus coves and safe crossings, whether in the form of a roundabout or in the form of light signals. The most important component of this program is to illuminate all pedestrian crossings on national roads. Nearly $12,000. pedestrian crossings, which are managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, will be highlighted in a way that is defined in the analysis of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, so that it will not be such a random lighting, the setting of lamps, only lighting that will ensure pedestrian visibility when it is on a pedestrian crossing, but also when this pedestrian crossing is approaching. This programme is being implemented, tasks are entering the implementation phase. Of course, we are faced with some problems related to inflation, the increase of offers on these contracts, but we are trying to deal with this so that these tasks in the network of national roads are as much as possible. 2020 is another year in which we co-financed investments in local, district and municipal roads. More than PLN 3200 million have been allocated to these units of local government to improve the quality of the roads they manage. The Government Road Development Fund, because I am talking about this program, very well received in Polish local governments. We, too, worked in 2020 on a law that entered into force in 2021, which talked about expanding this fund from both the scope and the financial side. That's what happened. After all, we have announced recruitment for the construction of bypasses in voivodship roads, so as to support this road construction in this area. This was also the case in 2020. High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who work on Polish roads every day to ensure safety in road traffic, police and road transport inspection, which is supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure and also by voivodships. Of course, we are also supported by various kinds of organizations, associations, think tanks, which suggest what legal solutions should be applied to make it safer. The Ministry of Infrastructure is very open to such cooperation, and it has its expression in concrete actions, whether legislative or investment. So that I thank all those who work for us so that we can move safely and peacefully across Poland. It is also worth mentioning from the actions that were implemented in 2020, educational campaigns that were directed both to vulnerable road users, i.e. the first and cyclists, as well as to drivers of vehicles. These campaigns must be constantly present in public media and social media. We are aware of this - stressed by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk - that in order to ensure road safety, we must build on the four pillars: the road investments I have been talking about, the good law, and I have mentioned this, education and awareness of the rights and obligations of road users, the fourth pillar is an effective execution. These actions were undertaken in 2020 and in 2020 by the Ministry of Infrastructure. I look forward to your opinions, I look forward to your discussion, I look forward to your vote, to identifying the places that need to be improved, including the legal ones. The Ministry of Infrastructure is open to a good, substantive and interesting discussion in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u523	Thank you very much, Minister. I kindly ask Mr Peter King to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u524	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present our position on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure in the Government's Road Safety Report and the activities carried out in this area in 2020, print No 1336. On 6 July 2021, the Infrastructure Commission discussed the examination of a government road safety document and the activities carried out in this area in 2020. The report discusses the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions introduced on road safety in 2020. As the authors of the report point out, improving road safety depends largely on well correlated cooperation between different bodies and institutions and environments, both at central and regional level, which deal with their responsibilities to address road safety issues. From this report, it is clear that the National Council is taking concrete steps linking the actions and efforts of the various actors in order to increase the strength and efficiency of the impact on improving road safety while at the same time carrying out specific tasks of its own. An important element mentioned in the report as an improvement of road infrastructure is the information about additional efforts made to identify new directions for the development of road engineering through Polish research work, e.g. to improve the situation of the BRD of vulnerable road users such as pedestrians or cyclists. The document submitted shows that the main objective of the action is to significantly reduce the number of accident victims and their victims in large-scale engineering and education activities focused on the main causes of road accidents in line with the RTD principles. It is also stressed that in order to achieve this objective, it is particularly important to step up the development of safe road infrastructure by introducing changes in traffic organisation and knowledge sharing, addressing the problems involved, but mainly by implementing the appropriate pace of new road investments. Commenting on road safety in 2020, the authors of the document recall a number of statistics concerning inter alia:: types of accidents, number of fatalities, number of seriously injured victims, type of vehicles, gender of victims, behaviour of drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, etc. These data, which are very important, also contain relevant information - proposal and recommendation for corrective action taken. During the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, there were requests and questions from parliamentarians, among others. about when the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure will consider or undertake work on tightening penalties and raising mandates. It should be noted that this happened in the meantime. There are also examples of tragic traffic accidents caused by alcohol. Raised e.g. A tragic accident at Stalowa Vola, in which an intoxicated driver killed the parents of three children. It was pointed out that the National Road Safety Council report devotes a great deal of attention to the analysis and implementation of alcohol driving issues. It has also been argued that further initiatives by the infrastructure department to improve the safety of vulnerable traffic participants are moving in the right direction. High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would like to see this report adopted and therefore recognise the efforts of the authors to present this issue comprehensively for 2020 and to give a positive opinion on this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u525	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Piotr King.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u526	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Light déj? vu. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's Road Safety Status and the activities carried out in this area in 2020. Let me briefly remind you that the Committee on Infrastructure discussed this document on 6 July 2021. A government document on road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2020. On behalf of the club, I would like to express my appreciation for the authors of this document. I would also like to congratulate you on the consequences and courage of congratulating the Minister on his behalf, because we are aware that there were various factors, various pressures, in terms of raising, among others. the rates of mandates, particularly for those who pose the greatest risk on the roads, and inter alia. It happened. I'll also quote a few numbers that we can find in this report because they show that the efforts that are being made... Of course, this is not yet an effect that we would like to achieve in the end, because the final effect is the one that should be optimal - such that on Polish roads people do not die. But the trend we're talking about seems good, because if we've recorded a drop in the number of accidents by nearly 22%, we've seen a drop in the number of deaths by close to 15%. if we have recorded a decrease in the number of people injured on the roads by nearly 25% and the number of seriously injured nearly 17% in relation to 2019, it is evident that there is a good trend on Polish roads. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will vote in favour of this document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u527	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u528	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has already been said here, in 2020 it happened on Polish roads by 22% fewer accidents where 14% died less people than in 2019. The number of people injured was 26,000. These are inheritances, too. We just need to remember that these are figures for 2020. The reduction in the number of accidents was due to reduced traffic during lockdown, especially between May and June. The first wave of pandemic caused a 52% reduction in accidents. The wave that lasted from October to December also reduced the number of accidents. However, contrary to expectations, the number of victims of these accidents has not been reduced as much. For example, a 52% reduction in the number of accidents in April reduced the number of deaths by only 32%. In November, a 35% reduction in accidents resulted in an 11% increase in fatalities. All year round, it is clear that the decrease in the number of accidents - just 22% compared to 2019 - was accompanied by a decrease in the number of fatalities by only 14%, and by 17%. What does that mean? This means that accidents were more dangerous in effect, which is characteristic of events resulting from excessive speed. Empty roads, lockdown, some people move, we drive faster. The proportion of these accidents increased by 2.7 percentage points compared to the year. A similar phenomenon has also been observed in the countries of the European Union. Despite the decrease in traffic on roads, the number of road accidents did not decrease to the same extent and vehicle speed reports strongly indicate that speed limits could have been the main factor in increasing injuries and thus the risk of death of accident participants. That's kind of interesting, by the way. Less traffic on the roads, we drive faster, but it's not an excessive number of vehicles that makes enough people die in traffic accidents. On the basis of the data contained in the Road Safety Report for 2020, due to the impact of the pandemic, it is difficult to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of the State's actions to improve safety, although we do not deny them, absolutely. Any work to improve safety is important. In my opinion, more reliable data should contain reports for 2021. There's no movement. I think the Minister already has partial data for 2021. Because today we're talking about something that we talked about practically a year ago in July. And, of course, in 2022, there will be interesting data because it should be noticeable or not noticeable impact of higher mandates. However, it is worth noting that in July 2021. The Supreme Audit Chamber published the results of checks on the safety of road users for the years 2015-2020. There, in the general assessment, we can read - these are quotes - in Poland there is no coherent and comprehensive system for ensuring road safety despite efforts to expand, modernise road infrastructure, involve officials of individual services, etc. Poland remains one of the lowest levels of road safety in the European Union. As a result, almost 3,000 people die on Polish roads every year. persons. The reason for this is not to build a comprehensive vision of a country's policy aimed at tackling road traffic risks. Another reason for the lack of a significant improvement in the situation in the field of RTD is the dispersal of liability for road safety among a number of actors carrying out this task, the lack of the necessary coordination, prioritising and supervision of the activities carried out. The impact on unsatisfactory - and this is interesting - the level of the BRD also has low enforcement efficiency, insufficient quality of road infrastructure, in particular lower roads, road marking, unsatisfactory level of driver training. Minister! High Izbo! Perhaps it is time to verify the measures taken to improve safety. Of course, we will support this, as we have supported priority for pedestrians, we have supported increased penalties for road traffic offences (the bell), but we may need to find some new ways to improve this. We'll work together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u529	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u530	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The document submitted to the High House by the Council of Ministers on Road Safety and on the action carried out in this area in 2020 has become a major historical document. Since then, we have adopted a number of legislative measures that improve safety on Polish roads with the votes of the majority of the ruling but also a large part of the opposition, including the Left. We are talking about the first increase in mandates since the 1990s, extending the priority of pedestrians or harmonising the speed in the built-up area. The fact that these solutions are working - and I'm looking at our favorite skeptics here - says the latest data. Police Headquarters informed at the beginning of February that the number of speed overruns by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area had decreased by 50%. Preliminary police records indicate that there were 1230 accidents on the roads in January. This, of course, is still too much, but this is 678 less than in January 2020. The safety of pedestrians on the roads has also improved. The number of accidents in the lanes is 30% lower than in 2019. However, we will learn the real scale of the changes when considering the same report for 2022. The changes adopted by the Sejm are mainly the demands of the Parliamentary Group for the work of the Sejm. Road Safety under the leadership of Agnieszka Dziemianovich-Bak. I would therefore like to thank all the experts and experts, Members and Members, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure who have engaged in the work of the team. I think that together we have managed to show that it is possible to work on important topics for the safety of Poles and Poles. I look forward to continuing this cooperation and encourage all of you to become involved in the work of this team. Although much has been done and the fruitage of these changes is optimistic, we should not rest on our laurels. Poland is still at the gray end of the European Union in terms of road safety. Through further wise changes to the law, we can still avoid very many premature deaths. We need to confiscate cars with regard to road bandits, increase the number of speed cameras and restore the ability of local authorities to place them. On motorways and high-speed roads, you should end up with a free American woman and bet on stamina speed measurements. In addition, we should start a debate on the introduction of a new crime into the Criminal Code: a bravado disaster, because the last acquittal of a road pirate using a dog. Frog shows that there is a legal gap in this area. The introduction of such a provision calls for, inter alia. Mikołaj Małecki from the Krakow Penal Law Institute. It is also necessary for the police to start chasing organizers of illegal races, whose participants terrorize residents and residents of Polish cities. To sum up, I want to say, High Izbo, that we have taken important steps to improve road safety, but the changes that need to be made are much more. As a Left, we are today in favour of this document. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u531	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u532	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The statistical information presented by you in terms of decline is certainly optimistic, but we also know that the pandemic had a real impact on this decline. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking at the real intentions of the European Union, which assumed that the number of deaths in accidents in the European Union would fall by 50%, it has to be said that, however, this has not been achieved by the end of the year, as this has fallen by 36% in 2020 compared to 2010. We would like to say that Sweden is a positive example for us, but today it is difficult to reach it in this regard. There, 18 people are killed for 1 million inhabitants, in Poland - 65 people. But we have also made progress in this respect, because in 2010 it was 103 people and in 2020 it was 65 people. Every life is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, and from this place I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that this is 65 people, and not still 103 people. I would like to thank those who change infrastructure, those who change the law, those who consciously approach this problem, those who educate those who will one day be drivers, those who educate those who are already drivers. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we are facing challenges that are sometimes difficult to meet. Even if you finally have to start a discussion about ruthless driving licenses for those who get behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol. Unfortunately, it seems that there is still a lack of courage for such a drastic decision, and we know that these people are the perpetrators of many of these most tragic accidents in particular. As far as the BRD is concerned, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for all the investments that are related to the reconstruction of the roads to be mandatory also to build the right quality walkways and cycle paths. If we see that fatalities in built-up areas are mostly among cyclists and pedestrians, this must already be a standard when it comes to investment requirements. I know it's higher costs, but every life taken is a tragedy for the family, every victim is a huge cost on the part of health care, the labour market and everything else. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, assuming that we are in favour, we need to think about imposing even more restrictive penalties, because it is clear that only the exclusion of the pocket or the inevitability of certain solutions is able to significantly reduce this. And perhaps one day this Swedish pattern, which I told you about today, will become the everyday life of Poland. This is what we would like for Poles and Poles to die as little as possible on our roads, and best not to die at all. May this guide all the solutions that we are introducing, and hopefully they are effective, and this awareness in our society should grow from year to year. This, Minister, I wish all those who, every year, are undertaking the task of increasing this security during each term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u533	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u534	Attention, we are discussing the road safety report for 2020. For future viewers - it is May 2022. There is already a 2021 report available on the government pages, and we are discussing this for 2020. In the same Sejm, where we are able to adopt some EU emission plans by 2030, in the same Sejm, in which we are able to adopt provisions retroactively, as necessary, in the same Sejm, in which we have time to discuss for hours who will be a patron in the next calendar year. We do not have time to hold this debate on a separate date, because it is actually already a debate, as someone has rightly said, historical. Of course, the decrease in the number of accidents is likely to have something to do with COVID. This can be seen especially in months, e.g. from March to June and from October to December, where this decrease is clear, but on the other hand the increase in the number of vehicles was relative to e.g. Last year according to previous trends, so not everything is so obvious. What about 2021? 'Cause you guys are already here to show that it's another success. Mr Polakzek has been declaring after a dozen days, probably 12 January, that there is success after the introduction of higher mandates. After 11 days, he's already leaned on statistics like this. So? Contrary to what Mrs Beyat just said here, in the first quarter of 2020 there were 500 more accidents than in the previous year in the same period. Then how did you count it? What is the effect of these increased mandates? Again, it's just a cashier's heist and there's no results again. Penal populism and psinco. Mr King has already praised here that by 2020 the effects of these changes have already been seen in 2021. Here I remembered the world of Terry Pratchett's discourse. There were some last year's grapes that sowed in the following year and collected in the previous year. When they were made of wine, the hangover was the other day before it drank. You had to drink to get rid of him. So I think we're dealing with a similar phenomenon here. I would like to point out that after the introduction of rules on pedestrian priority in June the number of accidents increased, in July there was a very clear increase in the killed, and in the age range from 0 to 14 years there was a very clear increase in pedestrian accident participants. And didn't I say that exactly in January or February, when these ideas appeared, before Mr. Romik introduced those regulations, which came to us at the time? Didn't I tell him exactly from the autopsy, as I remember, how similar changes in regulations were made in the 1980s in Poland, like we did in Poland. Did we understand that this is just an invitation under the wheel, an invitation to test the driver's reflexes? Didn't I tell you this was gonna happen? I told you. Now you got what you wanted. You've only led (the bell) to an increase in the number of accidents and busting drivers into giant punishments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u535	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u536	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The documents discussed here were presented to the Committee on Infrastructure on 6 July 2021. Since then, 10 months and 20 days have passed, and 1029 projects or reports have been submitted to the Sejm during this period and have been given a print number. Probably a large part of them came out of the Ministry of Infrastructure and we had already discussed them here. Today's the hour. 22 for 10, and we can be sure that we're no longer being followed by any media. The above figures are not to be used here, but to make you aware of the place in the hierarchy of our work in this House in terms of road safety. It's like we don't have to rush to conclusions. As in Poland we fully realized the vision of zero, still unattainable goal of zero deaths on Polish roads, because we should strive for such statistics. The report is a record of pandemic data, hence not all conclusions can be drawn directly from it. However, even with such revised indicators, you can see how much we still have to do so that Polish roads do not kill. The efforts made by the Ministry of Infrastructure to improve road safety, which my predecessors have already mentioned here, must be commended. I'm not gonna say it again. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support the adoption of the report, although we would like the priority for road safety work to be higher in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u537	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u538	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When examining this document, I would like to raise the issue of the recognition of parking cards granted to persons with disabilities in the areas of paid parking. Although they are an international document, the rules for the use of parking spaces in zones are already established by a resolution of cities and municipalities. This is how we deal with different versions of the procedure - or a person with disabilities is exempt from charges on the so-called. envelopes, or an additional document made locally for the parking zone is required to be exempt from the charge. Białystok, Olsztyn, Katowice are a proud example of cities that allow free parking outside of envelopes. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. In one of the national parks the parking fee on the envelope is 8 PLN per hour. This brings chaos, but also sad surprises behind the car wipers of people with disabilities. Local governments, of course, have the right to set their own rules and rates for parking, but, Minister, shouldn't this be unified and arranged across the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u539	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u540	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I will no longer traditionally ask about pedestrian crossings, but about this infrastructure layer. Does the Ministry intend to introduce, amend the minimum requirements for green light? We all see regular pedestrians walking because they can't get through these pedestrian crossings in time. Does the Ministry intend to introduce rules for increasing pedestrian crossings, e.g. in built-up areas? I ask you this, I do not hope that the answer will be different from that of the last six years: that the ministry has no influence over this, the regulation, the road manager. Although I have a delicate hope - in the Ministry there has been a purge recently - that maybe the new officials will approach security a little differently, because in addition to the issue of mandate issues (Infrastructure Bells) are extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The report we are discussing today on the state of road safety in 2020 shows that the number of road fatalities per million inhabitants in Poland amounted to 65 people. We take place after Romania, Latvia and Bulgaria in 27 countries. The only thing we have succeeded in doing is reducing this number by around 37% in this decade, in the European Union - by 36%, which is, say, at the same level. The Minister mentioned that education is one of the pillars. I would like to ask what the government has done in terms of education for children and young people on road safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u543	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u544	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult to talk about the state of safety in road traffic without moving the topics of the construction of new roads and the timeliness of giving them. The best example, and in fact the worst, is perhaps the implementation of the S5 route section between Bydgoszcz and the entrance to the A1 motorway in Nowe Marzy. I would like to avoid pushing out who, when and with whom he signed the next contracts, because this subject has been discussed so many times, that the whispering of reality will not help anyone here. In any case, the inhabitants of my region after many years of movement after the lunar landscape of this construction have been assured that the investment will be completed and put into service in June this year. A few weeks ago it turned out that we could count on partial devotion, while finishing work is due to last until the end of the year. I kindly ask the Minister, so that the Minister, perhaps his personality and authority, would like to take an interest in this so that we can actually drive on this route by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u545	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u546	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2.5 thousands. Killed and 26,000. wounded are the balance of only one year of statistics from Polish roads. We're not killed by winding roads, not by bad cars, not even by trees. We're killed by speed and stupidity. We're bad drivers because we have car worship, aggressive driving, speeding, and disrespect for other traffic participants. I see strange looks of myself when I drive up to some kind of meeting with voters with my 14-year-old clio, even among my family. We've increased the parking tickets, but we don't enforce that right. How come there aren't any patrols on the main national roads on weekends? You don't regret police officers protecting the CEO's house, harassing women, not even caring about safety on the most important roads. Why are there so few cameras in Poland? I'll answer that. Because we all, even us, sitting here in the Seym (The Bell), allow it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u547	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u548	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Quite recently, quite interesting information was given. The tunnel near Ursynów was dedicated in December - 10 million vehicles and no accident. There is a distance speed measurement - 80 km/h. I've driven that way many times. This is indeed a safe road. This shows that perhaps the future in traffic control, in some discipline of drivers, is to provide more of such statistical speed measurements. The State Treasury has a district gate. Are you predicting an extension of the statistical speed measurements based on this infrastructure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u549	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u550	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to draw your attention to a group of people moving on quads. These are quadricycles, which already at a weight of 35 kg can lead a 14-year-old. Under our terms, we're talking about the vehicle, the quad, it can't be more than 45 km/h. In our market the most used quads are used and no one knows if they can exceed 70, 80 or 100 km/h, let alone that users of these quads do not comply with traffic rules. It's been reported by the media a lot lately. They pose an unimaginable threat to road traffic. It is my call, quite difficult to deal with this issue. We've settled a lot of things, and yet this area is still up for regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u551	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u552	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the GUS data, more than 60% households have a bicycle today. The number of cyclists increases as the awareness of ecological Poles increases. Unfortunately, cyclists are also the second largest group among road accident victims. Although the number of victims fell in 2020, it was the least that it fell when it came to cycling. On the other hand, when I examined the tasks carried out by the National Road Safety Council, I did not find any that were specifically devoted to the safety of cyclists. Hence my question: What measures does the government take to promote cycling and at the same time improve the safety of this important group of people moving on two wheels on the road? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u553	Thank you, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u554	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is built in the south of Poland, in Żywiecczyn, road S1, expressway. The deadline for the completion of the work was pre-defined at the beginning of next year, but unfortunately - these are difficult conditions, I understand, this is not the fault of the Law and Justice - this is a delay of several months. Currently, the traffic takes place on the road DK1 through the Hungarian Górka and through Milówka, the tira run over these towns, there are a number of accidents. I have a request - it's not an attack, it's really a request to the Ministry - to send a control team there to see if the pedestrian passages are well-lit, whether they are well marked, whether they are painted, whether there are properly built pavements or there are no holes. Because locals, local government officials signal that accidents occur very often there, and this will take several months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u555	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u556	It's always worth staying and listening to what Mrs. Gill-Friday says in her speech. Zero accidents, this is the programme of Poland 2050, zero accidents, i.e. zero cars. But Mr Chasek here also flashed in the direction of the speed measurement. That's the solution. What if, sir, you put a GPS tracker in every car at all, and he would put a ticket on it as soon as you crossed the speed limit? That would be very effective. And people like you are building totalitarianism, in the name of supposed security, they're monitoring citizens. But I have a question for the government: Are there any shore conditions where you will find that the experiment has failed? Because you always promise to fall if it doesn't fall, then you explain it or you do something else, and if it falls, you say it's all your fault. And generally never. There are no conditions under which the rulers would admit: Okay, this regulation was a mistake, it did not have the desired effect, we are withdrawing from it. Are there any conditions under which the Minister will be able to admit that the hell, we did it, Mr. Sosnierz was right, it doesn't work, these increases (the bell) of the tickets don't work? Are there any conditions?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u557	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u558	If I could ask for a written reply, I would like to have some analysis of the situation in terms of security in the various regions, whether there are differences in regions in Poland. How it's shaped in particular years, because it's still... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Yes.]] And by region. And two: What does it look like in the context of other European countries, and Central and Eastern Europe, and also of this older Europe? In writing, please, if you don't mind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: She is, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u559	Thank you, sir. The Minister says it's probably enough to read the material well. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to answer questions. Mr. Member, after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u560	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by asking you a question about why we're just doing this report right now. Well, a few months ago, this item appeared on the agenda and was taken off at the request of the opposition, which at the time believed that in a situation where Russia was attacking Ukraine, it was not worth talking about it. Your marshal has agreed to this - this time has extended - and has proposed this report, a report from the report now. The opposition raises the floor that it is too late and asked for this item to be moved on the agenda. That is the truth about why we are talking today about the state of the BRD in 2020. Many of you are already asking about 2021 and 2022, i.e. asking about the effects of the measures introduced, whether it is statutory, whether it is investment, during the last time. I can say that as far as the number of accidents is concerned, here I will answer Mr Sosnierz, if we compare the period from 1 January to 23 May this year. up to the same period of 2021 - despite the fact that in 2021 in January, February, in March we had lockdown, there was remote work, remote learning, much fewer vehicles on the road - it will turn out that there are fewer road accidents. Once again, traffic accident victims in the first 5 months of 2022 compared to 2021 and also with subsequent years of the same period are less. So that there is already this partial answer to the question about the provisions related to the increase of mandates for radical traffic offences, whether it works or doesn't work. Of course, this is a partial clipping for now, because I'm talking about the first five months of this year. We will see what the summary of the year 2022 will look like compared to 2021. Although a 100 percent comparison will not be possible in this regard, as I say, in 2021 we had to deal with lockdown in the first part of the year. However, this will already show us a more complete picture, at the request of the Government, by the majority of this House, as well as by the Senate, of the rules relating to the priority of pedestrians, as well as the increase in the rates of fines for the most serious road offences. Then, Mr President, I can tell you if you were right or wrong. I hope that you will then be able to clearly, soberly, in accordance with the facts and the truth, referring to statistics, assess. I am convinced, and I say it publicly, that road fatalities in 2022 - thanks to the fact that we have introduced these regulations, that we are constantly investing in improving the quality of roads at national, voivodship, district and communal level - will be less. I'm betting dollars against nuts, that's exactly how it will be, sir. [[It's less every year.]] That's not true. [[Almost every year.]] Between 2017 and 2019, we have not seen any declines in road fatalities. You can talk about a certain trend. Over the three years we've been standing still, this level like a sineoid waved between 2850 and 2950. [[That's not true!]] The radical decline was in 2020 - Mr, please listen - in 2021, which was related, and I admit it honestly, with the COVID-19 pandemic, but I am convinced that this decline, even compared to those pandemic years in 2022, will be maintained thanks to these legal, investment, education and execution activities. Education issues. The Member asked about the education of young people and children. In 2017, as part of a technical lesson, we introduced communication education into primary schools, therefore children already at primary school are taught the basics in terms of road traffic issues, of course in a way that is accessible to them depending on which class they are in. We are going to do this communication education from the next school year - not from the nearest one, but from that one more - to expand. We already have an agreement with the Minister of National Education, so that we really want to focus even more on education for the young generation. On the other hand, from such ad hoc things we quickly created a script for road safety. I think it's a nice study and it's worth reading. This is the most important information related to the provisions given in an accessible way. In Polish it is not surprising, but we created this script also in Ukrainian. Thousands of people came from Ukraine to Poland also with their cars and drives around the country, so it is worth to get acquainted with this material. It is prepared and already transferred to the field to also our guests from Ukraine about these issues related to road safety and to the regulations that concern it, to teach. With regard to road investments, we pay attention to any investment that is carried out, whether from the National Road Construction Programme or from the 100 ring road construction programme, whether from the Safe Road Infrastructure Programme, i.e. from those programmes for which the Minister of Infrastructure is responsible. We also look at investments carried out with the support of the Government Road Development Fund, we look at investments made by local authorities from the general subsidy reserve and these programmes are still present. We do not spare expenses for local authorities to be able to improve the quality of their road infrastructure, and we want these investments to be implemented as soon as possible, but not at the expense of quality, because it is the most important in this area. Asking to compare Poland with other countries of the European Union. In fact, we're still in the other half, in general, although we climb this ladder slowly. In 2021, looking at the statistical picture, we overcame one country in terms of the number of road accidents per million inhabitants. However, I must tell you that both in 2020 and 2021, i.e. in these pandemic years, not in all countries of the European Union, statistics were better if we compared it from 2019. Despite the pandemic, despite less mobility, and everywhere these restrictions were roughly the same, there were countries where traffic accidents, fatalities, injuries were higher than in the non-pandemic years. So that such curiosity is also worth giving away. I think that this is proof that not only the pandemic has done its job, but also our consequence in investments and everything I've said has contributed to it. The viaTOLL Gateway. The main road transport inspector shall verify which of those sections of the national roads on which these gates are installed could be suitable for installing a sectional speed measurement, but we shall not install them where there is no problem with accidents. Where it's safe, where there's no traffic accidents, we're not going to assume these staggering speed measurements, because why? We want to aim for investments where there are some systemic, structural problems and where we install stamina measurements of speed and speed cameras. We have a special fund for this under the National Recovery Programme. Today, good information from here, from the Sejm, regarding the announcement of a national reconstruction programme. I hope that in the near future these places are clearly dangerous, i.e. those where accidents occur due to speed, we will also arm the OPP or the speed cameras. A question about cyclists. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk appointed a representative for cycling and road safety a few weeks ago. Mr Marek Dworak, a valued expert in this field, is to prepare for us a material that will show what legislative initiatives Parliament is to take at the request of the government to improve road safety. I know Mr. Marek Dworak is working very hard on this material. We will, of course, be able to share these effects with you. So much for the questions that have been addressed. Some of the things you said were your opinion, your assessment. Whether I agree with her or disagree with her, thank you very much. Thank you for the discussion in the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you once again to all those who care about road safety on Polish roads: Road Transport Inspections, Police and Road Managers who invest in them. A few days ago, I signed, in accordance with the procedure, a report on the implementation of BRD activities for 2021. It is to be adopted by the Council of Ministers and goes to the Sejm. So I think that in the coming months we will be talking about those issues from 2021, which I can already tell you was even safer with regard to statistics than 2020, there have been fewer road accidents, fewer fatalities, fewer injuries. So that it turns out, Mr President, that we have come out of this frenzy in terms of reducing the number of road fatalities. We have dealt with this marathon between 2017 and 2019. [[Between 2014 and 2015 too.]] That's when we were practically standing still. Now, on the other hand, this drop is visible. [[It's not.]] I am convinced that in 2022, i.e. in this present year, we will also significantly reduce the number of people who die on Polish roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u561	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Piotr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, we will not enter into discussion and polemics now, I am very sorry. We're not at that point. That's what the Minister understood, that's what he said, that's what the Minister said. Rapporteur for the committee Piotr Król. You're welcome. [[Correct...]] No, sir, no. Sorry, sir, no. We're not at that point. This is not a discussion, sir, at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u562	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Briefly. I would like to join you in thanking the Minister. I think that actually all the club voices, with one exception of course, were characterized by concern for greater road safety. A Confederate representative of some quote from Terry Pratchett - I will remind you, however, this is a rather fantastic series that he wrote - he tried to assign me some content. Maybe I'll just make a heroic attempt, even though I have my doubts as to whether you can understand it. Well, the committee meeting took place last year, in the meantime there was a change in the amount of seats, and that's what I was referring to, and that's what both the minister and I were talking about. As far as fantasy literature is concerned, Jack Piekara and Andrzej Sapkowski would recommend from Polish authors, especially Jack Piekara, his series of Ja, the inquisitor. She's a little settled in the Middle Ages, there's a little bit of fantasy in there. But maybe it'll be easier for you to get in touch with reality. Happy birthday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u563	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the document presented, road safety and action in this area in 2020, we can see continuing high values in terms of pedestrians as victims of accidents. For many years, a high number of deductions and pedestrians have been a serious problem in road safety on our roads. The same is true of fatal deaths in all road accidents, and pedestrians represent a high percentage. Nevertheless, this situation is improving from year to year. Data suggest that a high proportion of pedestrian victims are elderly people. What measures have been taken to protect these people from accidents? Are programmes or other activities being developed that could improve this state? In addition, please answer whether it is appropriate to set higher standards for pedestrian crossings. I mean, above all, visual warning signals for drivers that pedestrians are in the passageway. Will the development and implementation of such standards have a real impact on road safety?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u565	The Committee on Infrastructure calls for the adoption of a government document on road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2020 contained in print No 1271. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 55th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see. No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u566	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that every year tomorrow, May 27th, we will celebrate the Day of Local Government. On this occasion, it is worth noting the huge role of local authorities in shaping civil society, which is the foundation of democracy and the strong Republic of Poland. It is also impossible not to mention comprehensive initiatives and actions, as well as the implementation of various tasks and investments by local authorities, which directly affect the improvement of the lives and quality of life of our residents, the development of a friendly image and climate, which creates a better future for all, even the smallest, municipalities in Poland. And the perfect management of each entrusted gold and property proves only the power and extraordinary efficiency of their functioning. It is also worth noting that the government recognises the importance of Polish local governments and has been actively supporting their activities for many years with numerous programs and financial tools. On the eve of the Festival of Local Government, I would like to express my appreciation for the achievements of all local activists in their work for the well-being of local communities and for the full dedication of activities aimed at continuously improving the living conditions of residents and implementing positive changes in many aspects of social life. I wish that work in the local government is a source of personal satisfaction, and the actions that have been taken so far always have the desired results, and I wish you perseverance in the implementation of further ambitious intentions for the common good, as well as every success in this important and responsible service. Thank you very much. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u567	Thank you very much. Marshal Margaret Gosiewska, Law and Justice, I invite you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u568	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, in his statement, Mr Kurzepa spoke about my visit to Guest Land in Lubuskie. It was a visit related to the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the resettlement of Poleszuks and the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany. 75 years ago, Polesia residents were brutally deported and forced to settle in western Poland. Many of them went to Białkow, where their descendants remember their roots, cultivate Polish traditions, create new Kresy. I would like to thank all those with whom I could meet during this visit, great local activists from Białkowo: Dr Wojciech Wojtyszko, Fr. Krzysztof Sudziński, Mayor of Cybinka, Mark Kołodziejczyk and representatives of Żarski, Żagański and Słubicki self-governments. Thank you very much to Mr Kurzapa for organising this visit and inviting me to the ceremony. I would also like to say hello to all the artists from the bands: Gold Kłos, Field Flowers and Chabry and children from the Little Rainbow band. You're all great. You cultivate our Polish culture beautifully, you care about its survival. I am glad that there are so many bottom-up initiatives, so much social activity in the places I have visited. Special compliments are addressed to Fr. Professor Andrzej Dragula for a wonderful homily during the Holy Mass of indulgence. The second day on Lubuska's land is Międzyrzecz and the celebration of the great anniversary of the Association of Poles in Germany, whose wheels operated on the Land of Pszczewska and Babimojska in the years 1922-1939. On this occasion, I would like to recall the idea of a relationship, so-called. The five truths of Poles: we are Poles, the faith of fathers is the faith of our children, the Pole is a brother, every day the Pole serves the nation - and the most important thing that this House would need - Poland is our mother, we must not talk about the mother badly. Thank you for the festivities and warm welcome by his Excellency Fr. bp. Tadeusz Litinski, Mr Andrzej Kirmiel, director of the Museum of Międzyrzecko Land, and Mr Tadeusz Szczyrbak, President of the Family of Rodz. It was a beautifully spent time among kind people. Separate thanks to Fr. Canon of Piotr Bortnik for the opportunity to learn the Sanctuary of Our Lady patiently Listening and praying together. Dear Lubushus, dear land of Lubuska, thank you very much for your warm welcome. I wish you many further actions, the development of small homelands and all good things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u569	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchonia, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u570	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! On May 30, each year we celebrate the World Day of Multiple Sclerosis. It is an international celebration of people with multiple sclerosis and the whole community working to fight this disease. The aim of the celebration is to build a community between people with MS, their loved ones, the medical environment and patient organisations, and to raise public awareness about this disease. Multiple sclerosis is a chronic disease that affects people between the ages of 20 and 40. Its essence is the incorrect transmission of nerve impulses. It is estimated that in Poland it can affect about 45 thousand. persons. Untreated leads to invalidity. It is not known what contributes to the disease, but it can only be assumed that it may be associated with an abnormal functioning of the immune system, environmental and genetic factors. Multiple sclerosis is a disease that requires specialized treatment and constant rehabilitation. Therefore, on this particular day, I call on the government to respond to the needs of patients and to allow the treatment of modern drugs that are able to effectively and significantly halt the progress of this disease. I also call for the treatment of modern preparations to be possible immediately after diagnosis, if necessary. Delaying the administration of medicines leads to disability, and this is a situation that we should never allow as a country. On the World Day of Multiple Sclerosis, I also encourage all countries to show support and help those who suffer from this chronic disease, not only today but also every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u571	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of last year, the government selected Choczewo commune in Pomorskie Voivodeship as the place where the first Polish nuclear power plant was established. The preparation and construction of the power plant planned for the next 15 years is a challenge for the functioning of the municipality of Choczewo and the neighbouring municipalities and the districts in which the above municipalities lie. I call on the government to adopt a strategic government programme to reduce the consequences of the construction of a nuclear power plant, the main objective of which should be the economic development of the nuclear power plant's impact area and the protection of the quality of life of its inhabitants and economic operators. It should provide for the comprehensive investment necessary for the construction of a nuclear power plant, but also for the socio-economic activation of the area of its impact. In particular, the government should ensure the development and adaptation of transport, economic and economic infrastructure. The construction of a nuclear power plant is the consequences of increased traffic of vehicles, in particular heavy equipment, increased rail transport and increased maritime transport. The current infrastructure needs to be prepared as soon as possible. This should be the first step of the government. Self-governments should receive government guarantees in the field of power plants impact and support, e.g. on the modernisation of technical and social infrastructure. Government support from the strategic programme should cover the area designated by the project plan for the development of the Pomeranian Voivodeship 2030 as an area of impact of the nuclear power plant in the Commune of Choczewo, i.e. the Pucky, Wejherowski and Lęborski districts. The inhabitants of Pomorskie voivodship have the right to expect that the construction and operation of a nuclear power plant will not impair their living standards. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following questions: What investments are planned by the government in preparation for the construction of a nuclear power plant in the municipality of Choczewo? What compensation is the government planning for the planned construction of the Choczew nuclear power plant? And the third question: Will the government adopt a strategic government programme which will determine the actions that will be taken before the construction of the power plant, during the construction and subsequent operation of the power plant? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u573	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u574	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1992 almost 70% society exercised faith in the Church, going to Mass at least once a week. Today, only 23% of Polish residents and residents carry their faith to the Church. More and more young people claim to be unbelievers. It's a surprise herb. It is a balance of pathology in the Church, whose state is an alliance of the throne with the altar thoughtlessly claps in exchange for access to a good word, even performances of politicians from pulpit, as well as support in the media of Tadeusz Rydzyk, sometimes for a tight deal between the Prime Minister's wife and the curia. Balance? Disgracing church oligarchs, pushing government laws to speedily push through the Sejm, racing rats for land, property and finalization from the state budget, hypocrisy and lying, impunity, pride and contempt for the victims of crimes, fraud even on the relics of Charles Wojtyla, lack of social solidarity and non-payment of taxes despite the business done under preferential conditions, strenuous persistence of the master of PR Francis in a favorable Putin position against Russian war criminals and lying about their guilt by all of us. Underneath all this is signed by the Polish state's concordat. It's what good people suffer from. Priests who actually devote their lives to the faithful, giving a real example, are unfortunately overshadowed by those who use the faithful and the caskets to do their own business. Nothing to the Church, nothing to the Church to the State - only this principle ensures true justice. The forest will come to the Church as to Macbeth, but this forest will soon come to anyone who today defends pathological addiction on the state line - the Church. A secular state is a right state, and it also means respect for true faith and unbelief and true equality of all citizens, regardless of the collar. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u575	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u576	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In mathematics, zero is very important. It turns out that in the United Right, too, because PiS just defended Minister Ziobra - the man who destroyed and stubbornly pursued the prosecution, through whom we are deprived of funds from the Union. I asked the voters what they would like to tell Minister Ziobra, and here's what they asked: Minister, how are the NIK reports on the embezzlement of PLN 280 million from the Justice Fund going? Does the prosecutor's office under your direction deal with the houses of Prime Minister Morawiecki yet? Mr Ziobro, after your meeting with the pro-Kremlin environment, do you want to continue to harm Poland and destroy the European Union? Get some other country out of the Union, and you'd better move out of the Union on your own. We're staying. Why is your party considered a virtue to be foolish? Don't worry about the prison, you won't be alone there. Prime Minister Miller, speaking of you as a zero, overestimated. I want you to pay back every penny of what you lost to Poland. I see you as the general prosecutor of Russia. What hooks do you have on Kaczyński's band that the president would rather drown Poland than cancel you? Why did you make an ATM out of Poland for your plans, and the nation has promises? The voters are also giving you what the Snake Island defenders are telling you. Thank you to this gentleman, let them take care of the rest - hopefully soon - really independent law enforcement agencies and independent judiciary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u577	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. Come on in. I'd rather cry than laugh... [[We agree... to cry that you defended, definitely.]] Don't argue with me. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Here in our House, we have just been thrilled by the debate on the motion to dismiss Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. But Poland is dead with this. For citizens who come to us on duty, call and write, the most important thing is a drastic increase in the price of coal, eco-pea and fear that in winter they will have nothing to buy this eco-pea for. One of the ladies, a resident of the municipality of Witkowo, writes: I ask you to take a polite look at the situation of drastic growth recently in prices of eco peas, coal, had etc. According to the pricing findings of local sellers as at 25 May this year. 1 t of eco peas costs 3 000. PLN and the purchase price in September 2021 was 1 000. Zloty, so it's three times the height. Is it possible? I would like to point out that the price of an eco-pearl from a mine made available directly in an online store is 1 000. zł, just a chance to buy it is small, it borders on a miracle. Then you tell her that she got her dad to replace the stove with eco peas last year. He did it, and now for his agricultural pension of 1600 PLN he can buy 0.5 t eco peas, and it needs 5 t, so the lady continues to write this way: Yes, I know, I got help to replace the furnace - 3 000. zł, i receive a cover supplement, it is a compensation aid to some extent inflation. The situation of a drastic rise in coal prices is incomprehensible. I understand he may be short-lived at the moment, but such an increase in price? I therefore call on you to address this problem so that you will notice this problem so that you can take concrete action. This situation concerns most of the population - says Mr.John of Dominov, as Mrs. Wanda of September writes, so say those who call, who are interested in this matter. I also count on the appropriate interest of the competent (Ring) authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u579	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u580	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On May 27th, the National Day of Laboratory Diagnostics is celebrated. On this day we thank our laboratory diagnostics for their persistent and often invisible work for the patient. Diaphragm is a very quiet hero in hospitals and health care units because that's what they're called. When working, they provide doctors with data, often crucial for the diagnostic and medical process. Each test involves the work of a team of medical staff of a diagnostic laboratory in which a laboratory diagnosis, which interprets and authorizes the results, plays a key role. On the occasion of the National Laboratory Diagnosis Day, I wish you every success, fulfillment and satisfaction in the service of another man. May each day of this responsible work bring satisfaction and expected results. Today we thank you for your work and express our appreciation and gratitude. Today, the High Sejm passed a law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some of the medical personnel. I'm glad there were lab workers in this group as well. Once again from this place I offer all laboratory staff my warmest greetings and wishes, including wishes addressed to the employees of my home hospital - the Provincial Observatory and Infectious Hospital in Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u581	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u582	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To this day there are still cities in Poland that have narrow-track railway. It used to be in Piotrków Trybunalski. The first plans for the construction of the narrow-track railway from Piotrków to Sulejów were already created in 1895. This was due to the fact that the transport of lime to the famous iron road - the Warsaw-Vienna railway caused that a large traffic on the road between two villages completely destroyed the road. Count Stanisław Józef Psarski, who was the main initiator of the railway, was granted permission to build it in 1896. The project was approved at the turn of 1898 and 1899. After 22 months of construction, the first train of relations between Piotrków - Dziedłowy left on 5 October 1902. The first journey on the route took place on 16 November, which is valid and considered to be the date of opening of the railway. In the history of the operation of the railway there were plans to expand it. The construction of the line from Sulejów to Żarnow, Paradyża and Koński was considered as early as 1910 and so-called. the city line connecting the narrow track railway with the railway station in Piotrków. In the years 1902-1929 the Sulejów railway was managed by the Society of the Iron Road of Piotrów - Sulejów, and in the years 1929-1948 the Łódź Electrical Railways Association. Just as the other private railways in Poland were nationalised in 1948 and incorporated into the PKP. After the Germans blew up the railway bridge on Pilica in 1945, it was no longer rebuilt, and the railway route was shortened to the stop of Kępka, renamed Sulejów-Pilica. Around 1956 a siding was opened from the Sulejów station to the Lime Industry Plant in Podkurnejdz. The route next to the national road No 12 and the competition with buses that have been running since the 20s, which is characterized by inter alia. The presence of three communication lines from Piotrków Trybunalski to Sulejów resulted in a final decrease in the number of transports in the 1980s. In 1986, the last course left Piotrków Trybunalski station on 30 September at 3 p.m. 2:30 p.m., and the episode of the Suley-Pilica has been stripped. In 1990, freight traffic was suspended after the contract was terminated by the Lime Industry Department. In response to the upcoming closure of the railway traffic in 1990, the Association of Friends of the Narrow Track Railway of Piotrków Trybunalski - Sulejów was established to save it from liquidation. Thanks to this, in 1994 the team of the station Piotrków Trybunalski Wąskotorowy was included in the register of monuments, and by the end of the 1990s the transport of the line was restored to the stop of Bugaj Piotrkowski and special journeys were started. However, regular travel was carried out only during summer holidays. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the railway did not last, and in September 2008 it was completely liquidated and sold in 2010. It would be a pity, because it would be a great tourist attraction, as it would be in other regions of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u583	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u584	After today's meeting, Mrs Marshal, with the delegation of the New Zealand Parliament, as well as as as as the long-term chair of the Committee on Agriculture in the European Parliament, I want to raise the problem of food security globally. Because the consequences of the Russian attack on Ukraine are felt by the inhabitants of even remote parts of the world. Russia and Ukraine together supply almost 1/3 of world wheat exports. Before the war, Ukraine exported 50-60 million tons of grain annually, which is twice as much as is produced in Poland. According to experts, about 80% The global population is dependent on food imports. Therefore, unless problems with the displacement of Ukrainian grain stocks blocked by Russia are resolved, the food crisis in the opinion of experts can be very severe, leading to hunger in many regions of the world. The blockade of Ukrainian ports caused the Ukrainian export of cereals to be stopped. It is estimated that in Ukrainian warehouses there are about 20-25 million tons of cereals from previous harvests, for which recipients are waiting in various regions of the world. The port lock does not allow this grain to be transported to the public. Hence the great logistical challenge. This is also the subject of discussions at European Union level, FAO, which was the subject of discussions by the Minister of Agriculture of the United States in Poland. It's about some actions that... I think there's a chance that there's some concessions on the part of Russia that this food could be transported into different regions of the world, otherwise it threatens the hunger of millions of people. As for the situation in Poland... The situation on the market is very dynamic, variable. Every day we observe different changes in cereal prices, which translates into higher prices for flour, cereal products and products of animal origin. This affects prices, food security for our citizens, but also the situation regarding food availability. Especially for poorer people, average food expenditure is more than 30%, and for poor people these costs are much, much higher. Moreover, there is also a problem with prices when it comes to agricultural inputs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about fertilisers, plant protection products, seeds. All of this translates into production costs and production costs again translate into food costs for consumers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u585	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u586	In this difficult situation, aid should be given to farmers but also to the poorest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u587	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u588	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Already in a few days, 30 May, we will celebrate the Replaceable Parenting Day established by the Polish Sejm in 2006. This is an important day for those who create family homes, as well as for institutions that support their functioning. The subject, although socially important, is not sufficiently promoted. Many children still go to institutional foster care. Raising a child means not only caring and providing basic needs, but above all feeling of security, shaping a system of values and positive attitudes, and building lasting relationships. It is a long-term process of preparing a child for social roles and functioning in the full family. In the case of children who are deprived of the possibility of growing in a biological family, family foster care becomes an alternative. Replacement families are people who not only undertake professionally to raise unrelated children, but also give their time and home with full dedication, engaging their own forces and often financial resources in order to create a substitute for a family home. Such families balance social deficits, support the child's development and shape positive attitudes. It should be noted that not only in the interests of the child, but above all in the whole society is the comprehensive support of foster families. It is very important to support all initiatives at both local, local and government level, to promote and support the idea of family foster care. On the occasion of the Parenting Day, I would like to convey from this place my words of appreciation and respect to all those who are undertaking the task of running foster families and foster homes. Thank you for the great effort put into caring and raising children who have not experienced parental love. I wish you unfailing zeal in fulfilling such a noble mission and appreciating your work and dedication in the care of bringing up future generations for which your family will be one of the most important values. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u589	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u590	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow at the Nadodrzany Border Guard Department, there will be a ceremony for the Border Guard. I would therefore like to address your commandant, Nadodrzański, of the Border Guard Division, General Brig. Border Guards of Tomasz Michalski, to you, ladies and gentlemen officers, officers, officers and officers. Poland is proud of you. The land of Lubuska is proud of you. We loom, we are proud of you. We thank you for this sense of pride, which emerges from your heroic, steadfast attitude in the care for the security of Poland, especially about the integrity of its borders. The time in which we live together sets out new, unpredictable challenges for which your formation, the Border Guard, must respond effectively, act efficiently, behave safely. For many months we have witnessed provocation in hybrid war on the Polish-Belarusian border. There were many hurtful words from political circles that are represented here today. And yet Poles unanimously and spontaneously responded to your actions with a cascade of action: a wall behind a uniform. On my initiative, they also spilled over Lubuskie Land. Today, on the day of your holiday, we strengthen this support and express our respect for your resistance to hurtful words, gestures full of hypocrisy and hostility. Above all, we thank you for your bravery in the field, i.e. the real confrontation with threats on the border strip and in the interior of the country. You know best how hard it's been. It is known by your loved ones who, both then and now, in the hustle of the Russian-Ukrainian war, must endure in the hope that you will return healthy and alive. Thanking you for your service and your loved ones for their daily encouragement and words of support, the question remains: What would be the safety of Poland if your efficiency were less? How much would have changed if the Belarusian provocation had been successful? Your bravery then and now allows us, Poles and Poles, to feel that we are well guarded, that no one and nothing can exceed our borders. Mr. Chief! I think it's your pride, too, in command of the formation, which so beautifully records the history of the Border Guard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations on that, and I appreciate the high class of officers, commanding skills. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u591	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u592	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're celebrating a special day today, Mother's Day, actually it's due tonight. In Poland Mother's Day was celebrated for the first time on 26 May 1914 in Krakow. And although only Polish mothers celebrate this day, this holiday is world-class and aims to show respect and love for their mothers, to thank them for their presence and the effort put into raising them. Motherhood is one of the most natural and at the same time the most extraordinary human experience. It's love and responsibility, it's effort and challenge, it's a great blessing and happiness that relives every day. We know how much effort it takes to raise a child. Care for health, education, building relationships is a daily tedious work that requires great commitment, often sacrifices and sacrifices. It is best known by Polish mothers, who over the years, in the face of wars and other threats, have committed themselves to fulfilling their vocation. Polish mothers took care to preserve Polishness, taught their children Polish language, often against harsh prohibitions, talked about Polish history, passed on tradition. For all this we are very grateful to them. I direct my words of appreciation towards both modern mothers who put their hearts into raising their children and those who are already enjoying their adult children. On this special day I want to quote a fragment of Anna German's song and dedicate it to all moms: Thank you, mom, for all the moments,/ Thank you, mom, as I can most tenderly,/ But most of all thank you for being, mom, that you are, mom,/ Because just because you are, you are always helping/ Straighten your back when life boils. In a few days, June 1st, we will celebrate the International Children's Day established in 1954 by the United Nations General Assembly to promote the ideals and objectives of the rights of the child contained in the United Nations Charter. I also want today to claim the fate of single mothers raising their children in a family crisis after the marriage breakup. Ten years ago, our parliament passed the right to punish a parent for not having a child in contact with a second parent with a financial penalty for that parent. Punishment cases concern approximately 85% mothers who raise children under the age of 14. These penalties in some cases amount to several hundred thousand zlotys and lead to chamber activities and auctions of the parent's home, most often mother's. It's an unfair law, and we need to change it as a parliament as a matter of urgency. Not having a child is an abuse of the so-called. parental alienation as an attitude used in such situations. This is a PAS theory, an American psychiatrist (The Bell), not accepted by the WHO as scientifically unconfirmed, and even having harmful effects on the well-being and protection of children, which often conceals physical and mental violence. I wish mothers well, good days, and children responsible parents. Children have the right to both parents' safety and love, and parents have a duty to provide them to their children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u593	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Sławomir Skwark, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u594	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday 23 May we celebrated the next anniversary of the death of Fr. Stanisław Brzóski, the hero of the January Uprising. He was hanged along with an aide on the market in Sokołów Podlaski. The sentence was accepted by the governor of the Kingdom of Poland, the Russians of German nationality, Frederick Wilhelm Rembert Count von Berk. The life story of Father Brzóczka is a ready-made script for the film. In January I mentioned the initiative of making a feature film, which was undertaken by Tadeusz Syka. I am convinced that these kinds of cultural works, which bring us closer to our wonderful, but often tragic history, especially in these troubled times, are not only a wonderful spectacle, an intellectual feast, but, above all, a valuable and important lesson about the heroes of our homeland. Working on a movie about Fr. The tumors are picking up the pace. The environment of people and institutions has been established. Production is also valid in the context of events beyond our eastern border. In the film Poland will be shown as a country which also experienced tragic events with the same enemy, Russia, much earlier than Ukraine. I hope that next year, which is the 160th anniversary of the uprising, we will be able to see a work of artistic and educational value. I also trust that this will give rise to further initiatives aimed at commemorating the legendary form of the January Uprising, Fr. Stanisław Brzóski. It is worth recalling that in 2008, on the anniversary of death, by order of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Lech Kaczyński, in recognition of the excellent merits for independence of the Republic of Poland, for the patriotic attitude and heroism shown in the fight against the conqueror Fr. General Stanisław Brzóska was posthumously awarded the Order of the White Eagle. It is worth that his character is also the patron of next year. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those supporting the creation of films, especially those faithful to the diocese of the village, who responded to the appeal of Fr. bp. Kazimierz Gurda. I'm hoping there'll be others following that trail. Please support the initiative of the film institutions and individuals from all over Poland, but also the largest current patrons of Polish culture, the company of the Treasury. It is worth adding that the last film about the January Uprising was realized more than 30 years ago. This is a large loophole in cinema, which needs to be changed in order to make young generations aware of the tragic process of seeking independence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this film we will pay tribute to all those fighting for the independence of their homeland, with the last insurgent at the head, Fr. General Stanisław Brzóska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u595	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think there's anything more disgusting in a democratic state than treating a common good like a private farm. There is nothing more contrary to the rule of law than an official or a vagrant who does not execute final judgments because he prefers to take care of himself and his wallet first and foremost. It awakens and should always arouse our outrage. An outrage that becomes a source of righteous rebellion, a struggle for dignity, honesty and our common good. If we want a common state, a good public service, then we must take care of the people who provide these services, of the private officials and employees of public institutions. It's up to them how we live in our local communities, how we handle our daily affairs efficiently. That is why today we unite in indignation and determination with the strikers trade unionists, workers and employees of Olsztyn's local government, who are trying to restore basic decency, transparency and the rule of law in their city. It's in December. In the year Olsztyn Ładowers raised their salaries by 100%. Currently the councilmen earn PLN 3399 and President Piotr Grzymowicz almost 20,000. zł. This is more than the President of Warsaw. Vice President's salary increased by 5,000. zł, and the secretary of the city about 4 thousand. zł. However, the workers of the Olsztyn self-government for 13 years have not received significant increases. It is difficult to call an increase in wages resulting from an increase in the minimum wage. City Hall employees, daycare workers, the ILOS and the DPS make a lousy living. The irony of fate is that they are to be a refuge for the needy inhabitants of their city, despite hard work for them, and they themselves are eligible for social support. In February this year, trade unionists won a victory before the Supreme Administrative Court. The court ordered them to be informed about the city hall payroll so that they could examine whether the president was paying his protégé any more quietly. Apparently, there's something about it because Piotr Grywacz still hasn't executed the judgment. In the face of pandemics and wars of economic crises and the crazy cost-effective increase in wages for workers, it is a sign of social responsibility. The position of Olsztyn authorities deserves firm condemnation, while unionists fighting injustice, nepotism and pathology in public institutions - our recognition and full support. That is why I call on this House and the inhabitants of Olsztyn for full solidarity with the strikers from the Union of Workers of Local Government Administration of Olsztyn City CouncilSymmetry, ILOS and Urban Daycare Team and DPS Kombatant, who are fighting together for a better quality of public services in Olsztyn. We support them today. And in next year's municipal elections, let's settle those who treat our common good as private farms. Let us remind them that they are with feudalism and oligarchy in Poland we finally finished 100 years ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u597	Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me read the appeal that has been addressed to me, but also to other representatives of parliamentary clubs, as well as Prime Minister Morawiecki and ministers responsible for these tasks to support photovoltaics and facilitate the construction of solar power plants in the area of particularly vulnerable energy security today. Zero VAT rate for renewable energy production equipment, photovoltaic installations, heat pumps, energy storage; simplification of procedures for installation of photovoltaic equipment; exemptions from the procedure for obtaining building permits and reduction of the procedure for issuing conditions for connection to medium-sized photovoltaic installations to 14 days, or recognition as a business-related clause excluding the possibility for a company to purchase energy from renewable sources. These are the most important demands, whose implementation will allow to accelerate the development of photovoltaics in Poland, one of the basic elements of RES and energy independence. On February 24, the world changed. The entry of Russian Federation troops into Ukraine has caused the energy transformation planned in Europe to accelerate. Its original aim was to reduce the use in energy and in the transport of minerals, which had a negative impact on the environment. At present, its primary task is to cut Russia off from the resources obtained from the sale of hydrocarbons, which allow it to continue to war and carry out every day crimes on the Ukrainian people. Poland, in order to become independent of Russian coal, gas and oil, must use all the possibilities to replace these alternative fuels as soon as possible and thus ensure energy security for Poles in the long term. After all, one power plant in Chernobyl can be occupied, but hundreds of thousands of houses and companies equipped with RES systems and energy stores cannot be occupied. At present, we have a unique opportunity to achieve priority objectives in Poland's energy policy, both on geopolitical and climate issues. Poland has a chance and must accelerate energy transformation. One form of achieving this objective is the development of photovoltaic sources. Last year, the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act shifted the limit of small installations from 500 kW to 1000 kW, but in the case of medium-sized installations there are no significant simplifications in the investment process. For this reason, an investor who wishes to carry out an installation slightly above 50 kW is obliged to obtain a building permit and connection conditions. Only these two procedures take 7-8 months, it is a very large investment barrier for tens of thousands of companies wishing to invest in medium-sized photovoltaic installations and electricity production. During the meeting of the EU leaders Ursula von der Leyen said that renewable sources are native and create jobs (the Bell) in Europe, they represent a strategic investment in our security and independence. It is very important to work immediately on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act, and I will, of course, submit an appropriate interpellation on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u599	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski closes the list of statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, thank you for your patience. For some of the most important days of the year is Easter, for others Christmas, but for many it will be Mother's Day or Father's Day. Today's Mother's Day is a special day on which we can thank all mothers in Poland for years of care, care, love and warmth. In particular, these words are addressed to the mother of three of my children and to her own mother. This holiday has a long tradition in many countries around the world. In its early days mother's day dates back to the days of ancient Greeks and Romans, then its heroes were the mother goddesses. In 17th century England mother's day was celebrated under the name of Sunday at mom's - on the fourth Sunday of the fast, then prayed in cathedrals. In France, the mother's day was introduced by Napoleon and is celebrated every last Sunday of May. In Australia, the United States and Canada, the festival is held on the second Sunday of May. According to the old custom, those who want to celebrate mother's day cling to their cloves - white if the mother of the person is already dead. In Mexico, mother's day falls on May 10, Ukraine on May 8. I wish that no child in 2023 in Ukraine would have to wear this white carnation. In the Czech Republic it is also the second Sunday of May - the month of love. And in Poland we always celebrate mother's day on May 26. It is a day I have, but also a day of children, a special time for children who remember about parents, especially the smallest ones that prepare for mom, and sometimes also for dad's poems, songs and dances. All children, teachers and loved ones involved for these beautiful poems, songs and dances thank you very much. My daughters, I am so sorry that I couldn't see their performance live today, and their older brother very much thank you for spending that time with his sisters in kindergarten despite school breaks and the chance to play on his computer. Once again, I am truly sorry and I thank your mother, who was with you in kindergarten that day and filmed these wonderful performances that I could see. Thank you very much and have a quiet night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u601	Mr President, such a conscience check is something in public. Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u602	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, clean air is very important to all of us. We know how urgent it is to remove the so-called ones from our homes. Cinderella. I therefore call for the extension of the financial support under the ministerial programmes to be extended to an ecological source for owners of more than one apartment in a building without a separate perpetual book. Such a solution will significantly increase the number of non-organic heat sources eliminated. In this regard, I have already addressed the Prime Minister and I hope that the low emissions will be reduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u603	Declaration on fuel policy in times of crisis Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2011, i.e. A year after the Smolensk disaster, the Civic Platform government was going to sell Lotus to the Russians. The official correspondence has been sealed. Imagine at which point in history we would be now, when behind our eastern border there is war, and we, Poland, the country with the greatest heart for victims of war in Ukraine, would be completely dependent on Russia. It would be a disaster. Fortunately, we now have a diversified fuel supply. We do not have to pursue a two-faced policy like other countries. Now we see how important it was for PKN Orlen to take the Lotus. We also see that the criticism of opposition about the sales of parts of Polish petrol stations for Hungarian MOL recommended by the European Commission was political perfidity. It does not fit in the mind, how one can criticize the care of energy security of the country, aiming for sale of everything Polish. This would be an act contrary to the Polish state's right, an act that undermines the sovereignty of the country, and as you can see today, this underrated and somewhat archaic sovereignty is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u604	Dear Marshal! Behind us is the Mazowiecki Security Week, within which security picnics were held in individual delegations of the Education Curatorium in Warsaw, at selected schools from the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. On 13 May, the conference was launched.Always safe - prevention of threats. It was addressed to school heads, teachers and parents to encourage them to plan activities related to the safety of children and young people. There were lectures on the safety of children in road traffic, by water or during school trips. A great deal of attention has been devoted to children's and young people's normal habits in the event of a threat, e.g. Fire or first aid basis. The next stage was safety picnics, where safety issues, threats and ways of dealing with these situations were presented in an attractive way for children and young people. It is worth noting the excellent cooperation between the Mazowiecki Voivodeship Office and the Education Curatorium with the Fire Department, the Police and the Water Volunteer Emergency Service. The picnics took place, among others. road traffic know-how competitions, cycling competitions according to traffic regulations, tournaments improving cycling techniques, scooter slaloms, safety games and games, thematic talks, medical rescue and pre-medical assistance demonstrations and demonstration of specialist equipment. In my constituency, picnics took place in Płock, Ciechanów and Unicorn. Many times, as part of the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I have talked about the importance of the safety of children and young people, especially in road traffic. Picnics met with great interest of children, young people, but also parents and teachers. Attractive form of education, professionalism of uniform services and great fun allow to claim that the initiative was a complete success. Thank you, voivode and your probation officer, for the actions they have implemented. I would like to thank all uniformed services, institutions and associations for their enormous commitment to this initiative. The knowledge passed on about safety principles, threats, ways of preventing and dealing with dangerous situations will pay off. Children and young people will be safer in school, on the road, by the water or during the holidays.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u605	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, a decision has been made on the Strategic Investment Programme for spa communities. This is the fourth edition of the Polish Government Fund. This is over PLN 240 million granted support for 50 local government units. This programme will make a significant contribution to compensate for the reduced revenues to the budgets of municipalities due to pandemic sharpenings. With the freezing of healing and tourism activities, there was a decrease in revenue from the health insurance fee, as well as from taxes of PIT and CIT, therefore within the framework of the Government Programme of Poland, a special edition addressed to the spa communities was separated. The Polish spa programme is a great development investment for localities and spa communities and modernization and creation of comprehensive solutions for spa tourism. Together with Minister Paul Chezernaker, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, we provided this information during a press conference in Ustka - a spa town located in the pole district. Ustka will receive nearly PLN 5 million for reconstruction of ul. Kościuszki, ul. Liberty Square and connecting these streets of intersection with ul. Jana from Kolna. These roads lead towards the promenade, which will significantly increase the attractiveness of the seaside resort. I am pleased that the government, headed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, through the development of spa infrastructure, is working to restore the tourist potential of Polish spas affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. From this point on, I would like to thank you very much for this additional support, which is now very much needed. After the pandemic many people need recovery of health, and the best for this place are our Polish spas. I am convinced that these investments are extremely important for the people of our region.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u606	Parliamentary statement in connection with the tragic situation of child psychiatry in Poland Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In a few days, June 1st, we will celebrate the day of the child - a feast extremely joyful and cheerful. Unfortunately, not for everyone. Millions of children will spend this day in completely different moods, which is related to the general mental health problems in children and young people, which have been greatly aggravated in the last 2 years as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the radical reduction of social contacts. In addition, children today are exposed to various kinds of attacks, such as hating or hate, which they cannot cope with on their own. Unfortunately, the state of prevention and availability of specialist mental health services is very bad in Poland. Psychiatric treatment has been in a permanent crisis for 30 years. This is the most underinvested area of health care, which has been treated as a fifth wheel for years both in terms of staff training and infrastructure investment. Today we have only 493 doctors specialized in psychiatry of children and young people. Only 39 of them have the first degree of specialization, which gives two doctors in the voivodship. The situation is dramatic and unfortunately unforeseeable. The absence of doctors is not the only problem of Polish child psychiatry - there are also no suitable facilities. In many voivodships there is only one 24-hour psych ward for children and young people, and hospitals across the country lack room for patients. In Poland, there are not only fixed branches, but also other psychiatric institutions offering psychiatric care. Daily units for children and young people are very few, but they are the place where children can benefit from different treatments and do not have to stay in the hospital all the time. There is also insufficient mental health advice for children and adolescents. Often a visit to a psychiatrist is expected for several months, which is even fatal for some in need. There is no doubt that the system of psychiatric assistance for children and young people requires reform and a very large amount of funding. All activities related to psychiatric treatment of children and adolescents need to be supported. It is necessary to increase funding to a sufficient level, improve the working conditions of children's psychiatric doctors, use them only to fulfil strict obligations medical, not administrative, and above all applying an incentive system to attract as many young students of medical art to this very difficult field of medicine. The lack of action in these areas will result in further deterioration of access to health services and will endanger even more young people in need of urgent assistance from children's psychiatrists for loss of health and life.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u607	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 74 years ago on 25 May 1948, rtm was murdered. Witold Pilecki's coat of arms Leliwa ps. ¿Witold¿, ¿Druh ¿. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 74 years ago, the communists murdered Witold Pilecki, captain of the Polish Army cavalry, co-founder of the Polish secret army, soldier of the Home Army, prisoner and organizer of the resistance movement in Auschwitz and author of reports about the Holocaust, so-called. Pilecki's reports. The Rotmaster was accused and sentenced by the communist authorities of the People's Republic of Poland to the death penalty. He was executed in 1948. The annulment of the judgment in Witold Pilecki's case and of the other defendants who were tried with him in 1948 took place on 1 October 1990. The Military Supreme Court freed those who were convicted of all charges, stressing the unfair nature of the judgments handed down in violation of the law. The Supreme Court stressed the patriotic attitude of the wrongly convicted. After death, in 2006 he received the Order of the White Eagle and in 2013 he was promoted to colonel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-26-sejm-55-2.u608	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 55th session of the Sejm, the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 56th session of the Sejm convened on 8 and 9 June 2022 was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. Thank you for accompanying me to the end. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 09]]
