ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Mr Franciszek Sterczewski and Mr Robert Gontarz, who will be conducting the minutes and the list of speakers. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Health-- hour. 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Health-- hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory, print No 2077. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country (Prints No. 2069, 2069-A and 2077). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in this country, in print no. 2069 and 2069-A. At its 50th meeting on 8 March, the Sejm sent the above draft law together with an auto-amendment to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. At the same time, the Sejm pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. The Commission examined the proposal in accordance with the order of the Sejm yesterday, the work lasted almost 10 hours and was carried out quite continuously. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about how important this bill is. By reporting, informing the High House of how the work was done, I am convinced that with a clear conscience I can say that they were very substantive and conducted with great seriousness, because we all see and feel what the situation is. And today, of course, work on such a huge element of the change in Polish law, on a new proposal is taking place, as we all know, at a rather high pace. For this reason, all the provisions of this law affect very many spheres important for the life of Poles, but this law is addressed primarily to our neighbours, to Ukrainians, who in a huge number cross the Polish border and already reside in the territory of the Polish Republic. Because of the situation that has arisen and the need to prepare this law, it was done at a rather high pace. As I said, the Council of Ministers adopted this law and addressed it to the committee yesterday, the committee addressed it in substance. In the Act, in this original project there are 105 articles which have been the subject of work. I stress - I do not want to get into the details, because there will certainly still be a further order, there will be proposals at second reading - that despite some differences, certain elements relating to merery, the whole of this 10-hour debate was based on responsibility, on the fact that we see the need, we see the need for these changes. We will probably have to lean on this as the Sejm, as the substantive committees, but this situation is so dynamic that today it is necessary to adopt a law to give what is important, what the local authorities expect, what Poles expect, people who, absolutely with a good heart, accept with an open heart tens of thousands of refugees. That is why it is so necessary to adopt this law at this rate, today. Now a few words, which, in my opinion, should be spoken at this moment, because the work in such a way as I said, is rapidly taking place on the basis of a draft law drawn up by the Council of Ministers and by Prime Minister Morawiecki. And thank you for that, too, because this project has been, and there's something to work on. I also thank Minister Wąsik - I do not know if he is in the Chamber - for being a coordinator. His work yesterday and all of this on behalf of the Ministry is important, coordination of these matters is very important. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, for his merology and for his hard work, ten hours. He didn't get carried away, he kept everything in check, and we ended up voting on the whole bill. I can't get past the legislators either. Huge, hard work. From what the president has told me, this morning, counsel at 4:00 a.m., they have completed their work to prepare a report. Finally, I thank all the members of the committee, because really, once again, it was very substantive, very specific work, which makes it possible for us today to have a second reading and to move on to further activities related to the adoption of the entire law. The result of the work and analysis of the solutions adopted in the Act, after considering this project yesterday, was a vote in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. For 40 members of the committee, 38 Members voted in favour of the bill, 0 were against, 1 abstained. For this reason, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs calls for the High Sejm to comply with the law contained in the attached draft to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u3	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Zbigniew Sipiera, rapporteur, has sort of touched on the most important elements that were discussed at the meeting yesterday, long-term, but that's a good thing, committee meetings, because that's why we are here to make decisions quickly and carefully in these difficult times. Undoubtedly, it is happy that we had a different view of some of the records. And I'm sure the sentences will also be divided in the second reading when we want to make the appropriate amendments... [[About impunity?]] ...but in general I think we can talk about the fact that we are achieving a certain consensus when it comes to the Polish political scene. This consensus is very much needed and is needed right now. Ladies and gentlemen, helping our neighbours, who are already with us at the moment, is, of course, extremely necessary and extremely important, helping in this legal form, of course. After almost 14 days of armed conflict, we take the initiative, which is a very important, very important initiative, and it also seems to be a comprehensive initiative. At this moment, of course, we are not able to predict everything, because the situation is dynamic, the situation makes what is happening in Ukraine probably has to result in other actions in the future as well. But it is very good that this law arises, that around this law is understanding and agreement. It seems to me that it is also very important to point out that this is a legislative proposal, which brings very much, but it is very large financial resources. I think today we have to ask ourselves a question, which, of course, is a question for all of us, and why I'm about to tell all of us. The question is whether this law will also be able to consume measures that are external measures. We already know that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also receives external funds for Ukraine, not only the EU, but also, as it turned out yesterday, from the United Nations. But, ladies and gentlemen, this law requires the voice of the entire Polish political class, the whole. The one who is here, in this Chamber, the one who represents local governments, and maybe, as it turns out, above all, the one who represents the Republic on the international stage. I am thinking, above all, of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, with astonishment several times, because I opened my eyes with amazement, listened to the statements of Janina Ochojska, a representative, a representative of the Republic of Poland to the European Parliament. If such people speak this way at this time, then, ladies and gentlemen, it does not lead to anything good. The shocking thing is that this is how a person who has been involved in helping another person his entire life is taking the floor. [[Voice from the room: Supposedly?]] [[He's a cheeky guy.]] If she was doing it right, if she was doing it out of the purity of her heart, then this is the moment to continue to show that these values she was guided by are values that she is guided by today. [[Concentrate on the bill.]] This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, because hitting the Polish government at the moment, hitting the Polish state right, hitting the unity of Polish society and the Polish political class is extremely dangerous and bad. [[Voice from the room: About.]] [[Talk about the bill.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from this point of view, I appeal to all of you to influence politicians who, as it is said, have always been bathed in hot water, always presented some other way of thinking - not now. If they can't help themselves, let them really shut up. If they don't want to talk, don't talk. [[Then come down.]] Now is the time to show everyone that important matters are really happening in the territory of the Republic of Poland, difficult matters and that we all want to deal with them, all of us. There's no time for a testicle right now, and a statement like Janina Ochojska's is going in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why I would like to ask you once again to be serious, as you could see at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of continuing to make good amendments to this law, so that, of course, it can be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u5	Please, Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict, the project being examined at an express rate. The report on the 10-hour committee meeting is indeed still hot. But we understand it because it is an important project, expected by the institutions of the Republic of Poland, by local governments, NGOs, by all Poles and Ukrainians. We understand that. They also understood this, it seems, some representatives of the governing party, because it must be said that there were very good talks with some ministers yesterday and there was great understanding when adopting the amendments. But of course not everyone understood that, because there are politicians who extend their right hand to the agreement, and in the left, in the back, hold a baseball bat and pretend to want consensus, reconciliation around this important legal act and not only. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the two disgraceful records, the articles were removed. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 82 guaranteeing the immunity or impunity of officials - still operating backwards, so that it is clear. Thank you very much to all those who voted against and deleted these two articles. It was also shameful to try to manipulate local governments. Self-governments didn't want that record, and they didn't ask for it. I'm officially saying this to everyone so you can understand. [[Applause]] Trying to manipulate in the article. 71 self-governments so that in the article. 82 enter civil impunity, not the first time. We return, ladies and gentlemen, to a few issues that have not been taken into account. Namely, we want to delete the word directly in the article. 1 because there are many Ukrainians who went through different channels to the Republic of Poland, and these are members of the same families. Some crossed the border with Poland, others with Slovakia. They have the right to be together in the territory of the Republic of Poland. So we ask you to take this into account, we are making an amendment at second reading on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor do we agree that state finances, public finances, should be distributed beyond any parliamentary control. Yes, the approval of these special funds, the help fund at BGK, other funds. Okay, so be it, but at least control the Sejm on these funds, opinion on the expenditure plan and report on the spending of these funds. It's gonna be tens if it's not hundreds of billions of zlotys. There must be control over them of the Sejm (Applause), these expenses cannot be administered only by the Prime Minister of the Republic, despite the difficult situation. Public procurement law. We agree to exempt from the application of this law at certain moments, but ex post control, i.e. posting information about orders, is simply mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen! We also return to the question of our friends who had to flee from the Lukashenka regime to Ukraine, and today they have to flee from the bullets and bombs of Putin. Those people who have been hunted by the Lukashenka regime and are going to Poland through Ukraine also have the right to be protected by us and treated on the same rights as the Ukrainians (Applause). Ladies and gentlemen! Here's another one. You have written down the possibility for the Prime Minister to issue orders to entrepreneurs, binding instructions concerning activities, e.g. reconstruction of infrastructure, etc. We understand that these commands can be given to local governments, public institutions, etc., but not to entrepreneurs. Therefore, we are asking for a change here and we will be making (Applause) an amendment on how to delete these entries. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I appeal to all my colleagues from the United Right, so that you really bend over these amendments that we are still making during your second reading. [[There's no one to appeal to because they're still asleep.]] These are good, substantive amendments that will make this bill, which everyone expects, really effective and fair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u7	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u8	High Izbo! It was productively spent 9 hours in yesterday's committee meeting. I think we can all agree on how rarely in this room. The bill in the shape of which she came out of committee is simply better than the one in which she entered it. And there was something going on in this committee that doesn't happen so often in the Seym. I mean, we've been working on regulations often without looking at who's the author of them. With good results, because it makes this bill look better today than it looked yesterday. And it is no coincidence that almost all members of the committee voted in favour of this final form of the bill. I think this is a good signal, and I think this is an important moment. As I said yesterday, the challenge we are facing today, the challenge which is the consequence of the war that is taking place in our eastern neighbour's territory, is probably the biggest challenge facing Poland since 1989. And it would be good for the political class to take them seriously. The primary responsibility - I would also like it to be clear - lies with the rulers. I hope that, as we have been able to achieve such a form of law, better than the initial one, more acceptable to everyone than the initial one, during the work of the committee, so this way today we will go further, also during further work. Ladies and gentlemen, we at the coalition club of the Left are very pleased with the amendment of the title of this law - from the law on support for Ukrainian citizens to the law on support for Ukrainian citizens and their families. This is important because there are many families who go to Poland, where not everyone has a Ukrainian passport. For the time being, we have managed to persuade the governing party to include, under this law, spouses who are not Ukrainian citizens, but we will also make amendments at second reading, which extend slightly more to a group of persons covered by the law. And we would very much ask you to consider this for humanitarian reasons, simply. We also ask that you take a positive look at the improvements that improve the teaching environment. The point is to really support these kids. It's about expeditions, it's about solutions that will strengthen the school. They're really... [[The voice from the room:...with the expeditions, as there are expeditions.]] These are reasonable proposals that are largely still acceptable. I would also like to thank you for having accepted the amendments tabled by the deaf community. It is a good thing that the ruling majority accepted these amendments of the Left. I think that this will be real and important support, just as it is important that the obligation of multilingual forms arises. Ladies and gentlemen, what we would like to ask you to do in further work is to go again to those amendments that appear, not on a mechanical basis, but to take a serious look at them, because there are many of them - I will not now tire you of reporting the content of all of them - which could really enrich this bill. Finally, I wanted to express my hope that these sensible decisions on the removal of two unnecessary articles from this law, on which the legislators of the Sejm also had considerable reservations, would be maintained. Because really the last thing we need in this dramatic situation today is a conflict as usual and a political outburst as usual. I encourage the ruling majority to simply come to her senses and continue working with this project as it came out of the committee, because I think it will be useful for the cause and for the benefit of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u9	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u10	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We all still hope that the war in Ukraine will end quickly and that the provisions of this law will not have a long application. But today they are very important - important for the citizens of our country, important for the local governments that will provide assistance, and important for those who will be beneficiaries of this aid, that is, for the Ukrainians. Ladies and gentlemen! How important and serious this problem is, we know perfectly well. We know what happens in Ukraine, what Ukrainians experience, who save their lives, leave their possessions and cross our eastern border. Today we are dealing with the largest wave of emigration since World War II. Were we ready for this? Nobody asked us that. Without any legal solutions Poles are helping Ukrainians another day and even another week. There is a huge wave of kindness and empathy passing through Poland. This is a completely bottom-up and spontaneous movement, but in order to be effective, appropriate mechanisms and solutions are needed to regulate and secure this assistance from the government. This law is extremely necessary, and its records must be deliberate and precise. Work on it last night in the committee lasted a long time, until late evening hours, but this work was very substantive. As a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, we have also tabled a number of amendments, which I am about to submit to your marshal. The first amendment concerns the allocation of an appropriate amount of funds to adapt the deserts, many of which are in Polish villages where Ukrainian families can settle. Their children will be able to go to Polish schools and kindergartens, which are less crowded than schools in large cities. The idea is that refugees from Ukraine arriving in Poland will not settle only around Warsaw, Krakow or big cities, but also so that they can be located in a Polish village where they will find a job and a decent place to live. Poland village, together with the government and local governments, will take care of the Ukrainians. This is about smart coordination of actions. The solutions contained in this law will help to provide care and help, in the field of education and education of children, students who are Ukrainian citizens, help to return to Polish and Ukrainian students, but the provisions of this law do not include students of other nationalities who also studied in Ukraine who paid tuition there, and now have no chance of further education and development. As a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, we make an amendment so that this law can guarantee it to them. And as I said, the bill goes in the right direction. We will vote in favour of the solutions contained in it. However, there are areas for change and development, hence our proposals. On the other hand, it is good that the work of the committee deletes the article. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 82 of this project, because it cannot be that you are returning to things that have been socially and politically misjudged for a long time. There are special states, extraordinary states, but this absolutely does not relieve officials of responsibility and does not mean impunity. We are proposing an amendment that will make it easier for local governments to distribute this assistance by non-governmental organisations and local government budget units. The law is necessary, as I mentioned, to Polish citizens, Polish local governments, NGOs and Ukrainians of course. Therefore, after adoption of the relevant amendments, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of this law. And now on your hands, Marshal, I'm making the appropriate amendments that I've discussed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u11	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u12	I am very pleased that during the committee's work, the scandalous record of impunity+, which was to remove criminal liability from public officials who were acting to the detriment of the public or private interest, has been removed. As the Irish thinker Edmund Burke used to say: the indifference of good people is enough to win evil. Thank you very much to those who have not been indifferent about this matter. At the same time, I fear that the government will try to smuggle this record across the bounds of decency in some other law, which will also apply to something completely different. As for refugees from Ukraine, I am glad that Poles show enthusiasm for helping refugees from Ukraine and note that the Confederation has participated since the first days of the war in this assistance. I was the first Member on the border in Medyce, the next day in Przemyśl at the station. The Confederation has transferred 100,000. zł of own resources, because with grants it cannot, to a foundation that helps people living in Ukraine. Even if in my Krakow the Krakow Confederation Club created by the KORWiN party already in the first days of the war provided 30 refugees with a roof over their heads, food, transportation, at the head of my parliamentary office a family from Ukraine, until the end of the war. I also said goodbye a few days ago to the three older Ukrainians who found refuge in my apartment. They came to Poland with a disabled daughter and already flew to Finland, to relatives. Why am I talking about this? Of course, not to brag (Merry in the O.R.), because there is nothing to brag about. What's more, I shouldn't talk about it, because you shouldn't publicly brag about how you help. What makes me say that? Scandalous, lying misinformation about the Confederation, that the Confederation, now not allowed into any media, showed some anti-help and anti-refugee tendencies. This is obvious, in the light of these facts, nonsense. [[Do you have to do the commercial now?]] By the way, I would like to point out that solidarity is a bottom-up, voluntary helping one another. Social benefits, social systems, on the other hand, are socialism, socialism, which destroys genuine and effective solidarity. That is why I am opposed to a law which, instead of supporting Poles who are so eager to help refugees, through radical tax reduction, permission to get rich, removing this hunchback of socialism from their backs deepens socialism and, worse still, creates a second category of citizens. Who will be the second category of citizens in Poland? Of course Poles who will have less rights than Ukrainians. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] That's why I'm against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Concretes, not hypocrisy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u13	Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The Minister will be able to refer to this later in his statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Prime Minister! Yesterday, when we started working on this bill, I emphasized a unique break between Poles. I've presented several volunteer stories, and today I could add another one, because thousands of volunteers are thousands of stories. Prime Minister! It was the volunteers who, especially in the first days, showed the greatest mercy, the greatest solidarity, the greatest ingenuity and the greatest help. There have been voices to adopt this law as soon as possible, that there are too many amendments tabled, that there will still be a need for amendments. You often urge me to compare seismicism to sport, and in this case I will be very happy to do so. Just as in sports you must not let the thought not to overexert yourself in the first game, because in rematch you can no longer make up for the losses, so in the Seym you must work from the first moments of the project, not look for a rescue in the amendment. However, it seems that a different philosophy of lawmaking is definitely better, perhaps it is better to do everything to make such an important bill as good as possible from the beginning. It's a good thing we had nine hours of debate last night at the administration committee meeting. Many amendments have already been adopted, especially those relating to irresponsibleness. Let me remind you that these are the same amendments of the Civic Coalition and the wheels of Poland 2050. Prime Minister! Minister! Members of the governing camp, too! Do not tell the public that these regulations were introduced at the request of representatives of local governments, because it is evil, reprehensible, embarrassing, fatal propaganda. Today we make further amendments, there are 26 of them. I'm still trying to get us to do the art. 1 paragraph 1 adopted the proposed text so that the Act lays down specific rules for legalising the stay of Ukrainian nationals, stateless persons or third-country nationals other than Ukraine, stateless persons or third-country nationals other than Ukraine who are family members who have arrived in the territory Poland directly from the territory of Ukraine or another third country - in particular, Minister, Belarus, Russia or Slovakia - in connection with war activities carried out in the territory of that country. We stress all the time that the treatment of Ukrainian citizens and other displaced persons from the war region in different ways is contrary to the principle of equal treatment of similar entities, as well as the principle of humanitarianism. Once again we urge, we repeat, that the groups mentioned in our project are identical to the groups referred to (The Bell) in the decision of the Council of the European Union of 4 March 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Sroka, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday morning, from this speaker we heard that the government's merit is that there are no refugee camps in Poland. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voice from the room: That wasn't the case.]] This is not due to the government, it is due to the Polish citizens who have opened their hearts (Applause) who have been helping refugees from the war country from day one. Volunteers who help refugees from Ukraine to sweat each day also provide assistance. It is also carried by local governments, because we gave them this opportunity, building self-government for 30 years, i.e. the possibility of direct action in the immediate surroundings. Yesterday we were working on a law - more than 10 hours of work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Many amendments have been adopted in consensus, many bad rules have been thrown out. I'm talking about impunity. These records should not be included in this bill. Today we should focus on help, on how to facilitate the organisation of aid for the coming months. It is good that these records have been deleted in consensus. Of course, today we will continue to work on this bill. Many of the local authorities' demands have been reflected in the records that will continue to be examined. Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement will continue to work on this bill. It is important that today, together, with one voice, we say that the most important thing is help. Not impunity, not other bad records smuggled in. Citizens also ask us if we can afford it. Can we afford that kind of help? I think so, but Parliament will not be able to answer that, because a large part of the financing of aid is thrown out of the budget. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will manage these funds, a fund will be created without parliamentary control. I think that this should also be inclined at the moment and returned to the way public funds are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of the laws. We declare further work and believe that all of us, as we sit here, but also our citizens will not lack the desire to continue helping the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! Poland is currently at the most dangerous time since 1939. Yesterday's session of the committee showed that we are able to talk, we can work together on a law that is very important for both Poland, Poles and our fellow Ukrainian nation, which is not the fault of our own being in a tragic situation. It is very good that yesterday these two articles were removed, which talk about impunity, because unfortunately instead of dealing with this law, a large part of society called it impunity+. It is a good thing that these provisions are no longer in place because they were not acceptable in the manner in which they were presented. This law is an expression of our solidarity with refugees and a symbol of Polish openness. Ladies and gentlemen! We treat Ukrainian citizens on an equal footing with Polish citizens. We open the labour market for them, we open the benefits for them, we open our homes and our hearts. It's a good thing that's happening right now. A year and a half is a long time. Let's see what happens next. This law requires transparency, but we should allow the Sejm to oversee what is happening. Citizens should also know what orders are made outside the Public Procurement Act. This is our money together. We must also not forget that this law and what Poland, the Polish government is doing at the moment, are huge costs for our budget. We are Poles and should be interested primarily in Polish matters. It is important that the High House does not try to save the whole world at the expense of the Polish citizen. What Minister Wąsik was talking about yesterday, for which I thank you very much: not only Poland is responsible for helping Ukrainians. We expect the European Commission and other European countries to help Poland finance the aid we are providing, in connection with the tragedy that is taking place in Ukraine. We also need to talk about the costs and the prices that are... The fact that at the moment (the bell) inflation will accelerate, the prices will increase, is the result of the aggression and deliberate action of Vladimir Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Case Circle, I thank all the members of the committee, all those involved in the work of the committee, because after the results of this work we see that the law is better, it is acceptable. I think you should be very grateful. But first of all from this place the biggest thanks are due to Poles and local governments, who responded immediately, immediately offered their help, solidarity with refugees, which allowed them to be accepted under decent conditions. The refugees felt that they could be cared for here, and it allows them to look more optimisticly into the future, to think that even if they could not return to Ukraine, they would feel safe here. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers spoke a lot about the amendments that may still be introduced in this bill. She's better than she was. These disgraceful records of impunity were fortunately thrown out. I hope that they will no longer be smuggled into any law, they will not be introduced, because this is unnecessary. If someone's helping honestly, I don't think there's anything to be afraid of. So that, ladies and gentlemen, at the next committee meetings Let us accept these amendments, which the opposition is talking about, many of them can improve this law even more. We all want to vote for it, but in favour of the bill with these amendments, I think, we will be able to vote completely with a clear conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS wheel on the draft law on assistance for citizens of Ukraine. It's a very important bill and it's good that it's quickly processed that the PiS didn't insist on the already compromised COVID laws like impunity+. It is a pity that the PiS still does not want to extend the provisions of the Act to all those fleeing the war in Ukraine, that is to say, we are still still proceeding over the Act with discriminatory records of some refugees, i.e. with non-constitutional records. It is true that a cross-party agreement is needed, but it must be comprehensive, it must concern both this law, which we are now investigating, but also the Act on the Defense of the Homeland and the Act on the Elimination of the Disciplinary Chamber and the neo-KRS. Today we need EU billions more than ever, so the PiS must end the war with the European Union. There can be no more constellations of Prime Minister Morawiecki with an anti-EU, proputinist international, and yet such consorts were also in December last year, and at the end of January this year, when the government knew perfectly well from the Americans that there would be aggression on Ukraine. As far as the law on aid to Ukrainian citizens is concerned, we now have over 1 million refugees, and it is estimated that there will be up to 4 million or maybe 5 million refugees. Before the Russian-Ukrainian war there were 1 million Ukrainians in Poland who saved our labour market, and the first 1 million refugees were in some part developed by those Ukrainians who were already in Poland. Now it's really waiting for the Poles. And it is good that there will be institutional solutions. First of all, we need the knowledge that refugees represent, it is very important, because, for example, many teachers probably came with their children. Psychologists say that Ukrainian children should go to school as soon as possible. Perhaps it would be faster to organize schools in which Ukrainian teachers and teachers would teach, and children would learn Ukrainian at least this year's school. This could be done in agreement with the Ukrainian ambassador. There are many such issues that can be resolved (the bell) in a cross-party agreement, which I very much urge you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u23	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to sign up for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. You are the first question asked by Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Before I start, one important statement. Thanks to Janina Ochojska is more good in the world. [[Applause]] And someone who's like a gnome in front of a giant can't insult her. But, ladies and gentlemen, your marshal, let's get back to this bill. What we have succeeded in, the Civic Coalition, the entire opposition, decent people in the Confederation, and even in the PiS, is stopping impunity, stopping theft. These two articles, you wanted to ensure impunity. Not for this time of war, but for pandemic scams, for envelope elections, and even for Pegasus. You didn't make it. Another issue is the citizens of Belarus. They are in exactly the same situation as the citizens of Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kiev next to Vilnius and Warsaw became the main refuge for the repressed Belarusians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u25	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u26	They and the Ukrainians came to Poland, their status should be legal, they should normally function in our country. There will be such an amendment to the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. I'm asking you to keep discipline because there are a lot of questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Yesterday, after almost 10 hours, we completed our work at the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. We've improved the bill a little bit, which was rather unacceptable in the original version. During the talks, Minister Piontkowski presented various forms of support addressed both to students and to local governments. I would very much ask that Minister Piontkowski or someone from the Ministry present extensive information on the support of students, citizens of Ukraine who will attend Polish schools, and financial and material support for local governments, which will organize teaching for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u29	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the article. 72, which amends the Crisis Management Act. The following Article shall be inserted: "In a crisis situation, the President of the Council of Ministers may, either on his own initiative or at the request of the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers or of the Minister in charge of government administration, issue binding instructions: (...) 4) legal persons and organisational units without legal personality and entrepreneurs. It seems that, under the pretext of helping Ukrainian citizens, you want to extend the Prime Minister's competence permanently. He will be able to give orders to entrepreneurs, not only during a state of emergency. I ask you to explain why this provision is in this law, and whether it is necessary for it to be possible to help refugees from Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u32	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Between Poland and Ukraine there are differences in the calendars of compulsory vaccination against infectious diseases. For Ukrainian children, this may be an important problem, because in many day care institutions, the management requests the presentation of a certificate on the acceptance of a mandatory vaccination set. In view of these differences, we tabled an amendment yesterday which would result in vaccination for children already at the time of the entry into force of the Act and not only after 3 months. Unfortunately, the Minister said that such a provision was unnecessary precisely because, after these three months, the obligation would still appear. Minister, why wait? The health of children not only Ukrainian, but also Polish, who stay together in daycares is at stake. We know these kids are gonna be here long enough. Why treat it if it can be prevented? That's what the vaccinology was for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The whole world is amazed at the way we deal with such a giant wave of refugees. There are no camps, no local governments, but above all the Polish society, they stand at the level of the task and very, very many refugees live in houses, in apartments of Polish citizens. I would like to ask you about situations that may happen if some of these citizens do not want to leave these apartments in time. Are there mechanisms to ensure that these people are evicted from apartments, local hotels or submissive voivodeships? We help - and very well - but many Poles ask what will happen when someone does not want to move out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, what will education be like for refugees? We know that with this wave came also a very large number of Ukrainian teachers. Is there any chance that they could be involved in the Polish education system? Or is there a chance for them to organize Ukrainian schools so that these children can learn so that they can have access to education so that they can adapt more quickly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles are doing great at the moment. Unfortunately, there will always be black sheep who want to prey on the misfortune of the Ukrainians. Therefore, I have the following questions. How will you protect the citizens of Ukraine, but by the way and Polish citizens, from loan loans in which the APRC reaches several hundred percent, from the taxi mafia, which is already being heard about, that in Warsaw they want to take enormous amounts from mothers with children who have escaped from Ukraine? Quick solutions and institutional solutions are needed here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Minister! Surely the law on the support of Ukrainian citizens and their families is necessary, urgent and - I must say - also well-tested. On the other hand, this law imposes a number of responsibilities on local authorities: broadcasting of PESEL numbers, cases concerning assistance applications, local cases. All the offices mostly do this, also in the presence of translators, because that is also a problem. I have a question: Does the government tend to limit bureaucracy to a minimum, even by using electronic documentation? Minister! I am very happy and I am grateful for all this because it will also apply to small self-governments, which are limited in terms of their employment, but also in terms of budgetary resources. Therefore, I have a hot request that you look openly at local governments and support in their activities (the bell), even by creating additional service points just foreigners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u41	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! We're dealing with an emergency situation. People fleeing from war reach Poland. To be able to help in an organized way, it is very necessary to give tools for this. This one gives a lot, who gives a lot. Help is needed for now. Thank you to everyone who's been doing this since day one. Thank you, volunteers. Let's do everything we can to complete this bill as soon as possible. My question concerns a particular situation. Can Lubelskie and Podkarpackie voivodships, the most heavily burdened, count on additional support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u44	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In this bill there are really many good solutions, among others. solutions for aid to local authorities, which have so much been involved in aid to refugees. For this I would like to thank all the local government because they really did a great job. But I would also like to thank all Poles who have so selflessly engaged in helping war refugees from Ukraine. This is the great thing you're doing for these people. I would also like to appeal to the PiS Members not to make amendments for the so-called. impunity+. Yesterday, the work at the committee meeting was indeed substantial. The majority rejected these amendments. I therefore urge that we agree to support this law and that you do not make amendments that guarantee impunity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u45	Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u46	Does anyone in the government work for the Kremlin? Because you allowed yourselves to press two articles into the law on helping Ukrainian citizens, which guarantee impunity for crimes committed during the pandemic period. It is good that the votes of the members of the committee managed to throw these disgraceful articles out of the bill. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hundreds of thousands of Poles are involved in helping millions of Ukrainian citizens. Today they are safe in Poland, Poles are safe. But are you sure? Because we know what's going on in the government right now. We know about this uncoordinated operation by the Foreign Ministry, which is trying to inefficiently hand over planes to the Americans. Today you are putting the security of Poland and refugees, who are presently in our country. I have a question: Is anyone coordinating assistance actions for Ukraine in the Polish government? Prime Minister, I appeal (the bell) to hold it together in the end so that we are safe here. Surely a good step will be to accept the wise amendments of the opposition without discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u48	Each Pole works for about half of his life only to pay taxes, because that's how much the budget is compared to the GDP achieved by the Pole. I have a question: at the moment when you propose to offer social Poles again, pay out of the budget - and to pay out, of course, you must first take them out of your pocket - you still do not understand that much less expensive and less vulnerable to combinations, like any socialist system, would be simply a radical reduction in taxes, a photo of bureaucratic hump, regulation, various legal complications which in Poland, of course, favour large corporations in opposition to ordinary domestic entrepreneurs and citizens? Do you not realize that it is better to take off this tax hump, let Poles get rich, and then they will be able to afford more help for the needy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Spec Act creates another fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which is to operate outside the control of Parliament. Yesterday we proposed, I think, a more political minimum, namely that the financial plan of this fund should be approved by the Sejm of the Committee on Public Finance, as well as the report on the implementation of this budget. There was no clear settlement at the committee meeting, because in the case of many of these amendments there was simply a tie in terms of whether or not. So today we are making these amendments again. Really, Minister, come to them with a lot of responsibility, because it cannot be so - I do not know anything that we will change the system to a constitutional monarchy - that the Prime Minister should approve the plan, settle the plan and at the same time be its manager, because he or his ministers will mostly benefit from this fund (the bell), just as it is with the COVID fund. This is an unacceptable solution in a civilized country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u51	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u52	Exactly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the third law - after the COVID and the draft law on defence of the Homeland - which, in my opinion, makes it seem that the Polish system of law is disturbing it. In this law, as in the two above mentioned, the originators do everything they can to circumvent the law in force. The rules on the adoption of the budget are in force, the Public Procurement Act is in breach, the Penal Code is in breach. I think there's something wrong with the approach to lawmaking, and this remark, your Marshal, I dedicate especially to the rulers, because it looks really caricatureal from a certain point of view. The existing system of law should rather support and support the creation of new laws, new rights, especially in such crisis situations (the Bell) as the ones I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u53	Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Here it is worth noting what migration policy across the European Union looks like in numbers. I will not be able to reach 2021, but I will reach 2020 where there have been much more migrants than in 2021. That was close to 0.5 million, 450,000. - to all countries of the European Union. 280,000. has been accepted. That's 280 grand. this, ladies and gentlemen, is as much as Poland accepts in one weekend. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u55	Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Gentlemen of Ministers! We don't expect you to be perfect because you won't. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] But we expect you to take any initiative taken by the government with good intentions. I bow to Poles and Poles who opened their hearts and accepted war refugees in their homes. But today, Poles and Poles must make sure that every action of politicians who create the law, every action of politicians in such a difficult situation, when we are at war abroad, will be in good faith. And I call for no more such records of impunity as they have appeared, because it undermines trust in the most important people in the country that create this right. This situation can no longer occur (The Bell) because the lack of trust will cause even greater fear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to share the information I received, not for the first time. I will read to you literally, and this is particularly what I am referring to Minister Wąsik: Mrs Wąsik, I ask you to intervene on the discriminatory part of the refugees in the specialization. Many women and children fled to Poland from Russian bombs in all possible ways. Some of them, for reasons of safety, distance, did so through Slovakia, Hungary or Romania. They drove for a few days. We take care of families like this. However, the Act applies only to people who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland directly from Ukraine. They're scared, they don't know what's gonna happen to them. Their fathers, their husbands, their sons fight for their country, and they don't know what their future will be. What are we supposed to tell them? We're supposed to hide them in the basements from the police and the deportation? Hands fall off. This is the text. [[Applause]] That's the kind of information we get a lot of. I really strongly urge our country to help (the bell) and solve this problem. And just a small, not a small, very important thing. It has already been mentioned, Mr Grammar spoke about vaccinations, which is an important subject, all the more so that in Ukraine only 35% Inhabitants...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u60	...participates in a general vaccination programme. So this is really necessary for us to solve this problem too...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u61	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u62	... Of course, when there's a real possibility. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u63	Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, yesterday, the amendment on vaccinations, Madame, was rejected. Maybe today we'll change our minds. Minister! I have a question. I don't think we talked about it at the committee meeting. This is about the issue of the PESEL number. Municipal authorities will be overcrowded, they will be burdened with a great deal of work, they will not be able to settle matters for Polish citizens, and again probably criticism will fall on local governments. It can therefore broadcast a temporary PESEL, e.g. for a period of 6 months, based on a biometric passport. Such data may be verified by the Border Guard, which has in the vast majority a register of persons who have crossed the border, indicating on the basis of which documents, without biometric passports, as is the law. This will definitely make it easier to deal with this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very important and very necessary bill. 10 hours of work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs shows that we all want to help, without exception. Many of the amendments to the Law and Justice have been adopted, but it is also important to stress this today that many of the amendments that the opposition has tabled have been adopted. Everybody's helping. I call on you not to share, not bid, because everyone helps. We all support the Ukrainians at this unique time, during the war. It is also important to thank Border Guard officers, voivods: Lech Dobrzec, Eve Leniart, as well as city presidents and local governments for their work. I also draw attention to the article. 10, because here we're talking about a cash payment that will be paid on the basis of a contract. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Perhaps it is worth that this benefit be paid on the basis of an application, a simple application, which will be submitted to local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u67	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government had already known since November last year about the planned invasion of our eastern neighbours, and the draft law on helping citizens of Ukraine is only now under investigation, on the 14th day of the invasion. It's a good thing we're working on a bill that will sort things out systematically for refugees. You tried to sneak in, it's been said here many times, records about the impunity of power. Art. 82 and 71 were unacceptable and it was good that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs removed these harmful provisions. [[No way.]] [[No way.]] I have a question: Has sufficient funding been secured for students (the bell) or are these funds sufficient? Long-term policies are needed for refugees, such as health security, education, housing, working rules. Will the government be up to its task and logistically and responsible to address these refugee problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u69	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, The Polish society has open hearts since the beginning of the conflict, passed on gifts in kind, but also financial gifts. I tabled an amendment yesterday - Prime Minister, you will be very close to it - namely that the financial contributions given by citizens to NGOs, local government units, the Material Reserve Agency can be deducted from the tax base above the limit of 6% As is the case with COVID, this solution works. [[Applause]] The second issue concerns the possibility of commissioning tasks to NGOs, foundations for the organisation of free time for children from Ukraine together with our children, integration activities in the field of culture and sport. The point is that local governments can commission these tasks in a non-competition mode, which is simply quick and efficient. The local governments say that they have additional financial resources, just like the local government of Wielkopolska Voivodeship (Dzwonek), who wants to transfer funds to such classes quickly. Please consider this amendment as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u72	Thank you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The law on refugee assistance is very important and necessary because it regulates a lot of issues. Yesterday, local government officials from my county pointed out one thing, asking me to pass it on to you ministers as well. The number of Poles helps with its own heart, selflessly, and this is a large majority. But there are people who rent their apartments for a lot of money to families from Ukraine - sometimes even thousands of zlotys, which is unthinkable. These are, of course, individuals, these people -- the uncles know them -- they were already in local governments yesterday and asked for funding. On this side there is a request to make it for people who help families from Ukraine unselfishly and without any charge, so that there are no certain actions, let's call it gently, unethical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u74	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this project. It's such a very detailed passage, but I'd ask you to pay attention to it, too. If someone gives Ukrainians his apartment, where he doesn't own a household, because it's in another village, because it's like a weekend place or a rental place, he actually gives refugees help. My interlocutors with whom I raised this problem, the owners of these apartments, intend to allocate the funds they received to pay for the premises, to maintain accepted families, such as the purchase of clothing, food, medicines, books, toys for children. Therefore, would it not be clearer and more precise in this article: Any person who provides accommodation and catering to Ukrainian citizens is entitled to a cash benefit - without the wording of this article? The Polish state should support and mobilise citizens (the bell) to provide assistance, because it is to a large extent the Poles and Poles who replace the government's actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u76	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to protest against the disgraceful, disgusting words that have just come from this speaker against the great figure that Mrs. Janina Ochojska is. Such disgusting statements, such as those directed against the Zielińska messenger yesterday, should not take place from this pulpit. [[Applause]] They insult not only these people, they insult us, Members and Members of the Polish Sejm. So stop insulting people in such a disgusting way. And I have a question for the Minister about the PESEL broadcast. It is known that this task will fall on local governments. What will you do to ensure that PESEL is broadcast in such a way that it does not block or clog up the activities of local governments (the bell) that will deal with it? Will there be additional resources for this? How will this PESEL be broadcast? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try not to respond to some suggestions that may have been made here at my address, although I'll be honest with you. But to one thing I would like to address, the statement of one of the ladies who read the text, which she received, that here in one of the countries is provided assistance to the citizens of Ukraine, and they would like to get to Poland. At least that's how I figured it out. Dear Member, let us not take away these countries, let us not take away Slovakia, the Czech Republic, let us not take away from Hungary the opportunity to help the Ukrainians. [[You didn't understand anything.]] We're just doing it on the biggest scale when it comes to Europe. So let's not worry too much about these people having a problem. They also have mechanisms that can help. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill may not be perfect. She's probably gonna be changed a lot, improved a lot. Why? Since the situation in Ukraine, the situation in our region is simply unstable, it is difficult to predict everything at once. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, introducing any ideas, saying that something has to be done, that something has to be done... Ladies and gentlemen, all this is going to take money. Get that money in the European Union, let the MEPs do it... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] ...those mentioned today. Make it good. [[Unlock the billions.]] And I am making amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, which will also improve this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! At a time when Putin's regime attacked the sovereign state of Ukraine, leading to a humanitarian disaster, leading actions that will be classified as crimes against humanity, Poles stand at the level of the task. Polish families, Polish local governments receive and support our sisters and brothers from Ukraine. It is justified to adopt a law that regulates the right to financial support, legalization of the stay of Ukrainian citizens in Poland and the entire aid package. Belarus is involved in this war in the formula of the proxy, indirectly. The question is whether the government party envisages extending the catalogue of persons supported by the regime's repression of Belarusian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u81	Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish border, when fleeing the war, is exceeded not only by citizens or citizens of Ukraine. At the point of helping refugees, I see grandmothers with grandchildren, the closest family members looking after minors. And although children have Ukrainian citizenship, their closest ones are not always. I ask you not to let your grandmother be deprived of the protection her granddaughter has, in which a stepdaughter crossing the line with his stepmother and step-sister will be treated differently from his family members. I call on you to look again at our amendments and to take into account the people closest to the Ukrainians and the Ukrainians, so that you can take into account the members of their families who do not have this citizenship in various cases. Before the war, whole families flee, and in a situation where millions of people will still cross our borders, let us create such conditions to take care of each one of these families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u83	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the principles of relocation of war refugees, internal and external relocation. The first one doesn't actually exist. Refugees gather in large cities, while Poles' kindness is everywhere, and in small cities, and in villages. They don't know it, and they're afraid to go somewhere where it's full of unknowns. There is a need for systematic information about where they can go, where they can turn, to which local government, in which village they are already expected. There is no such information in points or in the media. There is also a large lack of external information. Many institutions and citizens of other European countries ask: Can we invite the Ukrainians? Can the Ukrainians come to us? Maybe the Italians' behavior is exemplary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the moment, three buses will be arriving soon. They want to take the Ukrainians to Piedmont. That's the other thing. I'll ask for a written reply. One last question. It was here, your marshal, a lot of speeches, many people were talking about the education of children, about having children go to school. This is very important, but it is equally important to offer Polish language to adults, mothers, because after a fast, intensive course, I believe, after 3 months they will communicate freely and they could start working. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u85	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u86	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers! High Izbo! The Left Club has tabled an amendment to allow 100 percent of the reimbursement of medicines and medical devices to those who have nothing. People who escaped from the war, people who escaped from houses where bombs fall, people who heard shots when they were fleeing, taking care of their safety and their children - these people are now in Poland. They do not have a zloty on them, which is why their inclusion in the Polish health system is something that the Polish state should do. But we should go one step further. These people don't have the money to co-pay for drugs. We're talking about oncology patients, cardiologically, neurologically. They need our help. We do not want to provide this to all, we only want to provide this to those who would qualify for (the bell) social assistance and social assistance. Let's help them heal, take care of their health and their lives. Let us help them as we can, just as we would like them to help us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u88	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I call for better coordination of voivodship activities at the stations. Yesterday it was the loudest about Warsaw, but I get information that the chaos also concerns Wrocław or Krakow. It can't really be that people have been squatting on the floor for a few dozen hours. We already have 1,300,000. We're in need. And basing on the volunteers and local governments you've cut off will soon lead to a humanitarian disaster. So I ask you, when are you going to ask the Union and the UN for help, for the relocation of refugees to other countries? I know you're embarrassed because you didn't agree to the $5,000 party in 2015. refugees. However, the scale of the challenges is very different today. The war in Ukraine is one of the biggest disasters, which is why we need to act quickly and effectively on the international stage. No country can deal with such a great crisis alone. [[We'll be fine.]] [[You can see it at the train station.]] And that's your problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u89	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Poles and Poles have shown a great heart in recent days, opened their wallets, deserves as much applause as possible. The fact that locals work 24 hours a day to save our brothers, our sisters from Ukraine, also deserves a big applause. But the time for this break is running out, and now it's time for institutional help and support. That's why I'd like to ask you a specific question. What kind of money can government officials expect in the near future? What measures have you taken, the state of government, to unlock this enormous money from the European Union, which could also go to aid for refugees? And what money will the city of Łódź get under this support, which every day with great determination receives new citizens of Ukraine, gives them a roof over their heads (The Bell) and helps them with all their strength? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u92	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am glad that the Geneva Convention began to apply at the border of Poland with Ukraine, but it would be good if it also applied at the border with Belarus. The Polish state must be fair and consistent. I am pleased that today we are discussing a law that can help refugees, refugees and those who help them in the coming months, but this law is directed solely at helping citizens and citizens of Ukraine. What about the Belarusians and Belarusians who had recently fled from Lukashenka? What about students of a non-Ukrainian nationality? These are thousands of people who run from the same war and require the same help. How can you divide them into better and worse? These are the people who are really in the same situation. I believe these are errors that we will correct thanks to the amendments of the Civic Coalition, PSL, Left, Poland 2050. And I hope that we can count on the cooperation and support of these amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Helping all in need is a matter of elementary decency and humanity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u93	You're welcome, ma'am. Mr Kalet, I ask you to remain calm. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, an extremely needed and expected project is an attempt to answer and challenge our Polish society. It is estimated that the aid envisaged in this project is close to PLN 3.5 billion, and may be more. Unfortunately, in such situations, there is a risk of abuse of power. The exclusion of public procurement law will result in a number of expenditures, unfortunately, outside the guarantee of control. The grants mentioned in the Act should also remain under social control. Ladies and gentlemen! It's powerful public money, maybe even bigger. The stream of their participation should be transparent, transparent and should not raise any doubts. I therefore ask: Do you assume to publish and update the list of entities and the amount of support provided (the bell) that will be available on government websites, as well as detailed information on where and what specific aid will be granted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u96	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Community, the Polish state right today, is really in solidarity with Ukraine, including all we can all do to help with this most important challenge since the end of World War II. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I address these words to Minister Wąsik and to this part of the room: finally withdraw from these scandalous records of the impunity of the PIS, the impunity that really destroys this sense of community and destroys this common great work that we did objectively yesterday. Millions of Poles help, thousands of people every day in NGOs, local governments, government and local government together, but this record destroys it. Get out of this because it's destroying the Polish community. That's one thing. And secondly, I wanted to thank hundreds of thousands of Polish volunteers, who have been helping from those 8 days and nights. I used to go to the border in Kościenko, one of those help buses. Thank you, everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I ask you to accept an amendment that will support NGOs in providing humanitarian aid. Please accept this amendment, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The unprecedented aid provided by the Polish society, the solidarity that we expressed with the Ukrainian society, is just one element of civil society construction, which must be aware that the refugee crisis that occurred in Europe a few years ago is nothing compared to the number of people who come to Poland. That is why it is so important that government support is directed directly to local governments. Not only Warsaw, not only the capitals of voivodships, but such cities in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship as Inowroclaw, Tuchola, Znin. Everywhere people help, local governments help and stand up to the task. However, they will not last long without government support, which is why the great request to see the work of local government officials and direct help to them, but also to increase the mobilization of voivodships, who today do not all the problematic things solve, does not always work quickly. Their support is essential. Thus, this government hand, which will support local governments, is very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to see the Parliamentary Group on behalf of the European Parliamentary Group. Belarus strongly urge all members of all groups to cover Belarusian refugees with the benefits of the specialty for refugees, victims of the war in Ukraine. I would like to say that today, beyond our eastern border, there are two countries: Belarus, which is already under Russian occupation, and Ukraine, which is fighting this occupation. That's the only difference. Both these nations deserve full support from the Republic of Poland. Both these nations deserve to find their safe home in Poland. The way we are helping refugees from Belarus today is good for peace, and we are dealing with war refugees today. We need solutions for the war. And these solutions, Minister, bring the specialty. Together we have done a great programme of Solidarity with Belarus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to appeal... Today, solidarity with Belarus means adding Belarusians to the benefit of this specialty. I'm really looking forward to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we showed that we could work together beyond any division in terms of protecting Ukrainian citizens. However, as a Podlaskie Member, I would like to appeal to the Minister not to forget the Belarusian people, who are also fleeing from the Lukashenka regime, because they are being repressed in their own country. We must live in harmony with our neighbours: the people who are suffering from Putin and Lukashenka. Free Ukraine, free Belarus, free Poland. Minister, thank the bordermen for the work they've been through for the last time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Effective assistance for refugees will depend, among others. from their even deployment in the country. This is demonstrated by the situation of large cities, in particular Warsaw, Wrocław and Cracow, which are currently exhausting their reception capacity for refugees. In a law that modifies the crisis management system, there are no solutions for relocation. That's a serious downside. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 On the other hand, we read: the voivode can provide assistance to the citizens of Ukraine, i.e.: it can provide assistance, not: it provides assistance. These records are probably inspired by the attitude of the Mazowieckie voivode Konstanty Radziwiłł. There is no obligation on the list of what the voivode does or does not have to do. Why? What's in return? The system of giving orders to local governments - without discussion, without justification, execute. Using the method: the rusks of swiss towards local governments, which are still catching up on the distance of government administration, will not get far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another sentence, Marshal. The relocation mechanism is a necessity. Minister, please engage in a dialogue with the big cities before your voivod starts giving orders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u105	Please, Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. [[But in the war, there are orders.]] [[But how you have knowledge and authority, not how you're a buffoon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The municipalities, as you know, have, on their own initiative, mobilised a very wide range of assistance. They organized 24-hour help places in cultural centers, common rooms, showrooms, sports halls, exercise rooms, providing support, standing on the front line, on the outskirts of help. I am talking about border communities, cities such as Przemyśl, Rzeszów, Urzzyki Dolne, Lubaczów, Oleszyce and many, many others. They organize trips with refugees, organized logistics teams and volunteers. It's all cost-effective, it's financial. These are very expensive projects. These governments and many, many other cities - and all cities - will not be able to cope with all these tasks in the long term. Urgent and consolidated, structured state aid is needed on these issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What assistance, Minister, is envisaged for cities which, in this first stage, have incurred costs for the implementation of aid objectives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! At first, I wanted to stress that nine hours of work on this bill had passed in a good atmosphere despite the difference of views on certain issues. Unfortunately, there was little time to talk about all the issues, because we had 104 articles and the belief that today we had to continue the bill in the plenary room. We have failed to convince - and I very much regret - the introduction of the Sejm's control of the spending of budgetary resources. These are public funds and we have no right not to control how they are spent. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is even such a provision - the entire article is devoted to it - that changes to the financial plans of the Labour Fund are not subject to control. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question for you... I very much regret that Prime Minister Kowalczyk left because I have a question for the Prime Minister: Why is it that you, who is familiar with public finances, who cared about these finances, allow such dangerous records to be introduced into the bill? The consequences of this may be unpredictable. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u109	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the pages of the Office for Foreigners, on the pages of the voivodship offices there is information that all persons fleeing Ukraine from armed conflict do not need to register at reception points or worry about formalities. No person fleeing Ukraine and seeking refuge in Poland has to fear for the legality of his stay. Meanwhile, the European Council and this procedated special act provide for temporary shelter for Ukrainian citizens and for those who had a permanent residence card in Ukraine. As we know, citizens fleeing Ukraine who are not Ukrainians who were there because they were studying because they fled Belarus because they fled Yemen because they fled Afghanistan and had a regulated status there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a request to the Minister to regulate the issues of their stay in Poland, because they are currently reading that they do not have to worry about formalities, but formally they have only two weeks to leave Poland, and we do not want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u112	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by thanking millions of Poles and Poles, but also citizens of Ukraine who live in Poland, as well as Polonia, who in the last two weeks have strongly supported war refugees. Only thanks to this universal social break, as well as the support from local governments, have we been able to provide support, care and safe accommodation for millions of our neighbours. We're investigating a bill. It is indeed late, but better late than never. Many things have been improved, but there are still issues that need to be clarified. I do not understand why there is a distinction between Ukrainians, Belarus and other citizens who are fleeing the same war. It is unacceptable to include in this Act the possibility for the Prime Minister to issue binding orders to entrepreneurs. In a time of solidarity, we would expect understanding, dialogue, and support (the Bell) rather than knee-pressing. The issue of support for local government, the increase in education subsidies - this is all ahead of us, these challenges will grow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u114	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Staying in Poland is not only a privilege, but also an obligation, which is why I believe that the chief health inspector, when announcing the preventive vaccination programme in 2022, should also include Ukrainian citizens and all those who are fleeing from Ukraine's territory to Poland from the war. Speaking of these protective vaccinations, I mean vaccinations against tuberculosis, hepatitis B, measles, mumps, rubella. We want those people who are looking for shelter in Poland, who are looking for safety, to be safe in terms of their health and their future. The left has tabled an amendment in this respect and we hope that it will be included in this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Poles who have opened their hearts to refugees from Ukraine, refugees of different nationalities who have come from Ukraine and who they really want to help with their whole heart. But I also want to thank the local authorities, who have been very much involved in helping these refugees. Minister! Therefore, I have a question: Why are there such vague provisions in the Act concerning e.g. reimbursement of aid costs incurred by local authorities? I'm just going to quote one of the records that says that for example. The provision of a psychologist is one of the tasks of the municipality's own and - attention - can be financed from the state budget. There's more like that. It can be, so it doesn't have to be financed from the state budget. How do you imagine that local governments that carry a really heavy burden when it comes to helping refugees (the Bell) will carry that burden on? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u117	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Czerniak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Poles and Poles passed the test. They passed the exam with help, with great heart, with great solidarity. This exam was also passed by local authorities. It's the local governments, thanks to their resources, who help refugees. I'm from Lublin Voivodeship. It borders Ukraine, as you know. Today, these border authorities, the municipality of Horodło, the municipality of Włodawa, but also others, the town of Lublin or the municipality of Dzwola, help with their own forces. It must be said that whether they receive funds from the state budget or not, they do so. Ladies and gentlemen! It's your turn tonight. Today the Polish state must help. Referring to this laughter from the PiS Member, who had just smiled under his nose and his earlier statement, I would like to say, honourable Member, that the question of my colleague from the club regarding the transition of Ukrainian citizens through Romania, Slovakia or Slovenia did not concern us with whether these governments would help. It concerned whether those Ukrainians who crossed the border would come to Poland and whether the Polish state would take care of them here. Don't trivialize it, really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u120	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Members working for 10 hours in committee who have contributed to the removal of these shameful articles. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 82 on impunity for criminals. It was really extremely inappropriate to include in the bill, which concerns helping people during the war, an article that was supposed to guarantee impunity for criminals. Thank you so much for that. Helping can't be an excuse to steal. But there is another important thing to do in this bill, namely transparency, transparency, legality. Let us make sure that the money spent is controlled by the Polish Parliament. This is the second law we are working on, in which you are afraid of such control and transparency. This, of course, is a rhetorical question: Why are you afraid of controlling the Sejm's expenses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Yes, thanks should be made to Poles, especially Poles, for their great heart and help, which they provide to refugees from Ukraine every day. You have to thank the local government because they're the ones who stood up first to give this help to organize something to get it all together. Minister! Today inflation is rampant in Poland, expensive. The lack of financial compensation for local governments did not stop their support. Today, local government officials are still on line one. Even this law transfers many competences and many responsibilities to these entities, to local authorities. Question: "What funds do you want to organize and give them in full?" Will you also compensate them for the lost income in the form of taxes you took from them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another question: Today transport companies carry goods, also carry refugees from the border to the border. The price of ethine has increased to 7.62 PLN, diesel fuel...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u123	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u124	...tonight is PLN 8.86. We're talking wholesale prices. I wanted to ask the Minister: How does this law support entrepreneurs in this humanitarian aid? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u126	Dear Marshal! From this tribune to all Poles there must be thanks for the assistance given to Ukrainians fleeing the war, thanks to citizens, for volunteers from relief organizations, for local governments, but also for those who in the protests solidarityized against those fighting for the freedom of Ukrainians. Isn't the government, in the context of this huge help, this great heart of Poles, ashamed of putting laws on impunity+ in the project, and is it really going to pull out of it? The government complained that there was no coordination for 14 days. They were standing at the station every day, and they didn't have any government or voivodship help. So I ask: Who will be the coordinator at government level on aid issues? Will the voivodships really coordinate and cooperate with local governments from now on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the money gonna be for local governments? And will there be public expenses? Mrs. Marshal! Two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u127	No, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u128	These Ukrainians, who cross the border through Slovakia, must also be helped. That's what we're asking. Will the citizens who were in Poland before the start of the war be able to benefit from refugee status before the war? Thank you very much. Thanks to all Poles who helped the Ukrainians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u129	Mrs... I would like to ask you for time discipline. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We have just learned that the PiS Members have tabled an amendment that restores the rule protecting corrupt officials... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...a recipe that absolves them of even the crimes they committed earlier during the pandemic. [[Voice from the hall: Hyenas!]] You're disgusting. [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u131	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u132	I appeal to the majority of the Sejm: don't put your hand in it. I don't know who was behind the amendment made by Mr... [[Now we know who.]] ...but, Minister, you will be under the responsibility of covering for criminals. The time of war is always the time of heroes, but unfortunately it is often the time of different cheaters and bastards. Don't get into the second category. I also call on the government not to use the war in Ukraine to reduce democracy in Poland. Don't make a Polish banana republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that the Sejm controls government spending distinguishes democratic countries from countries like Russia, so stop taking sides with Putin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u133	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are over 1 million refugees in Poland. Mostly women and children, seniors who run from bombs that run from the crutches of Putin Russia. Today we are working on a project on solidarity towards Ukraine. This is an opportunity to say thanks to the Poles and Poles for empathy, help and shelter, to local governments, which as usual stand at the level of the task. Minister! Last night two mothers and seven children arrived in Lower Silesia, whose fathers are fighting for the freedom and independence of Ukraine. Everyone's scared and tired of a couple of days of wandering around. Today they are taken care of, rest safely, but they have crossed the border in Slovakia. We are investigating a project that says that aid will be given to those refugees who, after 24 February, crossed the border directly with Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We tabled an amendment that deletes the word directly. Please accept it or at least accept those refugees who escaped the war and found safety before the law entered into force. Sir, I'm asking you to do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u136	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have a question: What about the revision of the state budget and what is the actual state of public finances? We all know the state budget is fiction. We also know that we have 35 funds over which Parliament has absolutely no control, financed outside the budget. The aid fund is to be financed primarily from this bogus state budget either - or - and - actually from BGK bonds, and this is in the interest of the State, so that it is a reliable state budget to fund the fund, even at the expense of a larger deficit and debt. That's what we all agree to. It is also worth considering the fact that this is a much cheaper way of financing, because what are (the bell) the profitability of government bonds and what are the profitability of BGK bonds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u138	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my highest respect, appreciation and thank all those who have so beautifully supported and continue to support our friends from Ukraine. The exam of humanity as Poles has so far passed six. It should be fair to say that the biggest burden of support and assistance was taken on by ordinary Poles, volunteers, NGOs and local governments. I live 20 kilometers from the border, meet these people every day. Today, Minister, it is extremely important that coordination be at last. Coordination, coordination, coordination again. We do not know what will happen outside our eastern border today, so the Polish government should be prepared for different scenarios. And one last thing. If the PiS wants to be credible, you can't do last-minute silly indictments about impunity. This should never have happened in this Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u139	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When the wind of history blows, people like beautiful birds grow wings, while the pants of the nipples shake. Ladies and gentlemen, I see the wings of the heroic soldiers of Ukraine growing. To all those people who help refugees from Ukraine, they also grow wings. On the other hand, when I hear that someone is bringing back an amendment of impunity for those who rule for breaking the law under the pretext of war, I have the impression that this is a disgrace, it is a disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask one thing: Where are the people responsible for solving the crisis that is currently prevailing in Poland? Where's the voivode? Ladies and gentlemen, we were at the Central Station yesterday, we saw what real refugee care looks like, but we also saw that in Torwar - I don't know if you know - volunteers still provide food. Therefore, I believe it is important that this law makes it very clear that it is the voivode, the government is responsible for the assistance. And the (Bingle) that Poles grew wings, I congratulate them very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u141	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The war in Ukraine has been going on for 2 weeks, since 14 days Ukraine has been heroic and - what is extremely important - effectively defending itself against a bandit attack, and for 14 days Poles and Poles, local governments and NGOs have been bringing daily help, collecting gifts, food, spending meals, delivering people from the border. And I ask: Where is the Polish government? Minister, there is no coordination, there is no work of the Polish government. To say you're acting like a fire department is too much. Because when we knew about this, it was said for weeks that there would be a fire in the form of a conflict in Ukraine, you waited 11 days from the outbreak of the war until this bill was filed. The fire department is on their way to put out the fire immediately, and when the fire breaks out, you're just wondering what to do with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a lot of necessary records in this bill. There's 1,300 grand waiting for her. people in Poland. I hope today, without the scandalous record of the impunity of your officials, we will approve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all Poles very warmly for their commitment and solidarity in these difficult times. Really Poles, Polish citizens passed the test in the situation that is happening. Of course, Polish citizens will not do everything. A law is needed, the work of the state is needed. That's why it's a good thing we're proceding her. I have a few questions, though. First, crossing the border through the transition with Slovakia, from Ukraine to Slovakia, then to Poland. Why don't we treat these people the same way? After all, someone can just go the long way and have a family here. Secondly, the date of entry - 24 February as the border date. What if someone came a little earlier because he already knew what was gonna happen because he already had a hunch? Why are we ruling them out? Third, the record of forcing entrepreneurs to do anything. This is ridiculous. Entrepreneurs are helping as few people at the moment, and many of them are really hard-experienced by the situation with COVID. Those who can, help, why try to force them to do anything? Another one. Take your (Bingle) voivodeships in hand, because there is a hell of a hell at the stations. And finally, I hope it's just a rumor that it's a lie that you won't restore the record of impunity+, because if you do, it'll be a disgrace and a scandal to use such things in the war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u145	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! We are witnessing a beautiful attitude of Poles and Poles, but today they expect your support. This support should be included in this bill, which is why I urge you, Minister, to take our amendments into account. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 delete words: directly from the territory of Ukraine. Let's not differentiate war refugees. And in the article. 10 there can be no provision that the State may reimburse the cost of living for 2 months. The State must finance this cost for 2 months, there can be no doubt here, it must be a clear, legible and unambiguous declaration. Instead of making such amendments, you are preparing an amendment on impunity, you want to prey again on the misery of people. You just want to make a deal, it's a disgraceful behavior. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, it is true that Polish society has passed the exam of humanity once again, with great generosity, with open hearts. But ministers, Minister, the time has come for you, for the government, which, in addition to this law, must already create a system of support, coordinated, so that the roles of government, government, government, NGOs and all others who support Ukrainians at this moment, because the crisis is just beginning. There are such humanitarian support systems in the world, and they can be modelled. Do it, don't focus your attention on securing your colleagues' impunity. Do it. And my second huge request. Indeed, many Ukrainians have crossed the border (the bell) - it is about connecting families - through Slovakia, are mothers with small children in my Podbeskidzie, also elsewhere, in various parts of Poland, and ask for solutions. Is there such a solution for them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki submitted this bill and we all hoped it would be a project about helping Ukrainian citizens who expect us to support, help, shelter. It turns out that the most important provision in this project is to legalize abuse of power. Yesterday, the committee threw that record away. But today, an amendment of the PiS politicians signed by your Marshal Terletsky has just come in so that this record of impunity can be found. Minister! I would like to say one thing, in 2020 the Russian Pride adopted provisions on impunity for several politicians, for life, for Putin too. You're going the exact same way in this case. You want to do nothing for yourselves and for your politicians. We don't have our permission to do that, and we're gonna do everything we can to find the majority in this room. I would also like to say that in this case (the bell) came out of the bag. It's not about helping you, it's about getting impunity for all of them - because this bill works backwards - who did the best business outside the law...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u152	...except for the procedures and the pandemics, and now who knows if they're gonna get rich in this conflict. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're disgusting, Darek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u153	Thank you very much. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At the moment, bombs are falling into Ukraine, children are dying, women are fighting heroes and heroes for freedom, also for our freedom. All over Poland volunteers and volunteers, local government officials, people of good will work to help and to save. At the same time - I already understand these empty piS benches - the government wonders about its impunity. And there's so much to do. You could've been decent for once, and it didn't work again. How is the problem of education of children solved, the question of what language they will learn, what history, how will we teach them Polish, how will we integrate them? Where's the psych eval? What about vaccination issues? The answers are unsatisfactory. And what did you come up with? To commercialize the help. Help should go directly to Ukrainians and Ukrainians. Poles who help (the bell) deserve respect, tax relief and support, while money must follow the needy rather than the hands of different people. Minister! That's a big request. At the stations, we see crooks, untruthful people. Send the servants there because they're using war victims. I know you can, even though you can't stop your sticky hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Poles once again prove to the rulers, prove to the world that they know what solidarity is. These are the wonderful moments we're experiencing. But we must also remember that with a great wave of refugees come to our country the youngest, those who cannot take care of themselves. It is estimated that NGOs estimate that it will be around 50-60 thousand. children from children's homes. Sometimes they come to Poland without carers. The Act provides for certain arrangements in this regard. It is important to monitor whether the solutions adopted will meet the expectations (the bell), but above all whether the local governments will receive the funds to carry out...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u158	...care for the youngest victims of this disgraceful war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u159	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, we should pay tribute to Poles, individual citizens, to local governments, who practically started to support refugees from Ukraine in the first hours after the outbreak of the war. The government wakes up at the latest and today we're talking about the bill. In this law in Article. 2 is located, among others. a writing about the so-called. legal entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland. The problem is - and I have this message from the refugee office, from the refugee department - the problem is, Minister, that you do not define what it means: legal crossing the border. Is this about someone crossing the border or is it about having documents? Because there are two different interpretations. And now the question is, what about those who pass not on the biometric passport, they don't have a visa. Sometimes it happens that they don't have any passports at all, like children do. So, how are you gonna qualify for this legality... [[Voice from the hall: All who flee from war are legal.]] ...because there is no (Bingle) consistent interpretation today in this matter? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Is it? Where? [[Voice from the Chamber: You have not read it, Mr Pontylius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u161	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We, creating a specialty, have to look long-term. Good preparation and good implementation are needed. It's like a marathon. We all know that help is the most important thing right now. Since the attack on Ukraine, local governments and tens of thousands of volunteers deserve a medal. Applause and thanks for their commitment, cooperation, dedication, sacrifice and ingenuity. Thanks to them, we do not have refugee camps in Poland. Thank you. Poles accept Ukrainian citizens as their sisters, as their brothers, as their families. It is therefore very likely that they will also have a warm reception at work. And that's why it's important that they're headed there according to their qualifications. Therefore, the application submitted to the municipality should be extended to include information about the profession, qualifications and education of children. It's been chaos for days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A million people have arrived. The aid must be coordinated and structured...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u164	Marshal, one more moment, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u165	But you're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u166	Today is not the time for civil servants to be impunityd, but it is time to think about accommodations, accommodations. High Izbo, today the tourist industry can make thousands of beds available, especially now that it's low season, but what if it's high season?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u167	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u168	40 zlotys isn't enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u169	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u170	There are many children among refugees. They will be given a PESEL number, so they will be allowed to be members of our sports clubs according to the regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Madam, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u172	Will they also be able to participate in our competition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u173	Madame, I am so sorry. I'm very sorry, but you've been out of time a minute. Mr Adam Szłapka... [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, I'm sorry, I just wanted to complete two amendments.]] Okay, thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the face of this great tragedy, Poles behave really wonderfully. Solidarity is amazing, Poles carry great help to the Ukrainians on their shoulders. Today, the government's job is to behave decently. This amendment on impunity is not decent. It's a good thing we're talking about this bill. I hope that the Minister will not want to support this shameful amendment. I have some specific questions that I have received from refugees and directly from people fleeing Ukraine. The first thing to change is the deadline for September 24. I am already abstracting from the fact that the real aggression of Russia on Ukraine has been going on since 2014, and that is the fact, after all we know, that the Crimea has been occupied, that part of Donbas has been occupied. These are the people who fled, expecting conflict, or war found them in Poland and could not return. So this is something that needs to be changed. The second thing that is not covered by this law (the bell), and this is a question that I think the Polish government should raise, is the systematic support for refugees from Ukraine who bring here, to Poland, all savings. They bring these savings in hryvnia and have nothing to do with them. Here we need the support of the Polish government and I hope that the government will take care of it as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u175	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u176	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of excitement from this debate, different types. Maybe I should start by saying it would be good for us to at least read this bill before we ask a question. Because if I hear the question, will there be money for local governments, e.g. From Mr Grabarczyk... This bill is about the fact that there's money for local governments. [[Applause]] That's what this bill is about. PLN 7.9 billion. [[Voice from the room: What?]] 7.9 billion PLN, most of which will go to local governments. What's most of it? I don't know, but in the form of... After all, this bill gives... [[That's what the question was.]] Why don't you ask me what's the title of the bill? This bill is about it. He says we're gonna finance medical benefits, finance education, it's all going... Education goes to local governments. We will finance maintenance, food and other tasks related to this, such as transport, logistics, etc., because we see that self-government is an extremely important element in the crisis management chain that we are dealing with, but not the only one. Not the only one. Ladies and gentlemen! There will be resources for local governments. There's voivodship coordination - huge work. Let me remind you, on February 24th, there was a war in Ukraine at 3 p.m. 4 Polish time. About an hour. At 6:00 a.m., the warlords received orders from the minister-in-chief sitting here, who just left... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] There it is. About an hour. 10, 11 have already established reception centres. There's already been work, there's already been a reception of the first people. And so it is, this help is being developed all the time. You say there's a crowd and a mess at Central Station. If trains come from Przemyśl, where there are 2,000 instead of 600 people, because that is the need, it must be crowded. There must be chaos because one wants to go to Berlin, the other wants to go to Łódź, and most want to stay in Warsaw, they don't want to move because they're running away from the horrors of the war. Let's get this straight. [[There's 30,000 in Przemyśl. People.]] Over half a million, sir. [[Every day.]] [[Voice from the room: It's normal.]] It's over half a million and it'll go through even more. And I have a huge request: if you could sit down and listen to me! [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell at us!]] [[I'm not gonna sit here and...]] [[Sit down!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You have to go out there, go out there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u177	I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: And here's what I'm going to say: there were a lot of questions. I understand, we've been discussing some in committee, where some moments were better, some moments were worse. But I wanted to tell you that Poles will not understand some amendments, because Poles see war in Ukraine, Poles do not see war in Belarus. I wanted to tell you, although I know your good intentions, Mr Tyszkiewicz, I know that these are good intentions, that no Belarusian who came to Poland after August 2020 did not refuse to help. You know that, too, don't you? Except this bill is extraordinarily dedicated to the war in Ukraine. We can't give all our neighbors powers like those poor people who run from war. [[Voice from the room: And rightly so.]] I know your intentions, but the Poles will not understand. And in order not to put out those hot hearts, we need to adopt rules that will be understandable. Yesterday, Mr Protas set a great example, he said: it is good that Poland sends medicines and dressings to Ukraine, despite the fact that there is a ban on drug exports. Is it? There it is. You want us to send in the meds? We do, because there's a war, it saves lives and health. And that's what those laws were for, which you're trying to get out of the bill. So that those deciding on such matters have legal certainty. [[Voice from the room: What?]] Because today is enthusiasm, and next month you will go with notices to the prosecutor's office that someone has taken drugs out of Poland against the applicable law. [[Applause]] That's the point. [[Room voice: Bravo, Maciej! Bravo!]] This is your example, Mr Protas, your example. You're well aware of that. As soon as the committee decides, the court decides... Sejm, I'm sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[A voice from the courtroom: He should be court-martialed.]] If your marshal would allow it, because there are still a lot of issues I'd like to address. Please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Another issue - this is raised by many of you - is a direct entry into Poland. Why do we not accept, give the same powers to those who have entered Slovakia, Hungary or Romania? Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the European Union, all of us are governed by the Geneva Convention, not only Poland, but also Slovakia, including Hungary and Romania. I am convinced that these countries are providing appropriate assistance to refugees who are fleeing the war. I'm sure of it. We can't give everything we give. Because we give, ladies and gentlemen, to the Ukrainians more than the European Union demands of us. The European Union has introduced temporary protection. Those who come to us from Slovakia - Ukrainians through Slovakia - will also have large rights resulting from temporary protection. They certainly have the same rights in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Germany, Spain, throughout the Union. Let's remember that. We give more, we pay more for it, too, understand that. What about EU aid? The measures declared at the moment, please forgive me, but they are absolutely insufficient. Few, as far as I know, are the forces in the Union, which you probably know perfectly well, which demand cutting funds for Poland, sanctions for Poland, non-payment of funds. You have an influence on them because they're your friends. Make it different. It cannot be that you demand more money so that we spend more money and, on the other hand, in Brussels, you demand sanctions on Poland. It can't be like this. [[It's for Ziobra, Minister, that's a remark.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This is political schizophrenia, sir. [[To Ziobra with that attention.]] [[Le Pen's not our friend.]] [[Voice from the room: Disciplinary Chamber.]] I would like to say this: this situation is emotional. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I'm aware of that, but there are certain things we need to talk about without emotion. I admit that we have to do these extraordinarily issues of things that protect. Our proposed amendments today make a register of all expenditure related to the fund to make it public. Everything we spend without PHP will be on the Internet, you will be able to X-ray any contract. As far as this is concerned, you can be safe, as long as we accept these amendments, of course. We'll recommend that these adjustments be made. I recommend that you consider local government officials, officials, presidents of many companies who are currently spending money to help Ukraine, although in theory they can harm these companies because they have no profit. One more thing I'm gonna say. There's no way to indulge any thieving. No way. No corruption is covered by any countertype. [[Applause]] Only those where I acted against my budget, and I helped that, contrary to the export ban, I had taken away drugs. But not for the benefit of the estate. That's our intention. [[Voice from the O.R.: To save...]] Let's work on these things, if you think it should be different, that these records should sound different. But it is important to give legal security to local government officials and officials, such as the voivodships, who spend the money they have for something else, to help refugees. Because that's the need. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you one last thing, because there are many amendments, but read them, because if we accepted some amendments, it would lead very quickly to the reversal of moods in Poland, that Poles, instead of considering the Ukrainians as guests who need to be helped, refugees, will be hostile, or at least a large part of them. Because any too much privilege for them will cause such reactions. That's why we won't support 100%. reimbursement of medicines. We're not gonna support that. Therefore, we will not support exceptional discounts in the municipalities when renting apartments. We're not gonna support that. I'll admit, it seemed like we had some sort of agreement in certain things. It is known that doctors, nurses come to Poland, which we can immediately absorb on the Polish medical market. Okay? Okay. Then why are you making an amendment and voting for the one that cancels the bill? Poland 2050 introduced such an amendment as I know life, in second reading the same, and the Civic Platform supported this amendment. Do you want to do this to shut down the medical market in Poland, the labour market? [[Voice from the room: What are you afraid of?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What we support is made up of amendments and there is no...]] No, no, sir. Let me put it this way: our records are clear, and your records prevent us from achieving this goal. I'm asking you to analyze it and not do it that way. [[Voice from the room: Then read these amendments.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Working on this bill, I have adopted this principle: if it is a good, wise amendment of the opposition, then I accept it. And as you see an amendment that I do not support, you must be in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]] [[But you don't know our amendments.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I've read your amendments, every one of them. [[But when, how did we put them together just now?]] Mrs. Marshal! Forgive me for not answering all the specific questions. We still have a debate ahead of us, and it's time for us to rush. I would like this bill to be passed today, because these people need it, and so do local government officials need this money, these resources, these instruments. And I would like you, please, not to make a policy out of it, just as some of you are trying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Same to you.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing... Excuse me, do you still want to speak? Not anymore, is it, sir? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Voice from the room: Please correct mode.]] Mr President, there will be further discussion in a moment. [[Your Marshal, may I have another one?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome. [[Thank you.]] Mr Siepier - rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u179	Gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u180	Before us, there will be work after second reading in a moment. These are the applications submitted by all the clubs. There are a lot of these conclusions. What Minister Wąsik said: we listen carefully, we look closely. But, as rapporteur, let me make a few comments on the procedure, because we are proceeding on this bill. It is very happy that we all agree on one thing in this Chamber: we thank everyone who helps our neighbours, the Ukrainians, and we do not make any differences here. It's a big deal, and I hope it stays that way. Let's hope it stays that way so we don't find any differences here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it is constructed, this is the structure and in this law it also exists. There's kind of a domino element. At first, people react, and that's what happens. Then local governments come in, and that's what happens. It is about local government, district government, voivodship. This government has been coordinating all the time, from the very beginning, as was also mentioned in the Minister's statement. What's the difference between government and government? The government can, the government must, because it is the duty of the state. [[Applause]] There is no decision here in which he can tell himself, the Prime Minister or the Minister that he has no time, he has no other option, etc. Let's not try harder, ladies and gentlemen, differences. People are expecting help. The scale is huge. I know what it looks like in my county, where there's a huge helping element going into thousands of people. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us work through this to the end in the manner that Minister Wąsik asked for. The point is to look for good solutions, not just political elements or whispers. And if this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, today from our parliament, or from the Sejm, will come out this bill that local governments are waiting for. They say today: we have signed contracts, we don't know what to do. And local government officials come forward, people who accept proposals and say: they have different stakes, and you have different stakes in the bill. The Minister said that until this is changed, there will be the same stakes, but you can't leave these people properly in suspense. Let's end this through this compromise and go to the people to help them, and the people, and the residents, and the locals, and the government. But the government proposes that Parliament accept it. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally: what war looks like, it is probably in Poland that everyone knows either from history or from autopsy, because there are also many people who survived it. During this time and in these threats we have lived for many years. Today, this concerns our neighbors. Let us not do this - this is an essential element for everyone - let us not differ in this matter, because this is war. It's not a question of political disagreement, it's a war, and we're helping. And today the Polish government, local governments and Poles want to help and help by spending huge money. And let's not do it here -- once again I appeal -- differences, let's finish this job, let's put it to trial, and today let's vote this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u181	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Members: Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Marek Sowa, Marek Rząsa, Jacek Protas, Waldemar Sługocki, Waldy Dzikowski, Ewa Kołodziej, Michał Krawczyk, Małgorzata Pępek, Ryszard Wilczyński, Tomasz Szymański, Mateusz Bochenek, Piotr Borys, Adam Cyrański, Zofia Czernow, Konrad Frysztak, Artur Łącki and Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic coalition, on the responsibility of government administration for coordinating refugees from Ukraine at the level of voivodships. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As far as I know, the Minister will answer. This debate, which we have just finished, does not invalidate the questions that are and need to sound. I am sorry to say that Minister Wąsik does not like questions. I would very much like to see that no one shouts at Members here, because we do not ask each other for pleasure, we just ask, because people, citizens, come to us and ask us questions. For two weeks outside our borders, she has been fighting, burning and bleeding, independent Ukraine, and at our borders there are millions of tormented women and children fleeing from hell. We are with them and for them, we open our doors, our wallets, and above all our hearts. The Poles responded brilliantly. Prime Minister Morawiecki used the phrase: common movement several times on various occasions. Prime Minister, the common movement of thousands of Poles - consent, but the government cannot act according to this principle. You knew that there were very serious migratory crises, because you built your own electoral support to oppose European solidarity in the face of such a crisis. You knew already in November that Russia would attack Ukraine, but it is only today that we are investigating this law on aid for refugees. [[The voice from the room: Yes, you knew.]] You knew when the war started, and then you opened the borders instantly. And there were indeed first reception points, but you didn't offer much more. No one or nothing relieves power of responsibility, so we ask about this responsibility at the level of voivodships, because at the level of voivodships were all: local governments, NGOs (Dzwonek), volunteers, firefighters, entrepreneurs, hostels. The public passed the responsibilities test, and how did the regional crisis management centers and the voivodships behind them pass it? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u183	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u184	It can be concluded from the statements of government representatives that they were the ones who organized and financed humanitarian transports, that they were the ones who accepted fugitives under their roof, that they were the ones who handled lawyers, translators, tents, sandwiches, hot meals, animal transport and psychological assistance. No, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u185	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u186	And please, Minister, don't give such an answer that I'm not telling you the truth. Please tell me that you already know what it's been like and what it's like, and that from now on, as much as possible, you'll be helping a common movement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u187	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr. Chairman for an answer to the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is very broad and I would like to answer this question in very detail. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should begin. thanks to all those who today support Ukrainians in Poland, those who flee from bombs that fall on their country. I would like to thank all Poles who welcome refugees under their roof in big cities and small towns. I think that today there are no words that would express these thanks and that would express how much gratitude we all show as a political class to these people. Ladies and gentlemen! Cardinal Wyszyński said that Poland is one, and in this tone I would like to give this answer today. We in our history have never left anyone in need and also in these last 2 weeks as a nation we pass a great test of solidarity. All of us - volunteers, those who take people under the roof of our apartments - have shown what a wonderful community we are and how we can work together. From day one, we have been working together as a government with local governments and no words or single incidents on the scale of the country that happen, because there are always incidents in the war, and they will not change the fact that this cooperation exists. When I was in Cracow yesterday, I heard from the president that cooperation is even model. I meet with local government officials personally, we have been working with representatives of local government unions since day one. I will tell you more, Madam, I will quote you the words of President Kosiński from Ciechanów on 12 February, two weeks before the start of the war: the voivods started contacts with local authorities, we were asked to indicate a list of accommodations for refugees, the number of acceptable people. Are you saying we should start working today? We act permanently and act several weeks before the beginning of the armed conflict. We're dating. We're talking. As head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we personally met with NGO representatives. There are incidents, there are understatements, there are communication problems - there are, because there are always problems in these situations. The EU Commissioner herself, on behalf of the European Union. Mrs Johansson's migration said that within 12 days a wave of refugees came to Poland, such as in 2015 and 2016 in total, to the European Union as a whole. And then we talked about the migration crisis in Europe. And today, within 10 days without any problems at the border regarding humanitarian issues, we have already adopted more than 1 million refugees across the country. There are incidents and communication problems, because we have this situation, not another situation, we have a war beyond our eastern border. I would like to say that the whole world draws attention to the fact that we are able as a community. He also drew attention to the smooth and coordinated work of the government, the voivodship authorities, local government and border services in the field of refugee assistance, Mr Filippo Grandi, United Nations High Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken a lot of such measures. As Minister Maciej Wąsik said, at 3 p.m. 4 Russia's aggression on Ukraine began at 3 p.m. 6 All voivodships have been placed on standby, border points have been set at the border with Ukraine. Today there are 35 reception points on the national scale. You asked me how many points there were. They are created and this work is coordinated by voivodships in cooperation with the government, local government and local government organisations. Thank you very much to all volunteers. I was at the Central Station last night, and I looked into the situation. About an hour. At 8 a.m., the coordination of activities at the Central Station was taken over by the State Fire Department, as well as students, aspirants of the school in Warsaw, so that as many people as possible can this work of all organizations, institutions, volunteers, whom we thank, coordinate so that it is known that the officials of the provincial office are on one front, on the other front. We have more than 200 employees of the voivodship office in Warsaw who are doing their work today in the field. The whole administration is adapted to operate under the conditions that we have had for several days in Poland for more than 2 weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! Information centres operate in cooperation with various organisations run, coordinated by voivodships. We have dozens of these information points at the stations throughout Poland. We cooperate with the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, so that at the points that the local authorities indicate as appropriate for organizing collective accommodation for foreigners, supplementing beds, tents (the bell), that's all that is needed in terms of efficient cooperation. That's what we're trying to do. Ladies and gentlemen! We also organize free transport in all voivodships. We have a base of over 1,300 coaches for coach companies. Self-governments use it. We cooperate with the Polish City Union, which has been given a base for all these places so that we can better coordinate these activities so that we can cooperate. It's all happening. There are infolines. In addition to the helpline to the Office for Foreigners, there are local helplines in each office. Voivodeships meet with various representatives of local government, with the marshals of voivodships, presidents. Meetings of crisis management teams shall be held daily. I attended meetings of crisis management teams in Cracow, Katowice and Łódź yesterday and talked to the presidents of these cities. Of course, there are problems with communication, there are incidents that we try to resolve on an ongoing basis. I, with many of you, including Members of the opposition, am in touch and try to keep in touch with, help, solve these problems. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are also prepared for funding. Because you say that practically right now local governments have to finance a lot of things themselves. The bill will enter into force, everything will be refinanced - what we have agreed to with local governments. There are instructions from the voivodships, as well as appropriate agreements with local governments and all those agreements that have been concluded between the government and the local government will be respected - backwards, since 24 February. We will keep our word on this, those funds that are guaranteed by the law we have been talking about will be paid. When problems arose - on the first day of the first problem, the presidents of big cities asked, they said: we do not have a legal basis to act on many issues - immediately, within a few hours, the national management of the chambers of accounts issued such a legal interpretation as not to block, to help everyone if anyone needs this assistance, so that all local authorities can act too. So that this law legalizes a lot of actions that local governments have taken, NGOs. We will finance all of this within the framework of the possibilities offered by this law. This cooperation is and please, I encourage everyone to cooperate with the voivods. As I said, many actions are also taken by local governments, for which we thank, apart from the actions of the voivods. And we appreciate it, thank you, because this help is needed today. We also thank NGOs for this, too. In many places we work together and show that we can only deal with this problem if we are one team. And I guarantee you that the government administration, the voivodships, stand here at the level of the task and are at the disposal of everyone who wants to help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u189	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Marek Rząsa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For 14 days, local governments in Podkarpacie and in all Poland have been helping refugees from Ukraine with a superhuman effort. They receive them with great warmth, they accommodate, they give food, they give drink, they take care, they coordinate their trips to Poland. They are assisted in this humanitarian work by thousands of nameless volunteers, officers, donors, and people of good will. I see them working every day under very heavy weather and sanitation conditions. I can't find words today that could give back what I feel about them and what we all feel about them. Thank you. They also see how some appeals, requests, reasonable suggestions coming from all sides to the authorities come across a wall of indifference or bureaucracy of government institutions. I really was, and I want to be very abstinent in my opinions, comments, but I won't be silent when someone is lying the way you were yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk, and when he wasn't, he didn't see and he didn't touch this problem. Because the Minister was just at the border. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Forgive me, but the government of the United Right at this moment is not only the last, but also the weakest link in this humanitarian chain of Polish solidarity. And thank the local authorities, and don't argue, don't question their commitment. I have a very specific question, Minister: How does the government intend to help border governments in a very fast and efficient relocation of tens of thousands of refugees into Poland from towns such as Przemyśl, Medyka, Krościenko, Korczowa and Budomierz? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u191	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you once again to respond to Minister Bosternaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u192	In answer to this specific question, Mr President, as I said, from day one, we are trying to ensure that all these actions at the border go smoothly. That is why on the first day reception points were created, so many people were transported through these points to further parts of Poland, so there are additional warehouses of PKP, many different places. These are really cases coordinated by the Government Emergency Management Team. Every day we gather together a few times, listen to all ideas, including local governments, and we are here to implement them, because the government is here to help in these matters. So in those cities you've been talking about, action is being taken. To show the specifics of this action - then there are more problems, because when these people go from border towns to big cities, because they mostly want to go to big cities, they want to make sure that they get to a big city, these problems arise in these big cities. Therefore, e.g. Special trains from Podkarpacie will start today - I will tell you here, so ad hoc, live, what actions we have taken since this morning - Mazowieckie Koleje will transport these people to other cities in Mazowsze, not Warsaw, because there are already, as we know, a lot of people who are also waiting for transport to other cities in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! In the first days, there was a big problem that refugees did not want to go to smaller towns. They simply feared that when they wanted to return to Ukraine after the war, they would no longer have the opportunity to return from these smaller towns, as in the case of large towns. We had to convince them, there were many actions, many cooperation with the Ukrainian Union in Poland, which argued: trust the Polish government, these are good solutions, no one will take your child away from you. Because those were the questions, these are the problems we've faced, we're facing at the border. Today, many of these people don't choose places, but they go wherever they are. We also show pictures in reception places: See, here is a prepared place, the local government is waiting for you, there is a prepared coach, transport, there is the possibility of free access to the place. We've been coordinating these actions since the first hours of aggression. That's what we've been preparing for before. The fact that mistakes happen, the fact that they happen, they will happen with such a wave of refugees. I repeat, within 10 days we have received more than 1 million people, the same as in 2 years came to Europe between 2014 and 2015 when Chancellor Merkel spoke about the migration crisis across Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! The scale of this action requires the cooperation of all institutions to this called: government, self-government, as well as people of good will who act. I'm so glad we're proving that those words are cardinal. Wyszyński, that Poland is one, in recent days are shown even more strongly (The Bell) that this is all... We're taking the test. There are mistakes, we apologize for them, we remain at our disposal, and we thank all those who provide this assistance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u193	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mariusz Trepka, Tadeusz Chrzan, Robert Telus and Zbigniew Dolata from Law and Justice on the results of agri-food exports to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the first words I would like to thank all those who are just helping refugees from Ukraine, because we know what is on the eastern border already behind us, that just these refugees are coming to Poland more and more, we already have over 1300 people in Poland at the moment. Thank you very much from this place. My question concerns 2021, which was the year of the record in the export of agri-food products from Poland. Minister! The possibility of increasing exports of agri-food products allows for the development of surplus food produced in Poland. This is an important source of revenue for the Polish agri-food industry and indirectly affects the economy of the whole country. National agri-food businesses, even under the constraints associated with the pandemic of Coronavirus, are doing very well on the international market. Minister! Such a question: What is the difference between imports and exports last year on the agri-food market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u195	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer this question by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u196	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. This is very important to stress that 2021 was a record year for agri-food exports. Poland has actually exported these goods for EUR 37 billion, over EUR 37 billion. This is a record-breaking result, and we can really expect a better result, because these estimates that keep coming to us are increasing in optimism and perhaps we will cross this barrier of EUR 37 billion. But this is worth referring to by 2020, because it is an increase of EUR 3 billion. At that time we had over EUR 34 billion of this agri-food export, which is why we can see that Polish food enjoys great recognition, great popularity in the world. It is a good quality food exported, but it is also very important to stress that this food is largely exported in already processed form, because between 86% a 88% This food is processed. What is extremely important in this chain reinforcement from field to table: showing that processors who actually get Polish goods are able to change their structure so that Poland can earn even more through this export. As regards 2021, it is also extremely important that imports of agri-food products have increased by less than 10%. This is about EUR 24 billion of this import, and some might consider it a mistake, but it must be shown that the most important thing is what the Member asks what the High House is asking about the balance. Because the balance is positive, 12 700 million euro is really a record result, and this is also shown by statistics, because we are on the seventh place when it comes to exports of agri-food products at all, i.e. we have been promoted by three items, and we are also on the third place when it comes to countries that have led to a positive balance. So this is really a record score. We expected that 2022 in a difficult situation in the east, the war situation in the East, the war in Ukraine could bring even better results. It is difficult at the moment to assess how the market will behave, but you see these trends as well. Farmers often stress that the price of fertilisers, the price of fuel, is a big problem, but at the same time we see high price spikes in cereals, agri-food products and we see difficulties in farming in Ukraine. These agricultural products... In fact, 50% are imports of cereals, exports of cereals from Russia and Ukraine. These are huge world volumes, not just European volumes. Therefore, the market will be very difficult, also due to shortages related to products from Russia, Ukraine or Belarus. But it should be emphasized and reassured that on the one hand we have Ukrainian-Belarusco-Russian problems in terms of markets, and on the other hand we see that there will be a great demand for agri-food products from Poland. This was said yesterday by Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of Agriculture, who knows the situation well. I would like to stress that the words about the fact that the Prime Minister does not know the market are unfortunately unnecessary, because in this situation the High House should work in a great consensus. The Prime Minister spoke to the Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine. There start huge production problems, with the possibility of growing in the fields, so in fact the whole Europe will have to help Ukraine, wants to help Ukraine. For now, we have aid for the reception of refugees (the bell), but there will also be a moment for food aid. Therefore, as regards the prices analysed and the Polish farmers, I believe that these prices will increase for several reasons: the crisis situation in the East, but also speculation. These prices, according to any analysis, will actually increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: As regards this export situation, the 2021 study is a record year of over EUR 37 billion. Thank you, Minister. You'll have a chance to answer that question. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: On the other hand, the balance is EUR 12 700 million, which is also a record. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u198	Dear Minister, Of course, this year was a good year for Polish exports, especially when it comes to agricultural products. This 13 billion euro surplus is a really good result, but today we have a different situation. I'm talking about wartime and what's happening to the grain right now. That's the information -- I think it's a Russian fake news -- that we're gonna run out of grain. I would like the Minister to explain this situation so that farmers can hear it. I have that knowledge, but the point is for farmers to hear about the grain case. What will happen - this is very important because we have to look forward - after the harvest? 'Cause if Ukraine's gonna suck less ground right now, there might be a shortage of grain in Europe. What are the decisions here? Of course, Minister, we know that we've had some agreement on fertilisers since yesterday. Could the Minister mention - because farmers expect this information - did the European Union agree or disagree? What is (the bell) the situation with regard to the prices of fertilisers? Because fertilizer prices are still rising today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir. Once again, I ask Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u200	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This is a very important question asked precisely in terms of the situation of production in Poland, because farmers are still wondering what year it will be when it comes to prices and production costs. We can clearly see that these production costs are very high. As far as fertilisers are concerned, the situation is further hampered by fuel. But it should be emphasized that this difficult situation - it is worth it to sound out of this speaker - is not caused by the shortage of fuel in Poland. In Poland fuel is, is secured, while prices are rising due to transport problems throughout Europe. Poland has always been the leader of transport in the European Union. Today we see that in this difficult situation Poles are able to keep the supply chain, but at the same time we see the concern of citizens and unfortunately the chase of some organizations and institutions which showed problems with the availability of fuel in Poland. This fuel is and when the market is normalized, it will be satisfied - because we also see situations where citizens are afraid that there is no fuel - prices should also be normalized. Therefore, I assure you that as far as fuel is concerned, fuel is. However, throughout the European Union there are problems with suppliers, with internal transport, because many Ukrainian citizens were also involved in transport, while refugees go to Poland, those citizens who built European transport, went to war, went to fight for their homeland. The issue of cereal markets. Mr President, your marshal, High Izbo, as I said, according to preliminary analysis, there was a lot of indication that... We have shown numbers that indicate a reduction in exports of these goods due to difficulties in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. In a situation where exports are impossible, it is not said at all, after these analyses, that there will be a difficult situation in agriculture. These countries do not produce, the Ukrainian country does not produce. It's hard to say today that it's a plus, because it's a big minus, a big tragedy for Europe and the world. We have to help this country. But when it comes to paper and analyzes it, it is clear that if one country does not produce and we will have a problem feeding these citizens as Europe, then we will have to help. Surely the European Union must put in place certain mechanisms that will make Europeans pass large volumes of food to the Ukrainians (the bell) on the spot. So here, when it comes to prices, farmers don't have to worry. On the other hand, we need to worry about ensuring that there is food, also Ukraine, so that I call on the European Commission to create such mechanisms so that we can successfully transport this food there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u201	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by the Members: Dariusz Rosati, Gabriela Lenartowicz, Krystyna Skowrońska, Urszula Zielińska, Aleksandra Gajewska, Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Klaudia Jachira, Magdalena Łośko, Aleksander Mishalski, Agnieszka Pomaska and Bogusław Sonik from the Civic Coalition on the energy security of Poles against the prospect of sanctions imposed on Russia and the government's action plan to prevent rising energy prices. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We know that with the Russian aggression against Ukraine, it becomes a particular challenge to provide Polish families with security, including energy and economic security. It is important to be fully aware that Polish houses, but also objects of public interest, are heated with Russian coal, this Russian coal, which is the source of smog and because of which about 50,000 die. Poles a year. Sales of this coal to Poland finance, among others. arms purchases against our neighbors, weapons purchases made by Putin. Also funds from purchases of other energy products, e.g. Forest biomass, i.e. energy wood 80% bought from the Lukashenka regime, is used for aggression against our neighbours. In view of the fact that it is necessary to become independent of the supply of these energy carriers from the Russian regime, but also from the Belarusian regime, with the economic shield of Polish families, I ask about the provision of energy and economic security by the government to Polish families. This most secure and independent, sovereign energy source, as everyone knows, is renewable energy sources. The European Union also wants to accelerate energy transition in this direction in the face of the war in Ukraine. I therefore ask: What does the government intend in terms of energy transformation towards RES and speeding up it, and in particular unlocking the development of Prosumer installations and financing from the Union's thermal modernisation of buildings? It is the deep thermomodernisation and photovoltaic installations associated with heat pumps that can contribute most effectively and quickly to the abandonment of Russian coal imports, and supported by public funds can reduce energy poverty. When will the government refrain from importing forest biomass from the Lukashenka regime, the accomplices of the invasion in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Member, please finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u204	And one more sentence, Marshal. Biomass in the form of this energy wood burned in Polish power plants is intended to meet the requirements of RES in the production of electricity...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u206	...then the cheapest source of renewable energy is land-based wind energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u207	Thank you very much. Now, Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u208	I ask the government: When will it unlock the land-based wind energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u209	Thank you very much. Please do not exceed the time, Madam President, because I do not want to interrupt your speech. I would like to ask the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Piotr Dziadzia, authorised by the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To answer questions about energy security, I will say this: we are prepared for bad scenarios both in terms of lack of supply of coal, natural gas and Russian fuels. We're prepared for this. As far as questions on biomass are concerned, we are prepared to replace it with our biomass in a situation of sanctions against Belarus. The State Forests have already taken action in this area, they are analysing it and we are ready to replace this quantity, i.e. approx. 1 million t, from what I remember, is to deliver it from our Polish market. We're ready for this. As far as investments in RES are concerned, we implement them and support all those related to the development of RES, of course where possible. With regard to the programmes implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the framework of joint activities with the Minister for Climate and Environment, we are implementing thermomodernisation programmes which you mentioned were not there. There are programs. We are implementing programmes to finance projects related to the development of photovoltaics. My current 4.0 will be coming soon, which is another edition of... Clean air - we are realizing. I will say even more: we are carrying out projects related to the development of geothermal energy, we are investing very strongly in this area of energy and district heating related to support for geothermal-based heating, low-temperature, medium-temperature geothermal and possibly high-temperature heating. All these elements are being implemented and I do not really see here the grounds for the allegations towards the government that this area of renewable energy is undeveloped. It is very intensively developed. Of course, today the European Commission - it is also about other institutions, such as: The international energy agency - in its 10-point programme it speaks and recommends, among other things, to move away from Russian energy sources, mainly gas, recommends the development of renewable energy sources. We are very well involved in this program and will implement it. [[What about wind energy?]] To be honest, right now this project is in the Ministry of Development and I don't know where it's at. Nevertheless, this must be a project that is socially agreed. He must be balanced and social and social. We all want land energy, but it has to be implemented under conditions where local governments, the community, agree to such investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u211	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Dariusz Rosati. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u212	Thank you very much, Marshal. Fuel prices are going crazy. Electricity and gas bills are paid by 30-50% higher. And it's gonna get worse. It is not possible to imagine that fuel trade with the Russian Federation has taken place as it has so far. The European Union imports gas, coal and oil from the Russian Federation, paying almost $1 billion a day. If we are really serious about limiting the Russian Federation's ability to wage a devastating war in Ukraine, then we should simply stop this stream of money. But what does that mean for us? This means for us a radical reduction in gas supply from existing oil sources and supplies. I have a question for the government if the government is prepared for this. Because as we watched the government's energy policy, it's practically one big band of omissions and mistakes. We have not built renewable energy sources, we have not led on a large scale to reverse gas supply (Bell), coal and oil. And right now we are in a situation where the risk of shock, the energy shock for Poland is huge. I would like to ask how the government is prepared for this. Now it's not enough for us, ladies and gentlemen, white and red stamps in flaps and clichés full of divine references, but we just have to show some leadership.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u214	Tell us here and all Poles what you intend to do to ensure the energy security of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u215	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Piotr Dziada to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u216	I'll give you a brief answer. I will repeat what has already been said at the outset. The Republic of Poland is prepared for a crisis related to the possible lack or interruption of Russian oil, Russian gas or Russian coal supplies. We're ready for these cases right now. I'm calming the Member down. In an appeal, the Member asked to reassure the Poles. I'm calming down. We're ready for this. [[How about an opinion on that?]] Yes. Now maybe I'll get to the facts. As regards the demand for natural gas from other alternative sources that we are currently preparing, as well as from investments that are being implemented and will be completed, you know very well that on 1 January 2023 we are launching Baltic Pipe. Baltic Pipe capacity is at 10 billion m [[Seven and a half.]] Well, 7.5... But we're able to deliver from these directions, cover the demand. We also have our own domestic production of 3.8-3.9 billion m As far as coal is concerned, we don't export coal for heating, energy... [[We're importing.]] We don't import, I'm sorry, we don't import. The imports of coal, which is in our country, are run by private companies, which we are unable to stop. Nevertheless, we are preparing very seriously for the complete replacement of coal, which serves (the bell) to the citizens, as you pointed out, for sunbathing or for heating houses. We'll replace the coal. We're in a preparatory phase. [[Oil.]] As far as oil is concerned, the chlorine crisis has shown that we are able to secure other sources of oil supply to our refineries. As far as the terminal is concerned, we are able to accept almost 36 million tons of oil, i.e. much more than we're using Russian oil right now from the Friendship pipeline. We're prepared for this, our refineries are prepared to use other kinds of oil from other directions. We've done this kind of exercise, so we're ready to do it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u217	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Jan Łopata and Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will ask about the aid addressed to Ukrainian citizens. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Paweł Chezernaker, will answer. The minister's not here yet. We therefore condemn the Minister's behaviour and move on to the question. Please, Mr Jan Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u218	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We are following the point of the Sejm's meeting: Questions on current issues. It cannot be surprising, therefore, that most of the Members who speak are asking the most important, the most relevant and the most up-to-date questions. Of course, it is about war in Ukraine and its consequences for the world, for Poland. We're asking that, too, and we've asked a whole bunch of questions in writing. We ask the Minister, who has received these questions, to answer them, whether or not he has already been addressed. Because maybe it's a way to break a certain deficit that we notice. It is a lack of solid, confirmed information and a related lack of coordination. It's a basic problem that volunteers and self-governments are talking about: lack of coordination. In addition, I would very much ask - I do not know if the Minister can hear me or not - for more comprehensive answers to the questions that come to us. This is about helping Polish families to cover costs, these costs of direct living of apartments, houses, rented or devoted to refugees from Ukraine. We're not talking about any profits, we're talking about big income, we're talking about a refund. This is a significant burden, but also a certain organisational deficit, because there are many more families that could accept refugees. The possibility of renting inhibits this high cost. And the second point, which is also very important. Many questions repeat the possibility of exchanging hryvnia. It's not a simple operation, we're aware of that. But I want to ask you where the solutions are going. Refugees are often out of options. Maybe some advances, maybe some other suggestions? I would like the government to signal to the Minister on this issue as well, in which direction the work is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u219	Thank you very much. I understand that the second Member will ask an additional question, right? Is that how you want to do it? [[Yes.]] 'Cause you're running out of time right now. [[It doesn't pass us. The minister's passing.]] The Minister is passing by like all of us. Next question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u220	Mr. Marshal, will he have one? Who's going to answer that question? I think someone should hear that question and respond to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u221	Mr President, we have many ministers here. I think the government is one and I'm sure each one of them is perfectly prepared. There is also the Minister of Climate, and Education, and Finance, and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u222	We'll talk about the climate some other time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u223	We can do it. They're capable people. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! It's about the help. We hear a lot about this help here. The government's bragging, and rightly, as it helps, it's just that we have to start by saying that if it weren't for local communities, if it wasn't for volunteers who'd been there since day one... I was there the first day, and I knew what happened there. That's where the kids from school were sent to help. Officials are of course, but there are few of them, because even 200 officials from the voivodship office, if we scatter them to the whole voivodship, to every town, it is very few. This spontaneity is enormous right now, enormous. And the point is not to slow it down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, give me a little more time. A number of interventions are that no action is being taken or actions are being taken that are even blocking. In Chotyniec, in the town of Piaski, it is the municipality of Radymno in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, women organized themselves, receiving mothers with children. 80 women are well received every day, help is provided. The whole village is organized. Later they are distributed in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u226	And right now, they're under orders to put an end to it. Similarly in the village of Sands. They call me every day: Mr, ask. And I'm asking the government today...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u227	Mr President, you will ask in an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u228	...what is the basis for slowing down this social initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u229	Thank you very much, sir. [[It was extra.]] That was extra, wasn't it? That's good news for you: you're going to ask it again. If you have not been able to ask all the questions, you will be able to ask an additional question just after Minister Stanisław Sweed, whom I kindly ask. The formula is that the Minister will answer now. You will have an additional question and the Minister will answer again. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is also Minister Patkowski, who will answer the question about funds, hryvnia. I will answer questions concerning our ministry, but also those questions which you have asked regarding the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Our actions need to be divided into two parts, i.e. those actions that we are taking at the moment, and those actions that will later result from the particularity that we are working on today. Because these are very important solutions that will make it easier for us to provide assistance, even institutional ones. In the first period, the most important objective was, of course, to ensure safety and that when crossing the border, all procedures could be asked to make sure that the people who enter us... We know that they were mostly mothers with children, elderly people. It's about making this process as quick as possible. The war broke out at hours. Four o'clock in the morning. About an hour. 10 a.m. reception points in Lublin Voivodship and Podkarpackie Voivodship were already started. These reception points had one main goal: to be able to distribute people who entered the country through these reception points. Of course, in this first part it was very strong - and for this we are all grateful - spontaneous action of our compatriots, i.e. welcoming people, welcoming people into their homes. That's what helped us most in this first period. But now we have to look at the second wave, which is the period that will happen now. These people are at home, these people are well-developed. The first important element was the operation of voivodships, who together with local governments, with non-governmental organisations provided the first accommodation and catering. This is what the crisis funds have been allocated to, but it is also about the measures that we will now adopt in the law, in this speciality which will fund the voivodship offices, the resources allocated to those actions that have been taken. It is about signed contracts, various prices were different: from 100 PLN to 120 PLN for meals, for accommodation. Today, we also set the funding for people who individually welcome people into the home. We have determined the amount of this amount - 40 PLN. So a resident who applies to a city centre or a community welfare centre will be able to gain 40 PLN per person. If this is a family of four - 160 PLN. In a month it's already multiplied times 30 days, which is this period. In the specialty we have the first period, up to 2 months of this support. Why such a solution? First of all, because we are also aware that in many cases people have responded spontaneously and today we need to help them, because not everyone can afford to have the resources even for food, but also in the first place very much, maximum - this is about the area of our ministry, and this is in the specialty - we want to open the labour market. This market is changing because Moms and the elderly are coming. The point is, there's an offer for women. In this respect, there is constant contact with entrepreneurs. Yesterday there was a meeting with the Entrepreneur's Council, with the Labour Market Council to make it as simple as possible. This is the solution that we have introduced, i.e. there will be virtually no procedure, except for the notification by the entrepreneurs of the county labour offices that the person has been employed. The point is that we should be clear and clear about where such actions take place. But at this time we also want to deal with the issue of child care in our ministry, i.e. cases where there is a group of children from Ukraine and there is a person from Ukraine who will be able to take care of it. The government will be able to create a children's club for these kids. Daycare will already be guaranteed. The third action, which is and will be, will also be to amend the Social Assistance Act. We want to start by giving 300 zlotys for emergency assistance to every citizen who enters, that is to say, emergency needs. Someone needs a phone card or something. 300 PLN will be paid by city social services centers, this is a very important issue for local governments. We also spend money on this, because it will be a task commissioned for the local government. The funds from the fund that we will set up under the special scheme will be transferred. So there's a lot of help. At this moment we are going to the second wave of help for those people (the bell) who are arriving, but also those who are already staying with us. I think Minister Patkowski will answer this second part. Maybe you'll ask me that again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u231	Thank you very much. There was a bit of a mix-up. I have a question for Mr Kasprzak. Plus, do you want to take the floor? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. You just have to turn on...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u232	I have another question, Minister. Minister, that'll be a question for you. I would ask - this is my personal request - to check and at the moment take action on what is happening in Chotyńc, Radymno commune, and Sands. Why can't these organizations, these women... I understand what you've been explaining, but this is the first stage of admission from the border and the reception stage, and taking care of it, and then they're already on the move and they're being deployed. Because women are distraught, and I wouldn't want it to have a negative impact on that energy, on the spontaneity that has actually been liberated in these border towns. The point is for you to take action to check and assist these organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u233	Thank you very much. Minister Paweł Chezernaker. You're welcome. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we will respond to those words in a moment. I will examine exactly the two information that you have told me about here. I would like to point out that yesterday afternoon, late in the evening, I met with the mayors, the uncles, the presidents of the border towns, who represented essentially the border government. There was President Rzeszow, former Mayor of Hrubieszow, former representatives from Chełm and other towns. The idea is to still equip these border places, towns and local governments with the things they need. Did you need tents? They went camping last night. Do you need beds? They're gonna make it to bed tonight. If there are such situations, please, of course, report them directly to the Voivodships, to the Voivodship of Częstkie in the case of the Lublin Voivodship. In the case of the Podkarpackie voivodship, ladies and gentlemen, I can also say that from now on, your voivode Leniart has a second deputy, so as to be able to better coordinate cooperation with local governments. Your voivode Leniart is on the front line, she is very often on the border, she also welcomes foreign guests who come to see how reception points work at the border. Very often he needs such support when it comes to cooperation with local governments, so today the Prime Minister has appointed a second Deputy Voivode of Podkarpackie to further improve this cooperation with local authorities. I hope it gets better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u235	Thank you very much. [[Minister, yesterday I had a signal: tents in the Budmeter. Tents in the Budmeter.]] Mr, Mr, I have a... [[Game in the O.R.]] Hello! Ladies and gentlemen! I've got this... But wait, guys, important things are happening. Here's the proposal, Mr. President: there's a minister, come to him, sit back, talk to him. Make things clear. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera and Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski from the club... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Wait a minute, Minister Patkowski was supposed to tell me about the hryvnia.]] Sir, I have a favor to ask you: there's a time limit to help you, you're the minister. I'd like you to come in here and talk to me for a minute. Every question has a certain time and we have to implement the program, right? Mr Zdzisław Sipiera and Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice wanted to ask a question about the opening on 1 March of the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka and the planned further activities of the Ministry conducted to nurture Polish independence traditions, strengthen the transmission of Polish historical policy abroad and the development of our national community. This question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will answer, Minister Jarosław Sellin. I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera for the question. I am pleased that the Member is coming to the Minister and that the confusion is contained. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u236	Minister! High Izbo! A very important aspect of Polish historical policy is connected with the restoration of memory of those who fought for Poland, gave their lives and saved the most important things. Personally, I had the privilege of being a Mazowieckie voivode at the moment when the foundation stone was laid. And the question to the minister about what's already waking up the work is about opening up, about the fact that this museum in Ostrołęka will take off. I just wanted to ask you a few questions. First of all, what are the plans for further activity related to the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka? What are the ideas for how to show it, how to expand it and how to go to young people, schools, communities that are self-government and which also affect the building element of historical memory? This also applies to the wider element: How to present it abroad? Because unfortunately this is the reality, that about many aspects for us already so obvious things, which are increasingly common in Poland, the West or the world at all, does not know. And that is why I would ask the Minister for a few sentences about these very intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u237	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister... Or else? [[Right to the question.]] Second question right away. You're welcome. So there won't be any more questions? [[No, no.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u238	I mean, I guess this is my minute, right? Second question?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u239	That's what you decided. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Referring to the statements made by my honourable previous speaker, I would also like to ask the Minister about further plans for this major investment effort which the Ministry of Culture has undertaken. In the last 5 years (The Bell) The Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka was opened by a joint effort of government and local government, but it was the decision of the government to finance this investment. Similarly it happened near Ostrołęka, in Ostrów Mazowiecka, where the local government and local government build together the Pilecki Family House Museum. Notabene what is your opinion on this subject, that on the basis of the offer of these two museums and the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners the Polish People's Republic could be created educational projects for young people. I wanted to ask you about this investment effort when it comes to building new cultural units that the Ministry of Culture took - he is very large. What are the further plans for investing in new museums? It must be said that this place in Ostrołęka or Ostrów is sanctified by memory, suffering or history, because it is directly related to historical events, but it was created by the decision of a specific investment, the decision of the Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u241	Thank you very much, gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister Jarosław Sellin. Minister, you only have one answer because the questions have been accumulated. But you can talk longer. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Do I have a cumulative time too?]] No, just say it so it's okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u242	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, on 1 March, on the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed, established by the Polish Sejm several years ago, we had a wonderful event, namely the opening of the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka. This is the first completed museum dedicated to this subject. The war in Ukraine and the media area, of course, dominated the topic of Ukrainian drama, so it didn't get through so much. But for us this is actually a very important event, because we have realized another plan to build historical museums, which are dedicated to Polish historical politics. Here I have this brochure we made at the Ministry: a network of modern museums on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. This is the coverage in the country for all the museum initiatives we are implementing today. And this is one of those projects. The museum is located on the premises of the former Ostroleka detention centre. Six years ago, we decided to co-host this museum because it was originally founded by the local authorities. We have allocated PLN 35 million for the construction of this museum itself, and then additionally more than PLN 14 million for the creation of a permanent exhibition. Since last year, this museum is entirely under the aegis of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. This was also the decision of the local government to run the museum in its entirety by the Minister of Culture. Like any modern museum, and this is a modern museum... Museums today are not just a permanent exhibition, please put on slippers and don't touch the exhibits. It used to be, today is exactly the opposite, you can touch the exhibits and you can use various kinds of multimedia. As in any modern museum, including the museum, there are temporary exhibitions, seminars, conferences, book publications, magazines, screenings of films, because there is also a multimedia room there, there is an opportunity to organize concerts, there is an opportunity to organize international debates. That's how this museum's gonna work. I believe that the knowledge of this magnificent epic of the underworld soldiers who, after 1944, did not lay down their weapons and fought until 1963, will be disseminated by this museum. Of course, here, in Warsaw, the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic is also created - a slightly wider range, a story until 1990 - in the area of the former prison in Rakowiecka. Now this museum is organized by the Institute of National Remembrance, previously by the Minister of Justice. This is gonna be the second facility. I do not know when it will be open, because we are not the organizer - ultimately open - but it will be the second institution which will also disseminate this knowledge. As Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski rightly pointed out, who had been involved in the initiative to build a museum in Ostrołęka from the very beginning with the then president of the city Janusz Kotowski, who is now the director of this museum, the museum is working with Ostrowia Mazowiecka, where - I would like to inform - in August this year we will open a museum of the Pilecki family, such an interesting route. You can say, from Rakowiecka in Warsaw, through Ostrołęka, to Ostrów Mazowiecka, and you can even extend this route to Białystok, open in September last year - 17 September, on a symbolic day - the Museum of the Remembrance of Sibir, because such was the fate of the soldiers cursed to the East, to the delivery. The Sibir Memorial Museum, of course, also has a wider dimension. These historical museums have been realized a lot in recent years. We also announce that they will open another one. For example, on 25 April we will open the Museum of Remembrance of the People of the Oświęcim Land about the fight of the inhabitants of the Oświęcim Land during World War II. We will also open a new Sand Museum in Wejherów in December this year telling about the Martyrology of the Polish leadership elite at the turn of 1939 and 1940. I also think that in September this year we will open, a very moving thing, a new cemetery on Westerplatte after discovering the remains of these nine soldiers lying on Westerplatte who were wildly buried by the Germans. They will rest with dignity next to their commander at Westerplatte Cemetery. So that such announcements of new museums, even for this year, we have plenty. The Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek will also open a new exhibition. We have a lot of them, and we believe that this is the proper implementation of memory policy, historical policy through its institutionalisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Joanna Borowiak and Urszula Ruseck of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the increase in pensions and the amount of pension benefits granted by the PiS government in 2016-2022 compared to the 2008-2015 period. This question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, answers. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to ask her questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Senior policy is an important area of social and family policy for the rule of law and justice. For Polish seniors it is obvious today that they can use programs that are addressed to them. We give a lot of attention to seniors. We've restored the early retirement age extended by the Platform and the PSL. The 13th pension is a statutory guarantee. The 14th pension will again be granted to seniors this year as well. Retirement without tax is another programme that has been implementing the Law and Justice Government since January this year. Only last year the seniors received support of PLN 36 billion. That's ten times more than he did in 2015 for seniors the Platform and PSL government. The 13th and 14th pensions total PLN 46 billion. To this end, support under the Senior+ Programme. Today we have over 1,000. Senior homes and clubs and 25,000. places in these clubs and houses. Responding to the needs and expectations of Polish senior citizens, the government once again decided to raise pensions, also increased the rate of valorization to a record level of 7%. As a result, the lowest pension will be over PLN 1338 gross. In addition, the 14th pension will be paid again in the second half of the year. We do all this so that the conditions of life of Polish seniors will improve in real terms. We would like to ask the Minister: How much has pensions increased since 2015 to date? How much money has been earmarked for this purpose? And how were the amounts of financial benefits paid to seniors in 2008-2015 under the Civic Platform and PSL? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u245	Thank you very much. I cordially invite the Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Maybe I will start with what you said, Madam President, on the issue of our government's policy on seniors. It is, of course, family policy that is a very important component and I think that from the very beginning of our actions we have made such decisions to maximum support seniors - from this simplest action, i.e. from raising the minimum, lowest pension. We know that she was 880 PLN in 2015, now we have 1338 PLN, that is, the lowest pension increase by more than 52%. This shows what was the process of raising the lowest pension. What is important is that in all these years, the lowest benefit has increased accordingly. The point was not to bring about a situation like that of the predecessors, in which there was a few gold valorization. Because there have been situations like this. That is why we have put in place a mechanism for a pension of interest. Between 2019 and 2020, the lowest amount of valorisation was 70 PLN, but in 2020 we raised the minimum pension by 100 PLN. It showed that we wanted to raise the lowest pensions and today the lowest pension is higher. There's an extra benefit for that. There is a 13th pension because it is the lowest pension, there is a 14th pension that was paid last year, and the 14th pension is announced this year. We have raised the lowest pension and, of course, there is a pension without tax up to 2.5 thousand. PLN in Polish Lada. We are raising the real value of the lowest benefits so that the social group that has the most difficulty can live with dignity. With regard to the figures that you have been asking, between 2016 and 2022, i.e. within 7 years of the rule of law and justice, we have allocated 56 billion PLN to seniors compared to 46 billion PLN spent under the rule of predecessors over 8 years. If we looked at all the resources we have spent during this period of rule of law and justice, i.e. 13 pensions, 14 pensions, valorisation from 2016 to 2022, we would see that this is the sum of PLN 115 billion. These are the powerful resources that have come to our pensioners. This is not yet included in the 14th pension, because of course it will be accepted this year. This is, I think, an important element of support, because in the 500+ program we have over PLN 180 billion. In total, there really is a lot of money. Now it is a very important element of this year's valorization. This year's valorisation according to what is accepted is inflation plus wage growth. He's been at 20% for many, many years. We, due to the situation in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter, also inflation, raised the wage rate to 63%. This is an indicator that has not yet been raised in our country. It's about higher inflation. If we were to count inflation according to assumptions, i.e. with a 20% wage growth rate, inflation rate - 5.1, that would be a 5.7% benefit. That's 105.7%. We've accepted a 7% valorization. by increasing the wage growth rate, i.e. the valorisation is 107%. Which also led us to devote significantly higher resources to the valorisation of pensions this year. This is obviously happening because March is the month when all benefits are paid. This year we spend PLN 18 400 million in the budget for valorization. Last year we predicted that there would be PLN 11 600 million, which is a large increase. As I said, the main reason was that the increase in costs was also higher. We have therefore decided to increase the wage growth rate and this amount is higher. Of course, we also have higher lowest pensions. It's gonna bounce back from April 1 when we pay our 13th pension. Then it will be the amount of PLN 1334. I think this is the most important information: support for (the bell) seniors has increased in recent years and there is nothing to compare it with the previous years, because this is a dozen-fold increase when it comes to spending on senior policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u247	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice creates many programmes and projects dedicated to senior citizens. It is difficult to mention all these short statements, but I would focus on what is important for seniors, namely stability and continuation. Will the Minister assure our seniors that the government will continue this in the coming years, with particular emphasis on the Senior+ Programme? These are programs that support senior activity to a large extent. They're mostly dedicated to this social group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I'm gonna go back to the first part of the information, because it's also about valorization. I didn't have time to tell you about it in the first part. This is also a question of additional benefit, which we have allocated for people with disabilities, i.e. the amount of 500 PLN for people with disabilities. After the amendment of the Act, which we have implemented, it is subject to valorization and at the moment the amount of supplementary benefit for persons unable to self-existence has increased from PLN 1772 to PLN 1896, i.e. almost to PLN 1900 this amount is increased. The same mechanism was introduced in compensation for opposition activists and those who were repressed - from PLN 2500 to PLN 2676. Thus, in other activities, valorisation has also resulted in the introduction of a permanent valorisation mechanism. As regards the programmes that we are pursuing, I will mention the programme that has been in operation for many years, that is, the programme aimed at local governments, helping to create and operate senior clubs and daily homes. The programme is practically settled, and in the coming days it will be published. This year we had 60 million PLN allocated for this purpose, in the perspective of 5 years it is 300 million PLN. There have been more reports than we have the resources, so I think we will fully secure the proposals that came out of the local government. The second very important programme is the Active + ¿ programme, which is a continuation of the ASOS programme, aimed at NGOs on the so-called "active + ¿' programme. Soft designs. We have received over 1600 proposals from NGOs, and these proposals are being assessed. We have 40 million PLN for this program, in 5 years 200 million PLN. So only for these two actions is the amount of PLN 500 million. I would like to mention one more programme, because it is also an important element of support for seniors, i.e. the 75+¿ care programme, i.e. a programme aimed at supporting local governments in municipalities up to 60,000. in the care of single persons at home, also for the support of families who care for such persons. This is support for local authorities in providing care, funding benefits. Last year it was the amount of PLN 28 million, this year we estimate that there will be about PLN 10 million more, i.e. at the level of PLN 38 million. We also have the resources from the reserve at our ministry, which we are spending on this program. Last year more than 600 municipalities took part in this programme, and this year we hope that there will be more of them - and there are more resources for this. So only in these three programmes (the Bell) which, on the one hand, help in the active activities of the elderly and, on the other, improve the possibility of taking care of the elderly, is what I have presented to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u251	Thank you very much. We're gonna ask the minister to stay, 'cause there's gonna be another question for you in a minute. And here's the question. Barbara Bartus and Waldemar Andzel will ask a question about the situation on the Polish labour market and preparations, in the face of the war in Ukraine, for the employment of refugees and the program together we can more - the first edition of the activation programme for foreigners for the years 2022-2023. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u252	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Every economic crisis was linked to very high unemployment. Such unemployment in Poland we all remember from the 1990s. - all those who are at least my age. We remember how hard it was to find a job, but also how many people lost their jobs - it was a big nightmare. That's how I remember those days. Another wave of unemployment growth was after the 2008 crisis, and also in Poland this unemployment was growing. And he came to us, to Poland, to the world another crisis - pandemic and post-pandemic crisis. We were all afraid that unemployment could rise rapidly, and this is the biggest threat for all of us, for Poland, for Poles, for our entire economy, but also for all families. As it turns out, the government has taken very effective action because the unemployment rates that have recently been published are at the lowest level, probably not previously recorded. But another bad situation has come - we have a war beyond the eastern border. That is why I would like to combine this question, about a war that is, but also about needs, because today is not the case that we are at risk of unemployment, but we are at risk of lack of workers. This lack of employees on the Polish market has already been, this has been discussed a lot, in January was the amended act on foreigners, but today the Polish government adopts the program together we can more ¿, an activation program for foreigners for the years 2022-2023. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I ask for full information about the state of unemployment in Poland, but also about what the Polish government is doing to help those who come to us from Ukraine. Will they find jobs on the Polish market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u253	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Today, the platform is just yours. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Member of the Commission, Madam President. As far as the situation on the labour market is concerned, it can be said in short: it is good and in some voivodships very good. Because if we look at the scale of the country, we have an unemployment rate of 5.5% right now. On the scale of voivodships: Wielkopolskie - less than 3%, warmińsko-mazurskie - approx. 9% So there is no voivodship in our country where unemployment would be two-digit. And, of course, here it is still worth raising the issue of the unemployment scale according to Eurostat. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union, at 2.8%. Lower unemployment is only Czech Republic, which means we are second in Europe when it comes to countries with the lowest unemployment rate. These data are happy, but of course these data didn't come from anything. In order to bring about this situation, during the fight against the pandemic, the most important task was to protect jobs. Hence both the crisis shields and the funds from the Polish Development Fund or the funds from the labour offices, the Labour Fund. In total, over 35 billion PLN has been allocated over this period to support entrepreneurs, support workers. If we added the funds that were part of the previous funds, it would appear that we have allocated over PLN 200 billion to support entrepreneurs. We estimate that about 8 million jobs have been protected during this period. I think that's good information. But we know that today's situation is completely different. Before the war in Ukraine many people from Ukraine worked on our labour market. Those were the people who came to the so-called. a short path - to a declaration of entrusting work. We also changed the rules for the first period. It was six months, and now we've extended it to 24 months. But it was above all, 70%, men. The war has made this market very different, and at the moment mostly women, children, come to us. Men are leaving to defend their homeland. That's why our market has to change, too. This is why we have introduced changes in the specialty to make it even easier for Ukrainian citizens to take up work. We have, as I say, mostly women here who can find a place to work. Hence our meetings with both the Council of Entrepreneurs and employers, such meetings take place cyclically. Last time I saw him was last night. The job offers for Ukrainian citizens are also aimed at women. We also have a hotline running at the level of our ministry. There is a green line, there is a portal for job offers in Polish and Ukrainian to facilitate communication. We estimate that there's about 75,000 a day. offers on our portals that you can use. It helps these people get a job, too. As I said, last year almost 2 million people supported us when it comes to people from third countries, most of whom were Ukrainian citizens. Today, we will fill this gap in the labour market with those who enter us and make it easier for them to work. As far as facilitation is concerned, today in the specialty there will be a simple solution: if someone enters our country, he is legally already on the Polish labour market, which means he can take up work. You won't need a work permit, you won't need a statement, your employer will just have to notify the county employment office through our job portal that you hired someone like that. It must do so - after taking into account yesterday's changes to the bill - within 14 days. So within 14 days, the employer will have to notify the county labour office, and will also have to include information about the salary and type of employment contract. It's dictated that we have control - but also that she has a job inspection - in the event of a situation... There are dishonest employers who (the bell) can take advantage of this situation, hence the changes that we are making. But it's a simple IT operation. The notification is on the site, there will be a special request. And it's just the employer who's gonna have to do it, that's all. So that the wide opening of the market so that we can help and so that these people can find employment in our labour market too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u255	Thank you very much. The additional question will be shared by Members. First, Mrs Barbara Bartus. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u256	Yeah, we got a minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the one hand, thank you very much for this comprehensive response. On the other hand, these instruments are new, and we are just proceeding over the bill. For this bill - I think on behalf of all Poles who also want to help refugees - we thank you. Does the Ministry have any discernment today... Our labour market, through the fact that many Ukrainians went to fight for the freedom of their homeland, lost. Men, strong men - the construction market, investments, etc. Mostly women come. Do we have any idea what our labour market is going to look like in a month, two months, three? Thank you, my friend.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel. 18 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u258	Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about what amenities are planned for employers who employ refugees above what you have mentioned. The Polish Government is really doing a lot in this respect, so that great thanks for helping the Ukrainians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u259	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. You were just here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u260	Thank you very much. I can also answer that regarding the additional measures that we have taken, which are already under way. We also want to help Ukrainian citizens, but not only, foreigners through programs that we have launched. The last programme that we have launched on the activation of foreigners is the programme together we can do more. This is a programme aimed at both labour market institutions and local governments, NGOs. He has two goals, two priorities. The first is labour market integration, the second is social integration. They can take place as part of this, among others. training, learning Polish language, i.e. preparing people on the labour market. Like I said in the first part, if women come to us, maybe they need to be retrained, maybe just learning the language, things that we can use in this programme. For this program we have PLN 40 million. At the moment, applications may be submitted by 21 March to benefit from this programme. I think that this programme is also the answer to what we are doing. At the moment there is also a banner on our website regarding this program. Just click to see the whole path, how to apply. [[And I think it's Ukrainian, too, right?]] In Ukrainian, of course. There are also infolines in Polish and Ukrainian languages and there is, of course, an opportunity to respond in Ukrainian. As a result of the second action we have taken, the integration centres of foreigners have been launched within the framework of the FAMI Asylum and Migration Fund. We have the amount of PLN 8 million for their implementation. These tasks are carried out by two centres: the first is a regional social assistance centre in Wielkopolska, Poznań, and the second is the Provincial Labour Office in Opole. These are the resources that we receive from European funds. There is a large voivodship and a small voivodship, that was also the goal. And right now we are planning that there will be eight such centers, six or seven centers in Wielkopolska and one in Opole Voivodeship. And here the actions will be similar, e.g. as I have already said, learning Polish language, job law advice or other services that can be offered to citizens from Ukraine. Of course, as I said, this programme is aimed not only at Ukrainian citizens, but also at refugees from Belarus or, as is the case on our territory, at refugees from Afghanistan. These people can benefit from both the programme Together we can more and from the center of integration of foreigners (the bell). Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Paul from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask about the organisation of school education for children and young people from Ukraine. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Minister Dariusz Piontkowski. Here you go, Mr Andrzej Gawron. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At first, I would like to thank all those who are committed to helping refugees from Ukraine. Whether it's state institutions or government officials or NGOs, everyone deserves a heartfelt thank-you. And I'm a little surprised to hear that somebody's helping more and somebody's helping less. But I'll get back to the question. War is barbaric. We see him touching the children, the weakest ones. Those crowds of children who cross our border must be properly taken care of. I have questions: Does the Ministry already have specific data, how many children have reached Poland, at what age are they? Is this distribution so even, or is this wave of immigration, of refugees more concentrated in urban centres, or will it be more even?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u263	There you go, Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u264	Minister! I have further questions: What government is taking action on education of children from Ukraine in Polish schools? Who is responsible for these actions? Are they curators, voivodeships, or are they specially seconded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u265	You're welcome, Minister. Thank you, gentlemen, for your questions. Come in, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it must be said that Polish regulations have been allowing for many years to train foreigners who come to Poland and want to educate their children here. However, since now the scale of the phenomenon is quite different than a few weeks ago, we are taking additional legislative action, including. in a specialty about helping Ukrainian citizens arriving in Poland after 24 February. There is also part of the legislation that facilitates the adjustment of the education system to this new situation. What can Ukrainian citizens do when they have children of school age? Firstly, they can benefit from the Polish education system when they arrive in Poland. They can, in fact, go to the school where they live in the primary school area, or to the municipality's office, to the district old town, as far as the secondary school is concerned, with the fact that they want their child to continue his education. Under normal conditions, there should be information, a certificate, evidence of the level of education, but now, if there are no documents, it is enough to declare to parents or temporary guardians how many years of education their child has taken. On this basis, and on the basis of a conversation with the student, teachers and the school principal will qualify the pupils to the appropriate level of education. Those students from Ukraine who speak Polish should go to existing classes and learn together with Polish children at their age level and level of education. Those of the students who do not speak Polish should go to preparatory departments, i.e. those which in the next few months, first of all will be strongly involved in learning Polish so that children can communicate, communicate in Polish, plus the organisation of additional classes of these subjects, which should be taught at each level. It should be remembered that there are programme differences between the Polish school and the Ukrainian school, and in preparatory departments the next few months can be devoted, for example, to aligning these programme differences with individual subjects. We assume that some of the classes in these preparatory departments should be organized together with Polish children and with those branches that already function, because on some subjects knowledge of Polish language is not as necessary, as in classes from WF, for example. Foreign language classes can be conducted jointly for Polish and Ukrainian children. So far, not many children have been reported to Polish schools. According to us, it's a margin of 1%, 2%. children who are already in our territory, but it seems obvious: first of all, these families are thinking about finding their place of residence, they want to know about the conditions in our country, and then they are looking for a place to continue learning. We expect that in the coming days the number of children reported to the education system will be much higher. In order to capture this phenomenon and help school heads to enter these children and receive funding, we have modified the educational information system - there are additional fields where these students from Ukraine are listed as refugees. This will allow local authorities to receive subsidies more quickly. Let me remind you that the education system is in the overwhelming majority of schools run by local governments or by non-public entities, and they will organize classes according to these rules that I mentioned, for students from Ukraine. Curators will of course provide information about the current state of law, about the possibilities of funding, will help if necessary, while decisions will be taken and the organisation of this teaching for children from Ukraine will be provided by authorities running these schools, i.e. in most cases local governments and school heads. They will ultimately decide whether the child goes to an existing branch or to a preparatory unit. For these preparatory units to be easier to organize, we have prepared changes in the law that are envisaged, among others. possibility of additional location of classes in a different place than the existing school, so as to use e.g. other buildings that have not been educational recently, but also the creation of preparatory units, such as inter-school or even inter-school units, when there is an agreement between municipalities, because it seems obvious that a much more expensive and more difficult to organize is a branch for two or three children - otherwise it is when we talk about a dozen or twenty-several students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it is the local governments that will ultimately make decisions. We have created legal conditions for the efficient and efficient management of children from Ukraine in the Polish education system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u268	Minister, thank you for this information. You said that local authorities would be primarily responsible for the organisation of these activities and that there were also legal bases prepared, that these legal bases were already in place. But I have a question about finance: Is there really an additional funding for local governments to meet this? I have this example in recent days: there is a resort a few kilometers away from the city and you will have to deliver these children. Will there also be any State aid in this respect so that it can be implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u269	You're welcome. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u270	Minister, I have one more question. There are many teachers among these refugees. And the question is: Will it be possible and under what conditions to hire teachers from Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u271	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u272	As I mentioned in the first part of the answer, we also provide for adequate funding for the development of these students. Every Polish student studying in public schools or run by other leading bodies receives some part of the subsidy. Such a conversion pupil receives it according to the so-called. Standard A, which is just over 6,000 this year. zł, but some students, if they have e.g. a disability decision whether they fulfil any other conditions - they are in a professional school, a professional school - may receive additional weights. The same will be true of the Ukrainian disciple. Once it has been admitted to the institution, the school authority will be entitled to a grant from the student. If it's a core branch, it'll only get that basic portion of the subsidy. If a preparatory unit is set up, there is an additional weight of 0,4 - it was raised by 1/3 from the height that was still recently in force. These students, both in the primary and preparatory departments, also have the right to learn Polish additionally. There is also an additional weight for this, because we realize that we need to hire teachers who will teach Polish as a foreign language, because for the Ukrainians it will be a foreign language. So every local government, every governing body, because this also applies to non-self-government schools, if they accept these children, these students from Ukraine, will enter them in the educational information system, in the next month they will receive a subsidy for such a student. In addition, we have increased the involvement of the state budget in activities that have so far been their own and have not been financed by the State. I mean, among other things. Bringing in the students. Here I thank the Member for this question, because we are aware that this may entail considerable costs. If e.g. Local authorities will communicate with each other and create one branch that will cover several municipalities, then it will be obvious that these students from Ukraine will have to be delivered to such a facility located in another village. We're predicting funding for this shipment from the state budget. It will be the same with kindergartens. As far as teachers from Ukraine are concerned, today they already work in the Polish education system. If they were qualified, they completed their pedagogical studies, nostrilated their diploma, they could already work as teachers in the Polish education system, if of course they knew Polish language. These teachers can also work as so-called teachers. helping teachers in preparatory departments, i.e. as those who will help in translating from Polish to Ukrainian, so that the children of Ukraine can understand what information they want to share with them. There are practically no requirements here except communication knowledge of the Polish language and Ukrainian language. The teacher's help will be a self-employed worker, he can be employed on an employment contract. Here the Ukrainian teacher will also be able to perform this function calmly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak from the parliamentary club Left. The question will concern the transport of refugees from Ukraine into Poland. He will answer this question under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister Andrzej Bittel, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I would like to ask you to take the floor, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u274	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start off out of the ordinary, 'cause thanks. The Ministry of Infrastructure, in agreement with PKP InterCity, enabled travelers who are fleeing Ukraine to travel also by express trains towards Germany. This was due to the change in the category of these trains to the IC category. We intervened with Mr Krzysztof Smiszko last week. I'm glad it was done. This certainly reduces waiting time at train stations. Here, just a slight remark, Minister, please consider to change the category of trains express to IC also towards the Czech Republic and Austria, because these directions are also chosen by passengers who want to move there, who are fleeing the war. However, in the context of the transport of people from Ukraine, a few issues. First of all: What is the coordination of rail transports across the country? What it looks like especially with the trains that different people are taking. This is not some organized, homogeneous group of types of carriage, e.g. children from a child's home or from one facility. I think there's a problem here. Do these people know where to go when they get to the end station? Do they have transport for accommodations? Is this coordinated? I think this is a very important matter. And one thing, we need to start these railway transports from Przemyśl to the west of Poland, towards Wrocław, towards Germany, not to the north, to Warsaw. Here in Warsaw we have a big problem. The situation at Polish stations is also beginning to be alarming. Such signals are coming from many Polish cities. It must certainly be arranged here in agreement with the regional and urban authorities. Also in agreement with PKP SA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u275	Thank you very much, madam. You're welcome, Minister. The speaker is yours. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first I wanted to thank all the Polish, Ukrainian, Czech and German railwaymen with whom we cooperate for their cooperation. I would also like to thank all those who are trying, just like Mrs Matysiak, to make constructive demands, to contact and to try to solve all the problems together and not to implement political marketing. I'm gonna cut to the chase right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as follows. According to the state yesterday from the east side, 137 trains arrived from Ukraine, over 140 thousand. We drove over 130,000 people from the border. People. Zero tickets are spent over 200,000. - status at seven o'clock. It's like, I'm sorry... [[Voice from the hall: How many tickets, excuse me?]] Over 200,000. zero tickets for Ukrainian citizens. This information for the Member, out of kindness I will silence the name that writes the interpellation on 8 March that we need to introduce free rail transport for refugees from Ukraine. [[Voice from the room: We'll have a name.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, there was no conflict. What are you doing?]] [[Voice from the room: But this country...]] [[Minister, answer the question.]] Excuse me. If all of you are in the courtroom, I will make my statement as I see fit. That's the attention to everyone. I'd appreciate that. Anybody wants a name, they'll find a name. And yes, more than 200,000. Tickets were issued at the ticket counters. Conductors were issued. What task are we facing now? At the moment, the border in Przemyśl is three times as many people as in the ordinary movement in Medyce. These people need to be admitted, taken care of, carried out through reception and information points, which are at the border, at the stations. They go to places where they can breathe and then go on a further journey. At the moment there are fewer and fewer people who believe where they want to go from the very beginning. And for these people, we organize transportation. We organize this transport from Chełma, organize this transport from Hrubieszow, organize transport from Przemyśl. For those who will hit the LHS wide line with the help of the Ukrainian Railways. They're going to Olkus, to Zamość, in a few places. Then they are taken over by the services of voivodeships, local government, voluntary service and are transported further into the country. Of course, we have two types of rail transport, you can say for today. Transport that is decomposing, it is reinforced with wagons where necessary, because more than 700 wagon reinforcements have been completed. And there's a special transport, which is one that's organized for the transport of refugees. We move on to strategy: point A, point B, because this is going to be the best thing for us. Such trains have already been started very, very much: 64 Intercity rolling stock and 68 regional railway rolling stock. Thank you very much here for the cooperation of the organizers of collective transport (The Bell) who helped us. The next step is to make it possible... If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, just a moment longer...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u277	Or in a question, in a supplementary statement, as you wish. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: It's just me a little while longer, and then... And then I'll cut your time short. There you go. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Okay, okay. The next step is to drive those who want to move in other directions. Even if today were a conversation with colleagues from the Czech Republic and they say that there are already many people there and would recommend the German direction. As a result, we have already established cooperation with Deutsche Bahn for a few days now, we have strengthened in Berlin, on the Warsaw- Berlin-Warsaw- Frankfurt report, the Przemyśl-Wroclaw-Cottbus train rides. We are talking about the Wrocław - Germany shuttle, we are talking about the Rzepin connecting point, we are talking and we are gradually getting such declarations and real help. At this moment, the greatest burden lies on Intercity's shoulders and regional carriers, it is obvious. Any action that can support this is welcome by us, any assistance, any support. The diplomatic talks between the ministers of infrastructure are ongoing, they are ongoing, they are being implemented, we are in constant contact and we will carry out this work together. I'd like to ask you a further question, if you don't mind, if you're... Okay, it is, of course. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u278	Yes, Minister, of course there is an additional question. It was mentioned in the first part about trains. The second question concerns buses and the possibility of bus transport to residents who are fleeing Ukraine. Here, I suggest you solve it immediately. I'm asking if the Ministry is working on this solution. There is a problem with obtaining permits for the permanent transport of people from the border to the voivodship cities, but also from those cities to which the railway reaches the destination. The solution may be, Minister, to facilitate the extension of bus lines to the call. From the perspective of the carrier on the part of the route it can continue to drive as standard and extensions would be free of charge. Are you considering introducing such facilitations? That's one question. The next question is the question of those who supported public transport, taking on the transport of refugees in such an individual way, in their own cars. Do you also think about making money for these people in some way, or do you think about it (the bell) to introduce such a solution in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u279	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u280	As far as bus transport is concerned, I accept that question. I don't know the subject of any trouble with any bureaucracy in this case. In the case of bus transport, which is organized in general, this subject is taken care of by the General Command of the State Fire Service under the authority of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, because it has its own rolling stock, logistics capacity, is designated for the acquisition of additional buses. If I remember correctly the number from yesterday's staff meeting at the MMA, it is currently on the tour of 1200 buses, also obtained from various sources, as short as possible. We are now focusing on the mechanisms to make transport more flexible as well as to finance this activity, but within the framework of rail transport, because the bus, as we assume, is taken care of by the Chief Command of the State Fire Department. This is where we made a great deal of cooperation. These are people who know what they're doing. Last night, she was listed as a specialist on issues related to the working time of people related to railway safety, reimbursement of costs, certain additional things in the field of road and maritime transport. So that you will expect that at the next session of the Sejm such a bill will have its circulation, I assume. Today a meeting was held with organizers and regional carriers. We are in such a rapid dialogue, there are a couple of public consultations in this area, but I will not respond either in a affirmative or negative way to an initiative to compensate for a heart attack, as someone went and took a refugee from the border, because I am not... I don't know how to verify it and how to do so, to be honest. The idea may be interesting, but I do not know if it would be implemented in any way at this point. We focus on transporting organized large groups, preferably to destinations and in the most organized way possible, so that there is no more this secondary movement, which is, of course, because as you can see, the difference between people driven into the country and the number of tickets issued is this secondary movement, it is happening, and that is also what we need to consider. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you so much for this exchange.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u281	Thank you very much for your questions. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Marek Polak, Elżbieta Płonka and Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question on the preparation of the Polish health system to cover refugees from Ukraine with medical care. Minister Waldemar Kraska will answer. Mr Mark Polak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u282	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For several days we have been dealing with an increased influx of refugees from Ukraine, which can pose a significant challenge for the Polish health system. There is a need to take medical care of hundreds of thousands of people, including those injured during war activities. Therefore, I would like to ask what medical assistance refugees from Ukraine can count on and whether the Polish health system is prepared to provide this number of additional patients. Please also tell us whether, in addition to existing medical facilities serving refugees, further permanent care facilities will be created throughout the country and whether the National Health Fund will reimburse medical benefits to people coming from Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u284	Thank you very much. Minister! We must be aware that the health care system in Ukraine has been organised differently than the Polish healthcare system. I'm gonna ask you this as a primary health care doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u285	Turn on the mike, please, because there's something that you can't hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u286	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u287	You're welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u288	Minister! We are aware of this - I think that the Minister also - that the health care system in Ukraine has been organised differently than in Poland. The primary healthcare doctor in Poland is a doctor who opens the system, and there are certain documents in the system that allow you to run a patient. The doctor is obliged to issue referrals, while the patient is obliged to choose a family doctor. As far as POZ is concerned, it is certainly too difficult for us to force refugees from Ukraine's war to adapt to our system. Therefore, the question arises as to how the NFZ (The Bell) should direct the tasks of individual health segments to make all this actually countable, because it will certainly be a big problem with the implementation of contracts for the provision of services to refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u289	Thank you very much. Minister Waldemar Kraska, Minister of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we have come to face another problem. With regard to health care, there is a problem with a large number of Ukrainian citizens who have escaped the war and are now in our country. Therefore, we as a Polish country must provide them with the same medical care that we guarantee our citizens. I repeat: same. There won't be any favoritism. It will be the kind of care that Poles receive at the moment, given on the same basis, i.e. every Ukrainian citizen who crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border after 24 February, i.e. since the outbreak of the war, will receive free - I stress: free - medical care. No institution which has signed a contract with the National Health Fund may require either invoices or fees for the performance of medical services. I must stress this with great emphasis, because there are voices in public space that these people will pay. No, the benefits will be free. Whether it concerns a family doctor or specialized care or assistance in hospital care, benefits will be free of charge. The costs of these benefits will be covered by the National Health Fund and then the National Health Fund will be compensated by the state budget. Every family doctor, even if he does not have a patient in his group, that is, he will not be his patient, for every single advice he will receive a payment at the rate that you know for sure. We have also introduced for all those who are now arriving in Poland, free vaccinations, which, I think, are very important in a time of pandemic, which is not over. The pandemic continues, so we introduced the possibility of vaccination at all points that were created in large numbers in our country by voivodships, the Ministry of Interior and Administration. In areas where refugees may be present, it will be possible to set up vaccination centres or access the vaccine. As far as COVID-19 is concerned, the vaccine is available free of charge, so I think there will be no problem with vaccination of people who have escaped the war and will want to inoculate. We are aware that in Ukraine in recent years, the level of implantation in terms of individuals up to the age of 18 was not very high, especially with regard to diseases such as rubella, measles, polio, therefore vaccinations will also be available for these children. We want this to be done in family doctors' offices, because after a period of travel and fatigue, also stress, children should not be immediately vaccinated at these large points, this is the consultant's recommendation, but after some time we should urge these children to do so. And here I appeal to all family doctors to encourage parents of these children, because these children will probably go to Polish nursery and kindergartens. That's why I think it's very important. The Member asked whether our health care was ready to do so or whether we would be able to do so. This is certainly a big challenge because, as I said, the COVID epidemic continues. We can also see that these people are taking advantage of our health care right now. In the resort we focus on helping children, because mainly mothers and children go to Poland. At the current moment in Poland, in Polish hospitals there are about 700 Ukrainian children. These are most often quite trivial diseases associated mainly with travel, with long waiting at the border, when the temperature is quite low. These kids are just having a cold, sometimes there's pneumonia, so these hospitalizations are pretty short. But we also have children who require dialysis who need oncology treatment because this treatment in their country has been discontinued. It's the treatment we provide for these children. We are also in contact with the European Union. The aim is for the other European countries to become involved in the treatment of Ukrainian children, especially high-specialist ones. We are assured that such assistance from the European Union will be addressed to children from Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u291	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm so happy for you for everything you've said. It is very good that Ukrainian refugees will be covered by such a far-reaching, professional medical care, and it is within the National Health Fund, but I would like to ask whether, in addition to full medical benefits in Poland, the government also provides for support and medical assistance for the inhabitants of Ukraine in their own country and, if so, in what form. I would also like to ask about patients who have a particularly difficult condition, e.g. oncology. Are there any findings, and have these patients already been transferred from Poland to other countries, or have they been transported to the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u293	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, when it comes to treatment, e.g. oncology children, they are already in Poland. This is a treatment that is very effective in children, in many cases is a complete cure, so it is difficult to stop It's a treatment. That's why we went to the Ukrainian children. They actually go to Poland by various channels, because access to our border is sometimes very difficult, but this treatment in Poland is currently taking place. As I said, the European Union also declares that it will want to help us. On Monday, the European Union's Health Commissioner was in Poland. She declared 10,000. places in European hospitals, including 1 000. places for children. I'm talking about the kids, because right now, mostly this problem is in our hospitals. People between the ages of 18 and 60 do not leave Ukraine, they must defend their homeland, so there are mainly mothers with children and it is at the center of our attention right now. When it comes to helping people in Ukraine during the war, from the beginning of the conflict, from practically the first day, we send humanitarian aid, but also medical aid. It's medicine, it's medical equipment, it's dressing materials. This is mainly what the Government Strategic Reserve Agency is sending. We also received e-mails from many Ukrainian hospitals about specific needs, saying that there are no such drugs or other medicines. We have just launched a special e-mail address for Ukrainian hospitals, to which these hospitals send demand. This is the address: medicines for Ukraine. That's where it's headed, we're passing it on to the strategic reserve agencies, and from this agency, these drugs are being shipped. I must mention that Poles have open hearts at the moment. They also want to pass on medication. I would like to tone this enthusiasm a little bit, because we want to send the necessary medicine to specific places where it is necessary at the moment. You know that drugs can't always be stored like that. Canned food or other food. The drugs must be stored under appropriate conditions, there must be an expiry date, we need to know where the medicine came from. This distribution should be a little more systematic. I am in current contact with the Minister of Health of Ukraine and with the Polish ambassador (Dzinek) in Kiev, who is still there. We have up-to-date information about these needs and, of course, we pass it on as far as possible. There's a problem, because there's a war, with the pickup of our shipments, because these people to unload -- that's maybe a prosaic topic -- they're just in the army, fighting. So it's difficult, too. But we try as the Ministry of Health really from every side to help Ukraine at this very difficult time for it, and also to bring this kindred help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. Rajmund Miller and Marek Hok will ask a question about preparing the health care system for the challenges of the war in Ukraine - to Minister Kraska, who has been with us for some time. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Polish border has already exceeded over 1300 thousand due to this terrible war in Ukraine. refugees from Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now proceeding with the necessary aid bill for those people who have come here. The draft law provides for the right to medical care for Ukrainian citizens covered by the law, including health services, to be granted on the basis of the rules applicable to Polish citizens. This also means the right to supply medicines, foods for special nutritional purposes and medical devices available in prescription pharmacies. This principle will apply to people who entered Poland from 24 February this year. However, the situation will lead to an increase in the National Health Fund's expenditure on the pharmaceutical refund, as the need for medicines will increase. Minister! My question is: How did the Ministry of Health prepare to ensure that there were no drugs due to the increased demand on our market? As long as the funding of the National Health Fund is increased in connection with the supply of these 1300 thousand. refugees - and we can expect them in a short time if nothing changes, that there will be three times more? The Act contains 8 billion PLN for aid to refugees. What part will be used for health purposes, including medicines? And in this situation, so critical, are you going to mobilise the medical fund? Let me remind you that we've asked that question several times before. There is more than PLN 6 billion, which are frozen, to a small extent used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the influx of such a large number of people in quite short time, because about a week, when more than 1 million people went to Poland, will result in the increase in the demand for medical services, including medications. We're well aware of that. Therefore, as I was just saying, we do not want medicines to be bought from pharmacies and passed on in the heart reflex, because they most often do not go where they need to go, and then they can be disposed of. We want these medicines to be very coordinated and mainly by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency for Ukraine. We are in close contact with pharmaceutical companies, who also know that the need for drugs can be greater and will probably increase this consumption. So we're monitoring this market. Information from yesterday - there was indeed a large buy-out of painkillers, antipyretics. That's what we've noticed. But these medications are being replenished on an ongoing basis. I stress: we monitor the situation on the drug market so that there is no disturbance. We also monitor the issue when it comes to imports of active substances, because some drugs were also produced in Ukraine. We already have these drugs provided from other sources. When it comes to the medicines that we send there, these are the most common antibiotics, these are painkillers, recently there has been a request for insulin, especially for children, because these companies unfortunately no longer work in Ukraine. So we try to help these people on an ongoing basis. This large number of people who have gone to our country will result in a greater demand for medical services, including reimbursement of medicines. The preliminary respect that we have carried out shows that an additional PLN 200 million is needed for 1 million people per month. It's a big amount, a big amount. We are talking here, of course, not only about medicines, but also about treatment - whether it's treatment in the family doctor or hospital treatment - because all procedures that will be performed for Ukrainian citizens will also be financed as for Polish citizens. The NFZ calculations are that it's going to be about 200 million a month. The NFZ will be simplified in order not to confuse this situation, return it to the beneficiaries, and then the state budget must supplement this amount with regard to the National Health Fund. This is certainly a big challenge for our country's budget. If this is the amount spent a month, it's hard to say right now. Certainly not everyone will benefit from health care, but we must be prepared that they will want to benefit from this assistance if they are in our country for a period of time. And that help will be. This help, as I said earlier, is free of charge, available at every level. Except, of course, for example. spa treatment. But we're talking hospital or emergency care, ambulances or family doctors. It's guaranteed right now. This is a difficult situation because of the large scale, but I think that at this unique time when people come here who have escaped the war - maybe we haven't moved on to their thinking yet, but they have really escaped from death - we need to help them through human solidarity and sometimes we can't look at the costs. But of course, it will be taken into account somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Among these hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine are hundreds of thousands of children, children of whom we do not know much about their health, their vaccination and their medical records. These children according to the state will only be vaccinated after 3 months of stay in Poland - not only children, but also adults. I think that this period is too long because these children are already going to daycare, they are going to kindergarten, they are going to Polish schools. I think the deadline for mandatory vaccination for all these children should be reduced to a maximum of... Someone turned me off. Thank you very much. This time must be shortened, because Moldova, a small country that has adopted about 400,000. So far... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome, Marshal, for those extra seconds. At border crossing points in Moldova, Minister, all citizens, refugees had the right and opportunity to inoculate: adults and children. We have three months of stagnation like this. I mean, these kids are gonna go to school, kindergartens, daycare. We know perfectly well that the level of implantation, as far as children are concerned, for these compulsory vaccinations in Ukraine reaches 70% , and for certain diseases only 50%. This is a question of the safety of these children, this is a question of the safety of our citizens, our children and their parents as well. So that I ask the Minister to consider this possibility so as to shorten this deadline for the necessary vaccination. I'm not just talking about COVID. COVID, too. In Ukraine, the rate of vaccination is 35%, in Poland - almost 60%. There are possibilities of vaccination, there are vaccines, so please shorten this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u301	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! There is a slightly different scale of refugees in Moldova and another in Poland. I'm sure you must be aware of how many refugees have gone to Moldova and how many have gone to our country. I can't imagine we're still vaccinating at the border crossing. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Come on in... After all, I've been to the border crossing, I've seen what human problems these are, because they're running away from war, so they're putting off vaccination for later. But this is certainly important, especially when it comes to children, because we remember that in 2019 a large measles epidemic broke out in Ukraine. It was one of the larger bonfires, over 57,000. cases, i.e. half of all cases that have been across the European Union, so we have introduced these free vaccinations. According to the Act on infectious diseases only after 3 months of the child's stay we introduce a vaccination obligation, but also all Ukrainian children who are born in Poland already enter this calendar. These are mandatory vaccinations for them. There was also a meeting of the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. vaccination. They're experts. I'm just a surgeon. Perhaps the Member is an expert on vaccination. I think it's hard for us to judge whether these children should be vaccinated 10 days after they arrive in the country or after a month or after two months. There is no recommendation at the moment regarding the time interval in which these children are to be vaccinated. However, everyone emphasizes that this period when these little Ukrainians reached us is traumatic for them. These vaccines are simultaneously polyvalent vaccines, which means that there are several vaccines at once, but this results in a strong reduction of immunity. So I think we should wait a little bit here so that in this vaccination rush we do not cause these young Ukrainians damage. This should be done on the basis of a doctor's qualification, that is to say, a conversation with the mother about the vaccination the child had. In fact, sometimes there are no medical records, so that parents don't really know what vaccines have been given to this child, so here's the advice. vaccination recommends to start from the beginning, as if these vaccinations were not at all, so these vaccinations will also be carried out. We will certainly also have an information campaign, especially when parents want the baby to go to nursery or kindergarten, or to the environment of the children vaccinated, to mobilize these young Ukrainian mothers to inoculate their children. Also polio - this disease in Poland is de facto no longer present, and in Ukraine there is already one outbreak. It's a disease that's been eradicated, but if we don't vaccinate, it can unfortunately occur. Of course, we are most afraid of measles, but the first hepatitis A fire has already appeared, i.e. the so-called. Dirty hand disease. This is, unfortunately, related to this long transition, not maintaining hygiene rules, which is why we will also try to develop these groups, these outbreaks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u303	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm, information will be considered on the assistance of refugees from Ukraine with regard to access to public services, in particular health protection, housing and education, and government plans in this area, which was requested by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may not last more than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. A representative of the applicant may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers may not be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the world is perfect, and now we have to make a few arrangements together. 63 people, 63 Members and Members have asked questions. We have half an hour to do this. In this connection, I have a proposal that we reduce the time of 2 minutes to ask questions to 1 minute, because if everyone asks a question that lasts 2 minutes, 30 Members will not ask questions. I kindly ask Members and Members to agree to this. If I get permission, I'll move to the government side. [[Okay, okay.]] Yes? Okay, but that's not what I wanted to ask you, because MEPs are... [[We agree.]] Now I'm going to ask you ministers, but Members need to know that too. There are, for which I thank you, five ministers and a minister. Therefore, I also have a proposal for you to take the floor in two minutes, because we're just going to try to do all of this. Somehow reasonable. Let me conclude by saying this: I will not cut off these statements because the subject is very important, and I think it needs to be done wisely. Mr. Terlecki is on the agenda after me, but the situation changes everything, so I think he'll probably do the same as me. Remember, we've got 90 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also tell you that I have been in session for one and a half hours, and what I hear, what we hear, is terrifying on the one hand, but there is a lot of sense on the part of all those who help in this situation, whether they're government or opposition. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u304	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Since the first moments of Russian aggression against Ukraine, Poles and Poles have shown incredible solidarity and willingness to help. They opened their homes and hearts, went to the border and at the station with sandwiches, sleeping bags, clothes, help with transportation. This massive call of solidarity has not only allowed actual assistance to refugees in war, but has also given the government time, time to prepare systemic solutions, time for the government to take responsibility for help. Poland faces a number of challenges, challenges for today, for tomorrow, for two months and for six months. A few hours ago, the Krakow authorities published information that food supplies were running out. From this Friday they will have to refrain from issuing aid packages for refugees from Ukraine. This aid came primarily from inhabitants and inhabitants of Krakow. That's why at first I have one question, perhaps the most important question at the moment: Where is the country? [[Applause]] There's 150 grand crossing the border every day. People. It's getting harder and harder for them to find a roof over their heads. Today they give it to Polish families, giving it to Ukrainians their homes. They are to receive 2 months' financial support for this. And then what? What happens after 60 days when this backup is over? The government cannot push the problem on the shoulders of Poles and Poles. We need to make sure that people aren't left without a roof over their heads. What about those who haven't found their apartments? They're already sleeping at the train stations or reception stations. What's the government's plan? Tens of thousands of people are in danger of homelessness. How would you like to find a shelter for them for longer? Second, cheers. The Polish health system is barely vibrant. Hospitals and clinics break at seams, there are not enough nurses, there are not enough doctors, there are too long queues and waiting times. How are you going to fit over 1 million new patients into the system? Where's the money for that? Is the health department planning a quick path to admit doctors and nurses from Ukraine to the profession in Poland... [[The voice from the room: It's already there.]] ...including the organisation of free language courses and the financing of fees for the language exam? What about the other jobs? Pharmacists, diaphragm and therapists? How does the government intend to disseminate vaccinations on COVID among Ukrainian refugees? The war didn't stop the pandemic. Today we need a programme to promote vaccinations dedicated directly to Ukrainian citizens. In Ukraine, as has already been said, there are no mandatory vaccinations for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and measles. What action is the government going to take to include also adult refugees in the compulsory vaccination programme for diseases other than COVID-19? Third, education and care. Over 0.5 million children, children in need of a place in school or kindergarten, children in need of psychological assistance and support, children with whom to study, function together and learn together will also have to learn Polish children, as well as orphaned children, children from Ukrainian children's homes for whom the Polish state will have to adapt the current system of foster care. What solutions does the government plan in this regard? The Polish education system faces a great challenge in helping little Ukrainians, but also supporting Polish children in finding themselves in the new school reality. How does the government intend to increase the number of psychologists in schools? Will you adopt a law on the profession of psychologist, which would allow, among other things, for taking a job in Ukrainian psychologists and psychologists? What about the exam system? Will Ukrainian students take the eighth grade exam without knowledge of the language? Does the government plan to organize Ukrainian Matura in exile? It is a great challenge, but it is also the interest of Poland that young refugees, if they decide to stay with us, may start their studies as soon as possible. The next area is work. In the coming weeks hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians will go to the Polish labour market. Theoretically, they are to be treated equally with Polish workers. In practice, however, it may be quite different. We do not want them to be used and exploited. We do not want them forced to work in black, below official rates. This is in the interest of not only Ukrainian citizens, but also Polish workers. You have to do everything you can to protect the standards and rates on the Polish labour market. Does the government plan to increase the funding and powers of the State Labour Inspection? Where will they be able to look for help from Ukrainians who do not know Polish? Are you planning to launch the State Labour Inspection hotline in Ukrainian? We are working on solutions to make it easier for Ukrainian citizens to handle matters in the offices. Will the government help local governments to translate applications and writings from Ukrainian? It is a challenge for thousands of municipalities and other local authorities throughout Poland. Finally, the question about finance, because each of these challenges also means costs. When can we expect a revision of the budget? How does the government estimate expenditure related to aid to refugees and new income from taxes paid by Ukrainian workers? How's that gonna change public finances? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does the government plan to compensate for the costs incurred by local governments? In the case of smaller municipalities and powiats, the organisation of aid is a significant burden on the budget, which will affect investments and plans of local governments. Finally, the question of Europe. Does the government have an idea for a European refugee support fund? After all, the Polish budget cannot bear this scale of expenditure itself. Our diplomacy should have been talking to the European Commission for several days about creating an extraordinary fund that it will have to, let's not hide, be huge. Is this happening? When I look at the Ukrainian children at the Central Station, our political disputes fade. In view of this tragedy there is no right and left, it is simply a task to do. Therefore, I ask and call on the government to work with all political forces, local governments and the social side in this regard. With this challenge, no government, no matter who it is, can handle it alone. That is why the Left states clearly: we are ready to work together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u305	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u306	Mrs. Member! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I should start with the fact that the honourable Member has begun her speech by the fact that someone is buying time. Ladies and gentlemen, really for a dozen hours there has been a debate in Parliament, starting with the work on the Aid Act for refugees from Ukraine, where many of the issues that you are talking about have already been clarified. But I would like to repeat them if you have not yet heard them. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[He won't understand anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u307	Excuse me, Minister. Madame, do you think that if you say that Mrs Dziemianovich Fark will not understand it, you will help in any matter? I really don't see any arrogance or pride in this room. Let's stay in this atmosphere as long as we can. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Firstly, I would like to thank everyone whom you thanked. We appreciate this and thank you for the work that volunteers, NGOs, local governments and the government do. We work a lot together on these issues. Various meetings are held practically every day. There are some incidents in the country, ladies and gentlemen. With this scale of refugees who have reached Poland for the last 10 days, there will always be incidents and there will always be problems. We try to solve these problems on an ongoing basis as far as possible. Thank you very much to all those who are involved. For a few weeks, even before Russia's aggression on Ukraine, we worked on this system that worked 2 hours after Russia's aggression on Ukraine. 24 February at 3 p.m. At 6:00 a.m., all the voivodships were alerted. Reception points were built at the border. A few hours ago, here in the Seym, I told you all about it. I'm getting to the points you're asking me. 90% The answer to your questions, Madame, is in the law that has been presented. This law has been written together with local government officials since the first day. There were set up teams: a committee of common government and local government, labour market, social policy, science, health, self-government to improve all these activities. And the rules of access for refugees from Ukraine are set out in the government bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The first step, may I focus on one issue, to gain access to public services, because this is the main topic of this information, by a refugee from Ukraine, who declared his intention to remain in the territory of the Republic of Poland, is to obtain a number of PESEL in the municipality. We are working to equip municipalities with mobile points, so that they can, for example. get to those places where these people are temporarily accommodated to spend more time, take a picture, get a fingerprint from this person to enter all the data, complete the documents. We're gonna work on that so that these people are in the PESEL system. And why is it so important? Because they have to be in one place so that they can access all the public services that the next ministers will talk about. We act because this requires a great deal of deformity of many different procedures. This will be as simple as possible. Legal stay for 18 months is a far-reaching provision in terms of opportunities that foreigners have in Poland today. There'll be an opportunity to renew this. Why do we pay two months for accommodation and board? Because we want this person to decide what's next in the next two months. If it does not, in exceptional circumstances, as it will be. A woman with four children who won't be able to take a job, we'll continue to pay for this accommodation because the bill provides for it. We need to adapt to the needs that arise from the situation that is. If the bill needs to be amended, the bill will be amended. I guarantee you that practically every day meetings with local governments are held. We wanted the local authorities to receive such tools, Mrs, ladies and gentlemen, so that they could do this in the best possible way in the cooperation of the government and the local government. The funds you are asking for, more than PLN 7 billion, are written down in this law. Do we want foreign funds? We will take every measure to help refugees. The 500 million euro declared to be distributed to Ukraine, Poland and other countries that they accept is far too little. Additional resources are needed. I said that the bill contains 7 billion, over 7 billion PLN only from the Polish budget, but we are aware that any funds for helping refugees will be useful. The details of the next issues you have been talking about will be discussed by the ministers of the department. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! A number of public services thanks to these solutions, which Minister Chezernaker spoke about, will be available to refugees from Ukraine in principle immediately. We legacies stay and on the basis of this legalized stay Ukrainians gain access to the labour market by virtue of the law. We are completely opening up the labour market, there will be no formal requirements for obtaining a work permit. The only obligation that will counter the possible abuse mentioned by the Member is the employer's obligation to report to the employment office within 7 days of the Ukrainian employment itself. We enable Ukrainians to start their business in Poland. By gaining access, working law in Poland each of them also gains access to benefits, including social, family benefits, on the same rights as Polish citizens. This is due to the power of law, from EU regulations, from the Directive on treatment of foreigners and equal access to public services. So all family benefits, such as the 500+ programme, that Good start, that family-owned caring capital will benefit those who have access to the labour market. And a very important thing: we are introducing a new institution of temporary guardian. This is a construction developed with justice, the aim of which is to regulate the legal situation of children coming to Poland from Ukraine, because a large number of them do not come with parents, i.e. only legal guardians according to Polish law. Many of these children come with members of the further family who are not legal guardians in Poland. I also mean groups. from the Ukrainian orphanages who come with educators. The temporary guardian is (the bell) a person who will have actual custody of the child, will be able to represent them and thus save them to school, go to a doctor with him or collect the benefits that these children have. We also introduce a one-time benefit for all Ukrainians in the amount of PLN 300. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u309	Thank you very much. Minister Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Education and Science. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u310	Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish education system already provides for the possibility of training foreigners in Polish schools. However, because the scale and challenges are quite different than a few weeks ago, as you know perfectly well, we are working in the Administrative Committee and in the Sejm on a specialty that will make the existing solutions more flexible. E.g. This is an increase in preparatory departments, flexibility in hiring a teacher's help, helping Ukrainian students understand what Polish teachers say, are many facilities for local governments to create new locations for schools where these preparatory offices can be established, for example. enable teachers to work more overtime so that there is no half-time reduction and the possibility of returning teachers from compensatory benefits to school work. All these solutions are designed to help local governments and schools as flexibly as possible to receive Ukrainian children, so that it does not interfere with the teaching of Polish children. Where possible, these children can and should learn with Polish children in those classes that already function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u311	Thank you very much. Minister of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Kraska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have already answered in the current questions on many of the questions that were included in your speech, but it is not that since 24 February we have started preparing for a possible large wave of refugees. Definitely earlier there were teams, we worked together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, mainly with voivodships, to prepare for this difficult time. And that's what's happening right now. Our meetings are very frequent and up-to-date. You talked about helping Ukrainian citizens who have a medical profession, are now in Poland and would like to take a job. This is also regulated in this law, which we are investigating. Any doctor, any medical worker from Ukraine will be able to take a job in Poland in a simplified manner. We want, in those places where Ukrainian citizens are being treated, also there are doctors who speak Ukrainian, because then it is a much better help, better care for such a patient. That is why we have definitely simplified this mechanism so that they can take up employment in our country. Because of the war there are no medical universities in Ukraine, so we have at the moment more than 200 students from Ukraine who will continue to study in our departments, and more than 400 Polish citizens who have studied medicine in Ukraine and also they will continue this education at our (Dawn) universities. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work together, let's not complain, but let's get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u313	Thank you. Minister Piotr Uściński, Minister of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u314	Dear Marshal, Mrs. Member! High Izbo! As far as housing is concerned, the government does not see any particular barriers to access to this system that we have. On equal terms Ukrainian refugees will be able to benefit from the housing system, as Poles will. Of course, access to municipal housing is still a queue, although it has shortened significantly in recent years - from 163 thousand. pending up to 136 000 in 2015 waiting now, but also for such queues for communal apartments will have access, they will be able to use the Ukrainians. They will be able to use social and municipal buildings, they will also be able to enjoy our Polish hospitality in many different ways. This way, which has already been mentioned today, is to lend free of charge to their homes, to receive Ukrainian families by Polish families, which is now done simply on the basis of hospitality. On the other hand, in this specialty we want to help Polish families, because we exclude this specialty with the protection of tenants in such situations, when we lend our house or apartment for free, peace in our apartment of the Ukrainian family, we exclude the law on the protection of tenants and the ban on eviction, so that Polish families are even more open so that no one is afraid to accept Ukrainian refugees. Of course, in difficult situations it will be necessary for a community or social housing or some other place to be made available, but here it is important that we remove this barrier of possible fear of Poles from receiving refugees. Poles have already mass-accepted them, almost a million refugees are in our Polish homes. If there are more, we want it to continue. Of course, Ukrainians can also simply use the rental institution, occasional rental. There is also a question of identifying a possible location for which eviction would take place if it was needed. This is where we give up our duty. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland is our home together. Today in this house, in Poland, we have visitors. We show solidarity with refugees. This solidarity is shown by government, local government, social organisations, churches and society as a whole. I think we can be proud of that. We are proud of Poland today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u315	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that 66 people have submitted for discussion. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the first person is Mr Paweł Rychlik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, but if you would allow me, sir, I wanted to ask Mr Chezernaker one question, using the opportunity. Namely, does he have a Polish government imagination about how many people we are able as a Polish country, guaranteeing them help, accepting? Is that a million or two or three? Have you done such calculations? And if there is such a moment, and it will be that these people will be more - God forbid, maybe it will end somehow, this absurd whole in Ukraine by Putin made - do you talk to our partners in the European Union to take over these people? Because there's a line somewhere, there's always a line somewhere, and the way out is to talk to partners in the West, South and North. The point is to talk about it. Okay, that's a question. I took advantage of my position and function a little bit. You're welcome, sir. I'm sorry I came in front of you for a moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish state stood at the level of the task and the obligation to help mothers, the children fulfilled 100%. And at this point I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the ministers, the voivodships, the voivodships - those whom you wanted to eliminate - for this coordinated assistance and support. Minister, a very important bill, which we are proceeding today, provides for immediate assistance and security for Ukraine's citizens, including health security. I am referring here to the continuation of treatment, as well as access to medicines that save lives. I would like to ask, Minister, whether this bill, which we are proceeding today, also provides access to medicines reimbursed and reimbursement under the same conditions (the Bell) as Poles have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u318	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk of PiS yesterday said that the fact that there are no refugee camps is due to the government, the government is doing great - only government, government, government. The same is true: thank you to the Prime Minister, the Minister, the voivode. But you do not have the courage to thank hundreds of thousands of Poles who have found a roof over their heads... [[That's not true.]] ... all these (Applause) who came to us, our brothers from Ukraine, gave them a warm meal and supported them. [[That's not true. You lie like you always do.]] You're just thanking each other. Because it's so insolent, I had to pay attention. Well, bottom up, I'm going to say, we're going to pass the six, but there's a lot to do from the top. You treat each of our proposals like an attack. We're showing you your inability. There's no humanitarian proxy, there's no coordination, there's no strategy. Why couldn't the toilets at Central Station be solved for almost two weeks, hot tea or a meal, or even beds... [[Voice from the hall: Because Trzaskowski won't allow it.]] ...so that women had nowhere to sleep and lay down, lying with their children on the floors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm paying attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, you've opened... Mr. Marshal, I hope he'll let me finish, just one thing. Well, the volunteer coordinator from Torwar wrote to us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't take your time.]] Mrs. Anna didn't write... She's a volunteer coordinator, and I'd like to turn her in. Listen to what the volunteer who works there has to say. She wrote it two hours ago. She asked me to read it, so I read: "No funds to buy drugs for refugees." Doctors write prescriptions, volunteers buy drugs from their own resources. Two: no funding for meals. Volunteers call restaurants asking for gifts. They can't provide a few thousand meals. Three: the voivodship is not able to provide basic hygiene measures. The Voyeur provided one person to clean up. There's still a few points, but the last one...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u319	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u320	The whole facility - I finish - is coordinated by volunteers and students. There is one person who has no knowledge of crisis management who is not able to take any decisions. This is your main point. I would like you to hear what people say, who help each day. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, but, ladies and gentlemen, you're taking... [[You saw the Małopolska Voivodeship at the train station at about an hour. 4 a.m.? Did you see that? Don't be silly.]] It's been four minutes. Four less people are gonna talk. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Tomasz writes to me just now: many women with children to Poland escaped Russian bombs through Slovakia, Hungary or Romania. They were driving for a few days. I take care of these families. However, the Act applies only to people who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland directly from Ukraine. They're scared, they don't know what's gonna happen to them. Their fathers, men and sons fight for their country, and they do not know what their future will be. What are we supposed to tell them? We're supposed to hide them in the basements from the police and the deportation? Your hands are falling down. That's what Mr. Tomasz says. Therefore, I am asking government representatives what is going to happen to those whose law does not cover them. Secondly, I would like to ask the question addressed to Minister Socha. That's the job agency question. Namely, the Act provides for the possibility of registering people coming from Ukraine in the labour offices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then the obligation to pay health insurance contributions arises. The authorities ask what financial means to cover this and whether the funds are secured to pay the fees for the registration of these persons. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u323	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I ask the government nicely. That's nice.]] [[Voice from the room: Should we accept everyone?]] Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u324	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that today the most important issue is to save people's health and lives. I hope that the contested law will make this much easier. This solidarity of our citizens with the citizens of Ukraine is great and admirable. Today, in the 21st century, in Ukraine before our eyes, the monuments of the great class are destroyed and almost destroyed. We know how important these are to us Poles too. How, then, will the Polish government help the Ukrainians to save the antique substance, which is very rich and very valuable and has already largely been destroyed? So let us help the Ukrainians to save moving monuments. It's also a big part of our national heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir. [[I'm coming, I'm coming.]] I see, I see.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In the context of the refugee crisis related to real refugees, not titushki from Belarus, which is caused by what we know, the attack on Ukraine by Russia, I want to ask what are the prospects that the government will also get outside Poland money just to keep refugees in Poland. Because we must remember that, despite the sanctions that are imposed by the United States somewhere, by the countries of the European Union, certain countries, such as. The Germans, simply brazenly break out of these sanctions. Thus, they have a moral and real responsibility for how the Russian Federation can advance in this war. It's their responsibility. We must remember that these social transfers, which you want to prepare for the Ukrainians, simply cost and Poles will not be able to afford it in a moment. Then I ask for information (the bell) as you will do, where the money will come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: When the government intends to coordinate activities with non-governmental organisations at the border, at connecting points such as the Railway Station Western or Warsaw Central Station, but also in those places where people fleeing from the war are more massive. Warm meals, free toilets, transportation to the place of accommodation, assistance from translators, psychological assistance should be practically available from hand, and still not. Volunteers sometimes have to make a lot of calls to organize these basic things. Aid coordinators should be included in the crisis management headquarters, Minister. This coordination should, of course, include international organisations, the UN agenda. We need as many international organisations as possible in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause they're gonna get the money, and they're gonna get their hands on the job. I also have a question: What does the government intend to do to unlock Poland's European funds, which we need today, seem more than in 2004? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, on the Polish-Ukrainian border, representatives of the Opolskie voivodship pass an ambulance. Minister, full, loaded with the most necessary items for Ukrainian hospitals. In addition, the truck is also loaded with personal protective equipment and medicines. In a few days two powerful tira from Germany will arrive as part of cooperation between German and Opole hospitals, which will be reloaded in Opole and sent to Ukraine. I promised them that I would greet them here from this pulpit and thank them sincerely for all my help. Ladies and gentlemen! Today from morning, practically from hours. 9, we are discussing cooperation, about help, we have questions, we have answers for which I would like to thank you very warmly, because to many questions I have prepared for myself, I have already received an answer. Nevertheless, Minister Kraska, I would like to ask you one more thing - about hospitals, about financing hospitals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know the condition of hospitals, especially in the last two years, is very difficult. Are you providing financial support and can this financial support be earlier than at the end of the accounting year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u331	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For 14 days we have been facing a huge problem that was caused by Putin's barbaric attack on Ukraine. Ukrainians were forced to care for their lives and health to leave their homes. It was Poland that was the first direction, where they went. And here, in Poland, they found a safe haven. I am embarrassed to listen to the opposition country's discussions, who are attacking the government, which is currently supporting all Ukrainians, prepared the appropriate structures, prepared the services to act in order to support the Ukrainians. Together with NGOs, with local governments, we organize help that saves people's lives. I'd like to thank everyone for all this. Thanks to voivodship officials, they support Ukrainians 7 days a week 24 hours a day. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the crisis that we are facing, it is one of the largest in Europe. When around 2 million emigrants arrived in Europe in 2014, the countries of Europe, the governments of the EU countries alarmed about the refugee crisis and demanded the relocation of emigrants. As Polish government, as local governments, as NGOs, we act, support and deal with this. Therefore, I ask the opposition to support all actions and not attack in an impudent way the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I know from Mr. Kowalczyk that everything is due to the government, that the Ukrainians have found places in the hearts of Poles and therefore also in their homes, it is due to the government. The fact that NGOs are organizing transports to Ukraine is due to the government. The fact that there is no food on the Torwar, which is organized by the government, by the state reception point, only from volunteers, is the merit of the government. The fact that in Bird Warsaw - yesterday there was information that there was a shortage of food - more than 5 thousand were collected. People, it's the government's fault too. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, it is the voivode who is responsible for the organization in crisis situations, not the local government, not the volunteers, but the voivode. If there is no doctor at Central Station, if there is no food organized by caterers on the Torwar, it is only from volunteers, it means that the government has done nothing. It's high time the coordinator started doing something, because the fact that there are no camps here is about to prove to be a burden, not an advantage. That's because we're about to have to set up a spot for the next wave. And this will no longer be the waves that will be able to absorb the Polish society, and it will no longer be those waves that have a grip in the form of family or friends. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What have you done so far? [[Applause]] [[Insolence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak. Good. No, I understand. [[Voivodeship together with local government. You don't know the rules of crisis.]] Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u336	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let's stop bidding in this room, who more, and who less helps, let's start with Poles and Poles who help, take people into their homes and not ask them whether the voivode, the minister or the marshal will thank them for it, but do it with great determination and commitment. I have a question for the government whether it will support local governments, because support should already be available today to prepare all possible deserts, areas that may constitute residential areas, because we realise that many people have adopted refugees under their roof. That's today's exam. However, if there are more, whether it will drag on in time, they simply will not be able to do it, because these are huge costs for them, you have to share an apartment with these refugees. So today there should be a solution (the bell) to find premises, prepare them, support local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u338	Dear Marshal, I have a question for Minister Uściński, you are Minister, good. Thank you for pointing out the legal forms in which Ukrainian refugees will be staying in their homes. I have one question, though. You pointed to the loan facility. Let us remember that in Polish law, the institution of lending does not involve the obligation for family members to pay tax by the recipient. I think we need to figure this out. I hope this will be part of the government's work as well. The idea is that people who are admitted to housing should not be subject to a tax obligation. That's one thing. Second thing. Is there going to be a fund that can help local governments rehabilitate deserts? Because Ukrainian refugees can, on general terms, as the Minister said, report for municipal premises, because on the basis of the Constitution they constitute (the bell) a part of the local government community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I cordially invite you, madam.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u340	Thank you, Marshal. Children come to Poland, which should, also for their mental health, be introduced into the education system as soon as possible. I wanted to ask the Minister of Education how he imagines today solutions concerning, for example, Polish language learning. With the members of the Civic Coalition, we propose that the 2 billion you spend on TVP each year be used for something useful and decent (Applause) to make TV programs with Polish language teaching for children and young people. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, can you shut up... Mr. Messengers, mercy. Think about what you're doing. People are dying, and you guys are making a political row. Take care of any help you can get. Minister! Second thing. Children will take exams, including high school exams and eighth grade exams. [[We can do this.]] How does the Ministry imagine that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Should these children join them in a Polish language they do not know according to the Polish system they do not know? This requires rapid action and decisions on transition periods. The Ministry isn't prepared for this, we know that, but maybe you could take care of it. And I suggest you ladies have a little empathy. [[Voice from the room: We do.]] Go help people at the train station, and you're not screaming here. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Don't shudder, woman, don't shudder.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u341	Listen, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] I am also speaking to the Member. [[Voice from the hall: Stop talking.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've managed not to argue for three hours. [[Because we didn't react to rudeness.]] I know there's always a time when we start. Let's try to hold on for an hour, please. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u342	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ukrainians and Ukrainians who have reached Poland and will continue to come to us need everything. They're gonna need it very much. They're gonna need it. health care. Meanwhile, we know that Polish health services are in a dramatic situation. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister about what the government will do to ensure that the provision of necessary and necessary medical assistance and services to refugees from Ukraine does not have a negative impact on the availability of benefits for Poles and Poles. In particular, I would like to ask for psychological and psychiatric assistance, oncology care (Dawn) and care for the elderly. Do you expect that the long waiting times for these benefits will be longer? Are you going to do something about it? At the same time I wanted to ask about doctors, doctors and nurses from Ukraine. What are you gonna do so they can start working with us as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak. I'll say goodbye. Mr. Marshal, I just wanted to let you know that we're trying to do all this with a lot of empathy. And he's coming. [[Applause]] [[It'll get better.]] Mr. Marshal, I believe that war changes everything and it will continue. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u344	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first issue is the compulsory vaccination system and foreigners. I think that this 3-year system, which has been in force so far, maybe worked out when people came to us for trips, for internships, for contracts, but now that we have more than a million people at once, it's time to change that. The question to the Ministry is whether he's working on it. The point is to at least cut it down to a month. Of course, I was talking about three months' time. The second thing is the medical crisis. Today we can really help each other. People are looking for rescue before the war in our country, but they would also like to finish their medical studies, especially those who had only a few months to complete them. Is the government planning to change on this issue? One last thing. Let us be honest, we want to help everyone, especially in the health system, but so far we have barely dealt with the planned procedures and treatment of our patients. Is the government looking for help in other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some questions about the transport industry. Ukrainians, truck drivers who already work in Poland and have not returned to fight, need Schengen visas that entitle them to work. Until now, such visas have been issued by the Polish embassy in Kiev. Now there's actually no one to give these visas to. It seems rational to cede this duty to the voivodeships. I hope that this solution will be implemented by you. Here's another topic. Transport services, transport services today are subject to a 23 percent VAT rate. Unfortunately, this also applies to transport services for humanitarian transport. I don't want my country making money in humanitarian transport. I call for a 0% reduction in this rate for humanitarian-oriented transport services. Last, third thing. Yesterday Russia issued a decree on the confiscation of goods from trucks that carry medicines and medical supplies through its territory. Why haven't we introduced similar measures yet? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are we still letting these trucks in?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u348	Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice. There isn't? [[I'm here.]] Oh, there it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the Putin invasion of Russia on Ukraine, the government has launched aid at all possible levels. Voivodeships and officials practically 24 hours a day provide assistance to Ukrainian citizens in accommodation, food provision, transport. Medical care is provided, cleanliness and personal hygiene are provided. State services, Border Guards are involved. Caritas Poland has joined humanitarian aid on a large scale. Self-governments already receive a large amount of funding for the reception of refugees. Let us be aware that from the beginning of the invasion more than 1350 thousand have arrived in Poland. Ukrainian citizens: mothers, children, older people. Logistically, it's a huge undertaking in every way. I have a question: What rules will be used to support individuals in carrying out additional tasks, including: Education? A plan has been prepared for the organisation of medical protection for persons injured by armed conflict in Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the resolution of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u350	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u351	Mr. Marshal, the question is... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u352	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The war was found in Ukraine by Polish medical students. It's a group of about 400 people. This year, about 80 people should take the final exam. Question to the Minister: How does the government plan to develop these people in the healthcare system in Poland? Will this group of 80 people be able to take the final exam in Poland and start working in health care this year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u354	Thank you. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What concrete tools does the government plan in terms of strengthening the protection of Polish and Ukrainian workers in these difficult times, which are ahead of us? Unfortunately, we have the right to suspect that the next months and years will be very difficult for employees in Poland. In the Polish labour market there will be several hundred thousand, or maybe even more new workers, and they will be workers and employees who will not know the language at first. In the vast majority of them will be women with children, without means of life, so those who are very vulnerable to exploitation and abuse by employers. Necessary sanctions against Russia and the war situation will also have a negative impact on the Polish economy. We have the right to suspect that there will be more unemployment. This is a very dangerous cocktail and requires a firm state response. Does the Polish State plan to strengthen the State Labour Inspection? Does he plan to strengthen trade unions and cooperate with them in order to protect Polish and Ukrainian workers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for specific answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u356	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u357	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! I have a big appeal to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! In Ukraine people die, there are bombarded cities, civilians are murdered, and women are raped and it's already happening. They are fleeing to Poland, almost 1.5 million of them have already accepted Poland, and you have been engaged in fighting against the government. [[No, mobilizing.]] It was the opposition who shared it very well. One side comes out and says that there are no free drugs, there is no doctor here, there is no something there, and the other side goes out and says: how can it be that Ukrainians have better than Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a tragedy in Ukraine, but this tragedy affects all of us. We have to help, so let's finally unite and help. Today there are refugees at our borders, but if Ukraine loses, we do not know what will happen. So, ladies and gentlemen, big appeal: stop looking at the polls. All of you who are not yet involved in this work together, let us work together to help (the bell) and not to shout here on the platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Volunteers help.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u358	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u359	Polish people... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And Michael Szczerba?]] It was read, but I don't think it's there, Member. Polish entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized, in the last 12 months, have been affected by various waves of horrors, because they had to fight against closing their companies forcefully, they had to fight for money from the shield, often they did not receive them, they had to fight against the Polish Ład, with chaos, with a mess in the regulations. And today, often very beat up, they are affected by the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine, but do not give up and help the Ukrainians. They organize meals, organize accommodations, and also organize workplaces. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question, but that question is really for the Prime Minister. Will you help Polish entrepreneurs, micro-, medium-sized Polish craftsmen at least minimally? And is there any chance that the 2021 tax settlement deadline will be extended by several months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u360	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we have an emergency situation. More people fleeing from war, i.e. from death, reach Poland. The number of people arriving is very, very high. We were informed about the actions we were taking. There were conferences with the voivodships. In the hall, I see people who, like me, participated in these conferences. At that time, we reported comments that were being made to us parliamentarians, people who were also involved in helping refugees. Action was being taken on an ongoing basis. Some of the comments were taken into account in the specialization that we are investigating. Thank you all so much for getting involved in this. Disinformation doesn't help us. Everybody do what they can. We know that there are two teams coordinating activities: one at the Ministry of Health, the other at the Ministry of Health. Let's work together, then maybe we'll do more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u362	Thank you. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We see the incredible sacrifice of Poles and Poles. Titanic work done to support the wives and children of heroic defenders of Ukraine. I don't even want to ask you how the government's helping anymore. I want to know if you even know who you're supposed to help. Is the Government of the Republic of Poland aware of how many refugees from Ukraine currently reside in Poland? [[The voice from the room: That's rude.]] Where are these people? What cities? What voivodships? How many people are in private? How many local governments? How much under the possible care of the government? Is the government able to estimate what kind of help they need? How can you provide school care, medical care, work without such data? I don't think you're saying it's gonna be okay, 'cause it's not gonna be okay. I'm expecting specific information. We are threatened by a humanitarian disaster, and bringing about this catastrophe is also Putin's goal. The question now needs to be asked what causes the government's inaction. Is that your inability? Is this some sick game you're playing with your friends, Orbán... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[You're sick. Woman, what are you saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u364	You've been screaming. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u365	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You're causing chaos.]] Could I have your silence, please? Excuse me, could I have a word with you? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u366	Ma'am, ask the question, because time is passing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u367	Thank you very much. I have a question for you, Deputy Minister. We know that according to the 2019 Regulation, we have limits in kindergartens and schools, which is a limit of up to 25 people. I would like to ask if the Ministry is considering increasing these limits. Small local governments in particular, like my local government in Gryfin, call for an increase in these limits, because this would be an immediate solution if we increased by two or three more people. We could take these people right now. So we want that guarantee. [[But it's regulated.]] Thank you very much. If you're a minister, you'll answer my questions, I promise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But read the bill.]] I would like to ask if people with disabilities will only have access to PFRON and the Solidarity Fund programmes. Shouldn't they be granted statutory rights such as Polish citizens? Am I predicting perhaps (the bell) some quick path to confirm the status of people with disabilities... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because we know what this situation is like right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u368	Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. [[I'm asking for your respect.]] Okay, okay, okay. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Kowalczyk said that thanks to the government of PiS there is no refugee camp in the territory of the Republic. I ask: And the great halls filled with several thousand people - aren't they refugee camps, can you say, of a higher standard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u370	They're not, they're not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u371	But still. So it's not just a mistake for the Prime Minister to count the credit costs, it's also a mistake for reality. We want to create a refugee relocation system, and that's what big cities demand. They can receive smaller centres - let's create a housing resource there, especially in rural areas, in such a way that whoever has a place, sign a contract with the local government and the local government will relocate refugees from this resource. He's gonna be handing these properties over to them. The same could apply to government administration. A very specific mechanism that will cause us to have an apartment bank (the bell) and then we can transfer them in an orderly manner...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u372	Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left. You don't have one?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u373	... while financing - one sentence, Marshal - adaptation and minor renovations, which in many cases are needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u374	Therefore, Mr Mariusz Trepek, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree that this debate should take place in a good, peaceful atmosphere. I have a question for Minister Bossner, a very serious question: Minister, given the dramatic situation in Ukraine, is Poland ready to accept 5 million refugees? Are we launching, or is the government launching relocation mechanisms not only in the country but within the European Union? There are European countries which have much more experience than Poland in hosting such a large number of refugees. You are from Szczecin, I am from Szczecin, you know how much experience Germany has in creating this type of - let's not be afraid of that word, this word must be used - temporary camps for refugees. This isn't about Mr. Prime Minister's mistake this morning, it's not really about that. Without these transit camps, we just can't do it. It is good that Poles have a heart, but it cannot be a common movement of Poles who will accept (the bell) refugees home. This must be a coordinated policy of the Polish government and European governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u376	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point in Krakow, we have huge chaos as regards activities related to helping refugees. They're camping at the train station. We know that in Krakow the food packages are already being collected thanks to the help of the locals. I have a question about this coordination, because we see that this system just doesn't work. We see people crowding in the station halls. We see the inability to coordinate transport. So my question is, isn't it time for us to get to the point where we learn from what's going on? Because local governments feel like they're left to themselves. Voivodeships deal with this problem differently. In fact, in the middle of this, there are thousands of volunteers who are trying to patch all these holes with their own strength. Citizens, citizens of Ukraine, people fleeing from there from war. These disputes that we are having here are disputes, but there is a human life that we need to take care of (the bell), also by learning and creating some kind of coordination.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u378	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much like the words of the representative of the Left that we act in harmony so that we do not fight each other, to be implemented by all States. And the question to the Member, the remark that was first from the Left, and now he's on the Platform. Yes, sir. I thank from this speaker all Poles and Poles, all local governments, all people who have hearts, open their hearts and also thank the government, which organizes this help in a harmonious and well-managed way. I have a question, though. Are many Ukrainians... Because the government has also stood up to the challenge in this respect. Not only the house, not only shelter, not only food, not only care, but also vaccinations against-COVID. You have also made sure that the Ukrainians (the bell) as well as Poles... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u380	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Transport inside the country is limping and there is a lack of coordination. In Rzeszów, like in many cities, there is already an intervention point for accommodation. The needy stay there from a few hours to 1 day, 2 days and need transportation into the country. There's a transport problem going on there. The government should start coach transport from border crossing points or to border locations where reception points or information centres are located. In these places, groups should be organized for transport into the country. This task should be carried out and financed by the State. The price of fuel at the moment is by far over 7 PLN per litre of diesel, with a growing trend, so the funding by volunteers and sponsors is running out. Does the State intend to organise and how it intends to organise transport into the country in an international agreement? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u382	Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You're saying the government isn't doing anything. I'll just read the statistics. Border traffic on 7 March 2022: entry into Poland - 72 thousand. refugees; Medica - 34 thousand, including on foot - 18 thousand.; by rail - 8200; Korczowa - 16 300 refugees, including on foot - 5700; Budimeter - 14 700, including on foot - 8,000.; Kościenko - 7 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen! Who took these people? Border Guard, customs service, Caritas diocese of Przemysl, Caritas Poland, Caritas diocese of Zamojsko-Lubaczowska (Dzwonek), volunteers - all people of good will. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u384	Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every day the Polish-Ukrainian border is crossed by women with children, older people, people with disabilities. More and more often, Polish carers of people with disabilities come to my office in Bydgoszcz, who point to the problem of the lack of involvement of the Polish government, the offices of government representative for people with disabilities in helping this group of refugees. It is the Polish families themselves, who are often in a difficult situation, who help refugees with disabilities. They search for apartments, organize necessary equipment, hygiene supplies, medications and medical assistance. Is the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy known the number of older people with disabilities who have reached Poland? What form of assistance and care is envisaged by the Polish government? Is it intended to provide these people with the necessary medical equipment, the necessary hygiene supplies? Who in the Ministry of Health coordinates and is directly responsible for this support and care for the elderly and persons with disabilities who have arrived in Poland from Ukraine? What action (the Bell) has the government's representative for persons with disabilities taken so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u386	Mr Jacek Czerniak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, from this speaker, are beautiful words. We thank those who help. Some begin by thanking volunteers, others by self-government, others by government. But we all thank the Poles. I appeal to the ruling coalition: do not be offended by the opposition. If the opposition says that it has certain ideas, wants to help, wants to co-create this activity, then there is nothing to be offended. I have specific questions for the government. Does the government have information where people who crossed the Polish border go along with our fellow countrymen? 'Cause it happens all the time that cars come up. In the act of a great heart, an open heart, certain people are invited, taken away and going somewhere. Whether the government has such information in an operational or formal system, where these people go. Second question: Do we have any information on how many translators are there? Is there a data bank that translates? Because we often say at meetings that there is a deficit (the bell) translates. And the third question - prescriptions. Does the Minister consider that drugs will be refunded? Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u388	Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A low bow and a warm thanks to everyone. For all those who, from private citizen Kowalski to government, engage in helping with this exodus. We are talking about nearly 1.5 million people who have already arrived, and this number will continue to grow. The heart of Poles is huge, the tolerance of the great Western society can learn from us these proper social behaviors. So that a heartfelt thanks to all and an appeal to rise above the messages of the day, orders of party leaders, only to cooperate for the sake of those people who come to us and need our help. Question addressed to Minister Uściński: Can refugees from Ukraine be used to live in a non-residential location, e.g. office or service? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u390	Thank you. Katarzyna Piekarska, Civic Coalition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This was already mentioned today during the meeting: many Polish families took under their roof fleeing the war of the Ukrainians. We know that. We know the people who took someone into their home, their apartment. And this raises an important question: Does the state, the government have knowledge of where and with whom these people are? This is a really important issue, especially for security reasons both those who escaped the war that came to us from another country and our fellow countrymen who accepted them? This is also important in the context of a good, efficient organisation of public services, which will be used by visitors from Ukraine in our country. Do you have such knowledge at this moment, or are you preparing a register, as well as working on the possibility of reporting these people? 'Cause it's gonna be really necessary in the next few days. Thank you very much. [[It's done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u392	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u393	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is no time for criticism and insulting words right now. I thank all the people of good faith from my constituency. I'm proud because both self-government officials and Mr. Voivodeship and all non-governmental associations are working together. There is no longer a Member who does not know that the crisis staff is the statutory task of the old-fashioned. Every old thing has a crisis staff - that's what's happening in my district, that's what's happening everywhere - that works with the voivode. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your goodwill at this time. I've got a lot of Ukrainians coming into my office with children, and I'm helping out as much as I can. I don't look at the political colors of the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to work together... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u394	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today we focus on humanitarian aid issues, but in the perspective we must see that some Ukrainians coming to us, even if the war ends, will stay with us and grow roots. They will not necessarily want to change their cultural and national identity. Are we now paying attention to how well and in friendship we can coexist with our fellow believers, whom we have helped and who are also helping us? Because we know what demography is now in Poland and what the labour market is. Are we mentally prepared to shield them from divisions? I want to give you an example here. In the village where I live, Krzanowice, most residents identify themselves as a German minority and help, do not look... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u396	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The cooperation and solidarity that we show to the Ukrainian people should also concern the expectations of this society, which often expresses a desire to return to Ukraine when the conflict is over, when Ukraine will again be a sovereign state. These people express their desire to say that as soon as the bombs stop falling, they are able to return to their little homelands all over Ukraine. I therefore ask you whether the government has started work that would allow for the creation of a coordination system for all those who would like to return immediately after the ceasefire and the end of the conflict. Do we have an idea for any Internet portals, local co-ordination? Do voivodship offices and voivodships make such preparations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u398	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u399	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine a building that's in flames. The family tries to get out of the flames quickly, but the father, standing in the middle of a burning living room, starts an argument over a twisted tap or a mess in the hallway. And instead of acting quickly, they're hellish, arguing and clearing the household from disorder. Do you really want to be remembered like this as just constantly picking on even at such a difficult time? Today we are in crisis management mode. All Poles do everything possible and even more to help Ukraine and secure our country. It's a great common move with the help the world hasn't seen since World War II. Stand at the height of the task, your hands aboard, and time for reckoning, let's leave the evaluation to the moment we get this difficult situation under control. The government is two and three, introducing solutions that the whole world appreciates very well. Reception points have been created, solutions for refugees have been implemented, along with our allies from NATO and the European Union, we are introducing solutions (the bell) to help Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u400	Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u401	Don't be like that father who, instead of evacuating his family quickly... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u402	Thank you, Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have specific questions. Question from Lower Silesia: Is it true and do the ministers and the minister know that in view of the fact that the voivods have declared that the rates of living will be lower, in many places it will be necessary to move 200, 300 people to other centres? Because where the contracts are signed and where contracts were signed in Lower Silesia setting the daily rate much higher, because in the amount of PLN 100, these people will have to be transferred. It's about those people you're talking about. And as part of this good cooperation with the local government, it will be so that the local government will not be able to afford to cover the costs of this stay, and the local government will have to break these agreements and move refugees to another place. And these are mostly mothers with children. They will be moved to another place because they say the stakes will be 40 PLN. Is it true, and do you think that 40 zlotys of daily living or living for a mother with a child is enough? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lower Silesia requests an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u404	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions, because there is no doubt that there will be more and more people from Ukraine who will come to Poland, and therefore probably such help as it is now, will also be limited in a moment, because people, residents of Poland will simply not have the opportunity to receive people from Ukraine. Question one. Did the government discuss with State Treasury companies the possible transfer of the centres which all State Treasury companies have, i.e. thousands of accommodations, to help refugees? Second thing. I'm from West Pomerania, from Szczecin. There's information that if someone gets to the western wall, they'll probably want to go on to Germany. The question is therefore: Does the government have agreed (the bell) also with the German side on aid issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u406	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're at a difficult time in history. We have seen the biggest crisis in Europe since World War II. There are refugees from the east coming to Poland all the time. All this shows that there is an urgent need to appoint a government representative to develop a comprehensive programme of coordination for refugees as soon as possible, as the voivods simply do not cope with this. And it's day 14 of the invasion. When, then, can appropriate action be expected in this regard? Here's another thing. According to the U.S. Secretary of State who hosted our country, the U.S. President's administration has asked Congress for permission to transfer nearly $3 billion to support humanitarian services. How much of this pot will go to Poland? What financial resources will be made available to local government units that are currently suffering large expenditures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u408	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The scale of helping Poles and Poles for the Ukrainian people is huge. Unfortunately, there is also a fairly large scale of abuse when it comes to currency exchange in terms of prices for gastronomy, taxis or hotels or loans. One of the loans at one of the stations has a real annual interest rate - that is in Ukrainian - 1993,51%. The same is true at the Warsaw Central Station. Taxi drivers charge Ukrainians for slamming doors from 80 PLN to 300 PLN. I have a question for the government as to what it intends to do with this and whether it has addressed to the KNF, the Financial Ombudsman, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on these issues, and also, the second thing is whether it has complaints which it brings to the government and which today is pointed out by the Ombudsman. Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u410	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, as you can see, the opposition did not last long without hitting the government, despite the declarations and assurances of willingness to cooperate. The truth is that the Polish government reacted rapidly to the situation in Ukraine. Since the first day we have taken action together with voivodships, local governments, organizations and thank you very much for this. I also thank our fellow countrymen for their open hearts. When war refugees from Ukraine find coordinated assistance in Poland, opposition politicians behave as if they lived in another world. Do you really not see that you are calling today for what the government has been doing for 14 days? [[When were you in central?]] Some of your speeches sound like Kremlin's order. Stop lying and misinformation. Don't make politics out of human tragedy. [[And you do anything.]] This really isn't the time, and this isn't the place. [[Applause]] [[You guys better get to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u412	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, a large part, most of this help on their shoulders today took Poles. System solutions are therefore very important. I wanted to ask the Minister about concrete solutions - because we expect more refugees to come to Poland - when it comes to education. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask if all government centers, the accommodation base at the disposal of the government, are ready. Practically every ministry out there has some training centers at its disposal. Is it prepared? Third, I wanted to ask you about the involvement of the Territorial Defence Forces. These are the troops that have a base for this, they have beds, they have tents, they have blankets, they have cars, they can be 100% involved in this assistance. I wanted to ask you what the involvement of this type of Armed Forces is like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u414	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I woke up rich. And it's not about the money. It is gratitude that I have a house, a bed, food on the table. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all those people from Ukraine who are refugees today are in Poland, the Polish government, Polish institutions, all Poles, business companies, as well as volunteers are trying to guarantee this house, this bed, this food. But in the meantime, the European Parliament is discussing a resolution on the blocking for Poland of the financial resources needed during this period. Those people who will vote in favour of this resolution will personally call me traitors of economic interests of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u416	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! War is a terrible, traumatic experience for every human being, but the greatest trauma affects children, especially children whose experiences are terrible. The participation of these children in the war causes that for years they cannot cope with the mental phenomena that affect them. Often this trauma stays the rest of your life. That is why it is so important to help, especially children, and to help quickly. We have already talked about this, about it earlier my colleagues said that it is necessary to act as soon as possible to get the children back to school, so in a sense they had a substitute for this normal life that was going on in Ukraine to get them back to kindergartens, daycare, to have health care, after-school activities and many other things. Minister, I would like to ask: What amounts, what funds can Poland allocate specifically, precisely to help children? How large (the bell) can we take care of the number of children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u418	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u419	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Seym! I am proud of Poles, I am proud of the Polish government, I am proud of Polish self-governments, that we opened our hearts and homes for Ukrainians, for those fleeing the war of the Ukrainians. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister, a colleague of Uściński: Will Ukrainian citizens, refugees, those who decide to stay in Poland be able to apply for municipal housing and how will this be done? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u420	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP? Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is a Member.]] But she's not here. [[Voice from the room: He's in, he's in.]] Where? [[Voice from the room: At first he sits.]] But he's not talking. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the first days of the war, I've been observing the operations of the services at the border. Thanks to coordinated action and good cooperation of all local authorities, these actions have been coordinated and already on 25 February in the Lublin region and Podkarpacie we received several hundred women in newly opened centres. Every day these people are getting more and more. There are difficult situations, difficult questions, but answers and solutions are found. The Humanitarian exam in the first hours was given by the government, voivodeships, self-governments, Border Guard, Police, firefighters from CSR units and local residents. It should be noted that the work of the services at the border has been efficient and coordinated from the outset. The government has undertaken a number of aid measures, logistics has been developed and implemented procedures and rules for the creation of reception points, accommodation for refugees and transport. We all know how important it is to ensure housing, social and educational conditions. One of the main tasks during these first days of refugee influx was psychological and therapeutic assistance and integration in a new environment, especially important (The Bell) for children after such traumatic experiences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u422	Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u423	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The situation that our country has been in for two weeks has been special. The war on the territory of Ukraine, our neighbour, caused the need for multidimensional assistance to the people of this country. It is implemented both at government, local government and at civil initiatives. Therefore, first of all, I would like to thank the government at the head of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for the quick, courageous and decisive decisions made since the first day of the outbreak of the war. I would also like to thank your voivodship, Eve Leniart, and the employees of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship Office. I know that in some of his departments about 60% people working in them are involved in activities related to the assistance of refugees at reception points. I would also like to thank the services, headed by the Bieszczadzki branch of the Border Guard, the Police, the State Fire Department, the National Tax Administration, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, and many other joint administration bodies that are involved in activities at the Polish-Ukrainian border. The aid for people leaving Ukraine was organised immediately. [[Applause]] [[Enough praising, they'd better get to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u424	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In two years, i.e. in 2014-2015, as many immigrants were sent to Europe, how many were now in Poland within 2 weeks. This was then determined by the great immigration crisis. That's why I think it's a great harm to the Border Guard, the police, the firefighters, the employees of the provincial offices, the PKP employees, the WOT soldiers, if the government doesn't do anything. Are these employees doing nothing? Each one of these people is wholeheartedly involved in helping refugees. Of course, we confirm that in a very, extremely devoted way we work local government officials, NGOs, all Poles. From this point on, I would really like to thank Mr Nitras here... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u426	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u427	...for his reasonable statement and for his reasonable question. Yeah, we need that kind of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a substantive discussion without these...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u428	Mr... Isn't Mr Lorek here? [[Voice from the room: He's here, he's waiting.]] Well, go ahead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I want to talk about something positive, which is what it looks like in my Piotrków district. In the first days, the Łódź Voivode asked one of the local authorities to organize the places. The local government immediately took action, found several hundred such places, informed the voivode, and the voivode sent emigrants to him. We immediately take action together with the local government to obtain food for them. To sum up, what does this mean? If you want to work with the voivodship, with the MPs, with the business, you can coordinate this help so that we can develop a very large group of people. And this is also the Piotrkowski starosta. I'd like to thank him very much from this place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u430	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u431	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make you aware of the reality of the current government. The crisis of the century related to the pandemic has not yet completely ended. We have an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. At this point I would like to thank all Poles who behaved properly. Every local government and government level has its assigned tasks. And that's what's happening. Good, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it's quiet. Don't do the theater. I would like to appeal to you again for your empathy and substantive work, because this is what Poles expect. It's the voters on the ballot that's gonna settle you. Now, don't really ask questions about things that are in the bill. Just read it. It is really not worth putting political capital on the heavy fate of the refugees in war. [[Applause]] [[Tell that to your friends what they're photographing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u432	Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Today Poland and Poles are giving a test of solidarity with the warring Ukrainian people. Poles opened the hearts and doors of their homes for refugees before the war and suffering inhabitants of Ukraine. But it must also be said that thanks to the effective diplomatic efforts of the President, the Prime Minister, we have also awakened the consciences of the leaders of Europe and other countries. My question to the ministers: Has the European Union finally decided to mobilise the funds due to Poland for the National Reconstruction Plan? Which countries have already decided to support Poland with the adoption of refugees from Ukraine by Poland? I would like to thank all Poles, especially the people of my district, i.e. Małopolski. Thank you, Mr Voivodeship of Małopolskie (Dzinek), thank you to Caritas, also to all local authorities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u434	Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. [[Mr. Marshal, please be clear, because we can't hear who you're calling.]] But I called you, like, three times.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarity and unity - these should be the basic words in this House today. Today we need unity. From this speaker I thank not only all Poles who opened their heart and showed this great heart, all local governments, NGOs, parliamentarians and government, but also local governments, especially the local government of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship, where the model cooperation between Łukasz Kmita and Marshal Witold Kozłowski and all local governments, NGOs, Caritas and PCK shows how much we can do. New Snot, I mean. from the small county, the district of Nowy Sądecki, today 12 or 14 aid tiras have already left. And thank you to all the companies that are involved. Thank you. I also thank Minister Sellin for the fact that, in addition to saving our lives, we also want to save our heritage, these museums, archives, especially the Lviv archives. And that's what I'm asking. Let us save human life, but also a common history and tradition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u436	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I don't want to put any personal details here, but my family is in a similar situation, not me, but my parents. Really, what refugees need right now is a warm apartment, a warm shelter and a heart. And so I have a question about this housing stock that's been growing lately, and it's increased by 5.5 apartments per thousand inhabitants in the last five years. Will it be possible to use rooms that are e.g. social or space that can be adapted in some other way by facilitating these procedures? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second thing is: What is the safety of those who rent this type of apartment for a later return? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u438	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u439	Public authorities play a key role in the crisis management system. But public authority is both government and government. Each of these segments has its very important roles and can act actively in advance, but can do nothing. In 1997, when there was a flood, the Prime Minister of the Left said that he was not interested in it, farmers should be insured, and local governments, presidents went into barricades and helped, even though there was no crisis management law at the time. Now the government in this great crisis precedes everything, helps diplomatically, militaryly and legally, while local governments also have their responsibilities and must act in advance. Laws, which are now also implemented in advance, also provide that you need some decisions, you can say, legalize. But you can't avoid it. Local governments have their own level of county and urban. They have to do it at the stations, everywhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so are the other structures, later, further, the government. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u440	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The jokes are over. You could say that at the moment 10% The inhabitants of Warsaw are Ukrainians and Ukrainians. It's already on the edge of the city. There's a few things to correct. We're asking for voivodeship activity here. The first thing is the Central Station. It's been 14 days and there's still no conditions there. I would like to say very clearly that this is not the competence of the city, it is the competence of the voivode to lead this point, this reception, this reception meeting the basic standards. These people do not stop in Warsaw, this is a stop place on their way to the west of Europe. They really need to keep good memories here. The second point, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is the issue of the citizens of Belarus. It cannot be that refugees, citizens of Belarus, who were fleeing to Poland together with Ukrainians, will have a different status in Poland. I would ask that this law take into account the status (the bell) of Belarusian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u442	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u443	The Minister said it's time for work. Well, the time to work was for local governments to sort things out at the Central Station, in Przemyśl, in Medyce and in Rzeszów, because this first movement was a movement of local governments and people who had hot hearts. Since November, you have known and already had to prepare a strategic plan for the functioning of the State in a crisis situation and for the provision of humanitarian aid. Is there a plan? He's not here. Now, a test for your integrity. Today: impunity+ - if you accept, you will show what your intentions are. It's really gonna be a shame if we break the rules. And my last question. This coordination, which some have said, unfortunately failed, was not between the government and the local government. I call you because to me (the bell) local government officials turn and complain... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u444	I would now ask you to speak with the applicant's representative Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u445	Thank you very much to the representatives of the government for all the answers they have received. I really thank you for taking the time not for me or for us in this Chamber, but especially for Poles, who today, helping themselves, are waiting for information coming from this building, from this room concerning what is next. Thanking you for your answers, I must say that most of them, however, were limited to recalling the records of the specialty that we are now proceeding on in the Sejm. Please don't misunderstand me, this bill is needed, of course, without any indictments about the impunity of power, but it only responds to some ad hoc needs. But before us, before you, a Polish marathon, not a sprint. In addition to solutions for today or even for two months in many areas, we need a long-term strategy, so I would ask you kindly to supplement the information on responses from outside the law. Minister Chezernaker recalled the amount of PLN 7 billion from the budget for helping the Ukrainians. I ask for an estimate of how many people have enough money to help and how this number is expected, how many refugees from Ukraine will eventually be able to accept Poland. Whether it's 2 million, whether it's 3 million and what's going to happen above this number, if there are more people at Poland's borders. Minister Socha pointed to the question of the protection of Ukrainian workers only to the employer's statutory obligation to inform about the employment of Ukrainian citizens. Who is to control this obligation, whether this obligation is being carried out and, more importantly, how you intend to strengthen these control bodies, the State Labour Inspection, financially, human resources, and as far as powers are concerned. It's a matter of apartments. Minister Uściński said that I quote: the government does not see barriers to Ukrainian rent of apartments. And does the government, Minister, see that there are no apartments for rent? Does he see the housing + ¿ program flap? If he sees it, what is he going to do about it? If he can't see, could he kindly open his eyes because this problem is more serious today than it was two weeks ago, and in two months it'll be more serious than it is today. Because excluding tenant protection and relaxing the ban on eviction, you risk a wave of homelessness when support for host families is over in two months. We cannot expect Poles to have enough strength and money, even if they are extremely hospitable today, to take help on their own shoulders, which should be systemic. After all, education. Minister, you did not answer the question about additional psychological assistance in schools for both Ukrainian and Polish children, because Polish children also need support in this difficult situation. Will you adopt the Left law on the profession of psychologist so that you can hire psychologists and psychologists from Ukraine also in Poland? I would also ask the Minister to fill in the information on the issues concerning exams, the issue of eighth grade exams and Matura for Ukrainian students. It's March, those exams and graduations soon. What specific plans do the Ministry of Education and Science have in this regard? Thank you very much again and I would like to ask for your answers, too, in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u446	Thank you very much. Now we have the government's answers and the deal, as far as I understand that each of the five states has two minutes. Please, as the first Minister, Paweł Chezernaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of questions, but also a lot of information that needs to be corrected, and they are also straightened out in different other places. But I'm gonna focus on a few things. The first concerns the Central Station, because the state has repeatedly raised this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of any organization, many of which are at the Central Station, has been coordinated by the State Fire Department since this morning. During our debate - I would like to give you an example of how various information is spreading, which is false - one of the leaders of the Civic Coalition tweeted that 10 firefighters are what you threw at Central Station. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. I have information at the moment: 30 firefighters from fire school, 14 firefighters from the city command and six paramedics, a total of 50 firefighters only in this one place, and we'll be in other places, at other stations. We respond to all these issues that arise at a given time, and we try to solve them. About the Torwar thing... There was a question about one of the ladies who posted an entry on social media. Mr. Veteran Radziwiłł just talked to her, half an hour they talked to her. Mr Radziwiłł is on Torwar, and in a moment will also inform the media about the situation. Because there are often situations that are unheard of by people on a daily basis. We have a war situation. At night I was at the Central Station, I saw it, there are actually many people waiting for trains. I ask these Ukrainians and I say to them: we can take you to Torwar, there is transport. They answer: we have a train in a moment; in 8 hours we have a train; in 12 hours; we do not want to move from here - so it is not a simple matter, ladies and gentlemen, that those who come here with trauma, who have fled the war, force them not to sit at the station at this moment. They think that if they leave this station, they won't be able to come back here in a minute, for example. They have a train ticket to the west of Europe. We also organise transport to other countries of the European Union, and we talk to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On Friday there will be a Commissioner for Transport of the European Union, there will be ministers for the infrastructure of Germany, the Czech Republic and several other countries, there will be talks about coordinating these actions so that all those Ukrainians who want to go to the West of Europe can go to the West of Europe. If I could still, Mr. Marshal... [[Marshal, allow me, because these are important matters.]] An important point is also the question that has been repeated. in a few Members: the issue of preparing for the next wave. Because that first wave was a wave where a lot of people were prepared. They came to Poland, Poland, and already had places here with friends, friends and family. In the first days it was 5-10% people who were looking for places organized by the state, by the local government, by NGOs. Today it is already much more, and I think that if the Russians in their aggression are surrounded by other cities, there will be a lot more people who are disorganized. We are preparing for this, we are also talking to the Association of Polish Cities, we are talking to other institutions, organizations, local governments, to prepare a lot more places for the following weeks. They will of course be of a lower standard of accommodation than those of the first week, because in the first week there were plenty of places in various holiday resorts, hotels or other locations that were reported by the local government. [[The stakes?]] It is not true that there is no cooperation with the local government. Maybe she doesn't look perfect anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken repeatedly to President Trzaskowski this week, last week, with President Majchrowski, who said directly at the meeting of the crisis management team that cooperation is model. There are problems. Of course, we try to solve them. I'm glad that the local government is also talking to us, they want to work with the government. I spoke with President Zdanowska yesterday, I was in Łódź and in various other places in Poland. Of course, incidents happen. It's not always a human factor that allows you to get everything together at one point perfectly, but ladies and gentlemen, this wave... Within 10 days, 1 million people reached Poland. I have already said this today: in 2015-2016 1 million people have reached the European Union as a whole in 2 years. We have been talking about a major crisis when it comes to migration in Europe. Today we have so many people in Poland within 10 days. Thank you to all those who are involved in this assistance. Thank you to all those who have put forward constructive ideas, thank you to all NGOs, thank you to volunteers, to all Poles who have accepted under the roof of refugees. There was a question about coach transport. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been doing this since the first hour. 1300 buses of the State Fire Department, Police and private enterprises are at the disposal of the voivodships. This transport is - from the border to the cities to which we transport these people. I will tell you more: today, no later than tomorrow, also the Polish City Association will be able to access the voivodeship base so that we can improve the transport to the destinations to which these people are going to reach thanks to the relations of one local government with another local government. [[The stakes?]] I think these are the most important issues that have been raised here. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this constructive cooperation, and those who are deaf to some arguments will probably not convince us, but we will do our job all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u448	Thank you very much. You've used up your government buddies' time, but we're gonna give them a little more time. Undersecretary of State of the Barbara Socha family. Minister, I'm gonna have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u449	Yeah, I'm short. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm very short. There was a question about the health contributions of people who will register as unemployed persons. They will be covered by the Labour Fund and other health contributions, as for other citizens, from the state budget. Helping children, psychological help - of course. We have conducted such consultations with experts. In the first place, we need the help of psychologists so-called. intervention. And that's what's happening, because there's a crisis intervention center in every county, and that's what we organize in cooperation with the regional coordinators. School - absolutely, I agree. The sooner, the better, hence the efforts of the Ministry of Education to launch the so-called. preparatory courses, possibility to save children to school. We've been very liberal about it, we've changed it. We have excluded Ukrainians from the provisions of our laws on foster care and childcare so that all these standards do not apply, so that local governments can create e.g. Children's clubs and so-called institution. daily carers also with the participation of those Ukrainians, those moms who come to us. We're working on these procedures. Today I had a teleconference with the PCPRs, everyone in Poland. We pay great attention to the safety of children, their registration, the documentation of their arrival, especially when it comes to children from orphanages. Tonight was a meeting... There is a vice-president of the European Commission, Mrs Dubravka suica, with whom I am going to Stalowa Wola tomorrow. There's a respite and coordination hub for orphanage kids. She is also coming to Poland today - I hope that she will arrive safely - Ukrainian Deputy Minister Mrs Olga Rewuk. He's coming from Kiev today. We're gonna be working together tomorrow at Stalowa Wola on common procedures, because that's the most important thing. Ladies and gentlemen! On the charges that the government isn't doing anything... I dedicate this statement to our children and ask our children how we do nothing We don't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Minister, what about the stakes? The rate of PLN 40.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u450	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: It'll be regulated by a regulation. It is addressed to all Poles who today took Ukrainians under their roof. The rate will be regulated in the Regulation. [[...have some local governments signed?]] Okay, thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about system solutions for receiving children from Ukraine. I mentioned that these system solutions have been in place for many years. Foreigners, children of foreigners have the right to education in Poland. Those who know the Polish language can be accepted at the appropriate level to the appropriate class according to the number of completed classes of branches in the Ukrainian educational system. Those who do not speak Polish should go to the preparatory departments. There they will have additional Polish language lessons. We predict that this will be a minimum of 6 hours plus additional classes from other subjects to compensate for the programme differences between the Ukrainian system and the Polish system. In addition, they have the right, both in one case and in the other case, to additional learning of Polish language and to compensatory classes of individual subjects. These students in the preparatory departments will have an additional importance to the pupils who are studying in the primary branches. Additional teaching of Polish language is also an additional weight with subsidies. We anticipate additional resources in the provision of education subsidies. Psychological assistance - the school principal is obliged to provide such assistance to any student who applies to the school is enrolled in that school. He writes a parent to school, and if he doesn't have a parent, he's a temporary guardian so there's no problems. In the regulation we accept the solution that this may be a declaration, it does not have to be documents that certify years of learning. Support for local authorities is also flexibility in creating preparatory branches. These can be inter-school, inter-school, so other buildings that are not used today can also be used for educational purposes. Children can also be transferred to other municipalities where there are unused school buildings, where there are few children. These flexible solutions are also the possibility of hiring (the bell) teachers over 1.5 jobs, as well as returning, combining with compensation. You can also hire teachers from Ukraine, especially as so-called. helping a teacher in the preparatory departments... [[What about the jobs?]] ...which will facilitate language contact between the Polish teacher and the Ukrainian student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u452	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. [[What about eighth graders?]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: Just one last explanation. 8th grade, Matura - they give the same exam as Polish students. The facilitation will be that the commands will be translated into Ukrainian and will be adjusted for a slightly longer time to respond. Mr Waldemar Kraska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm just gonna concentrate on one thing, 'cause she came up with a few questions. It is about support for medical students from Ukraine who have now reached our country. We have prepared such support for universities, which are supervised by the Minister of Health. It will include, let me say very briefly: funds for the payment of scholarships to Ukrainian citizens who will continue to study at medical universities, in the amount of PLN 1500 per month from March to September 2022; funds to cover preparatory costs of EUR 1 000. PLN per month per participant; funding to cover training costs of 18 000. for a semester per participant, from March to September 2022 For today we have registered and willing to continue studying in medical universities, 166 students with Ukrainian citizenship and 428 students with Polish citizenship. Medical education institutions have declared a total of 2000 places in the medical field and 220 places in the medical and dental fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u454	Thank you very much. As the last representative of the government, Minister of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the housing questions. There was a question about the tax exemption, the free lending to the refugees of the premises. Yes, with this bill, we introduce a tax exemption on donations also in this regard. The renovations of municipal wastelands are financed from the state budget, 80% of the Dollar Fund can receive local authorities for the renovation of the wasteland, and we will sustain and continue this. We encourage you to use this local government. The question was whether Ukrainians could be accommodated in a non-residential premises. Of course, construction regulations do not prohibit temporary accommodation of refugees, but we must pay attention to the basic conditions: electricity, heat, water supply; so that these premises are really suitable for decent housing, so that there is fire safety, hygiene and safety of use. There is a communication on this issue on the Main Building Authority's website, and I encourage you to read it. There was a question about the municipal premises for the Ukrainians. What rules? The same as for Poles. You can use the municipal apartments, but you have to line up in the waiting queue. I hope that the local governments will be shortening the queue all the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, let us vote in favour of this bill, the specialist, with the help of the Ukrainians. This is what Poles expect of us, solidarity, calm and rational action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u456	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of current information is mostly covered by the draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. This law constitutes a specific regulation providing an ad hoc legal basis for the legal residence of Ukrainian citizens who, as a result of their war activities, were forced to leave their country of origin. The draft law lays down the rules for granting social assistance to Ukrainian citizens in respect of accommodation, providing full-day meals, ensuring transport to accommodations and financing public transport to accommodations. The law introduces a solution that allows access to the Polish labour market for Ukrainian citizens and provides for the taking up and pursuit of business activities. But the most urgent issue is the rapid movement of refugees from Ukraine gathered at border crossing points, among others. in Medyce, Korczowa and Budomierz, to the nearest towns to accommodate them at once. Municipal and district governments are willing to take up this task, but they expect financial support from the state budget for this purpose. Is the government considering the possibility of allocating funds from the special-purpose reserve for this purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u458	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws (print No 2024). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u459	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The severity of sanctions is as important as their inevitability. We have seen this in recent years many times when we have reformed elements of criminal law such as alimony. In this case, we have also heard that the severity of the punishment does not matter. Well, it's 240%. The collection of alimony has increased thanks to the changes we have made. VAT mafia, 25 years for VAT - this has almost become a symbol of this harsh fight against criminals who previously mocked the state. Here too, success is easily noticeable. Following this lead, I would like to draw attention to the latest statistics. After 1 January this year. by 55% the number of speed crossings in the built-up area decreased by more than 50 km/h. The number of offences caused by drivers dropped by 29%. These statistics show that strict criminal law is an effective law. The penalty should be preventive and dissuasive. We are therefore pleased to present the government's draft amendment to the Penal Code. The changes are as follows. First, we eliminate the genre sentence of 25 years of imprisonment, which is artificial, does not exist in other countries, and, moreover, leads to unfair sentences. A judgment, when dealing with several accomplices, may be too harsh on one of them, if we are 10 years old, between 15 and 25 years old, and on others it may be too mild, which happens most often. We extend the sentence of imprisonment from 15 to 30 years. This makes sanctions more flexible and will ensure greater justice in the judgment. Then we declare war on sex offenders. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, for basic rape more than 50% Sexual offenders receive up to 2 years of imprisonment. What's the bottom line? Just two years. 51.3%, to be exact. all convicted of an act of art. 197 § 1 receives punishment within the lower limits of the sentence. These statistics are even more terrifying if we look at those who hurt the most vulnerable and innocent, children. According to statistics, convicted of rape in a qualified manner to the detriment of a minor up to the age of 15, incest or collective, for punishment up to 5 years - these are so-called. short-term penalties - we have up to 63%. After the changes, such penalties cannot be imposed for the rape of a minor under the age of 15, because the lower borders will be from the age of 5. Another change in sex offenders is to exclude the limitation of criminal offences with particular cruelty and against a minor under 15 years of age. Then we extend the limitation period of other crimes against sexual freedom. We increase sanctions for the most serious crimes against sexual freedom and introduce new types of rape. The current code does not distinguish between basic rape and death or serious injury. Punishment is the same for all today, from 2 to 12 years, which is clearly unfair. Therefore, special, extremely brutal and cruel rapes, the consequences of which are severe health damage, death, should be treated more severely. And it will be. The lower limit of penalties in such cases will start from 5 years in the event of injury and from 8 to 30 years in the case of rape resulting in death. In addition, we are introducing a new form of sexual recidivism. Already for the second crime against sexual freedom (the bell) will be a mandatory increase in the lower threat by half. We also declare war on drunk drivers. At the moment, unfortunately, drunk drivers, as statistics show, most often contribute to fatal accidents. We confiscate vehicles in cases where there is more than 1.5 of alcohol in the blood. Once again, if someone gets behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol, there will be no way to apply the penalty of liberty. In addition, the vehicle will be confiscated for those who caused the accident in an intoxicated state already in the basic mode, i.e. at 0,5. In addition, we are tightening sanctions for fatal accidents and accidents with severe injury - for 5 years, respectively, and for 3 years up. Another category of crime is crimes against life and health. And here, the most serious crimes committed in organized criminal groups, committed in redecises, will also be met with severe treatment. Unfortunately, at the moment, 44% of those sentenced to imprisonment get suspended, 40% released before the deadline in recent years returns to committing crimes once again. That is why it is important to declare war on the redecided, the multi-decided, and we do so. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a very important group of crimes against property interests, against the economy. I started with VAT. Looks like these sanctions are working. Therefore, I would like to point out that accepting a bribe of more than PLN 1 million will be punished more severely than is currently the case. Large scale fraud will also face more severe punishment. At the moment, for corruption involving more than 200,000 people. The penalty is the same as for the corruption of multimillion-dollar sizes, and after all, only in Warsaw's reprivatization mob one of the bribes amounted to about PLN 50 million, the highest in history. Therefore, the penalty for corruption over PLN 1 million will be between 3 years and 20 years. Similarly with the frauds of Amber Gold - the damage of 700 million PLN, GetBack - 3 billion PLN. Here, too, fraud crimes above PLN 5 million will be a crime, over PLN 10 million will be punished from the years 5 to 30 years. Now for fraud for a little over 200,000. PLN is the same punishment as for fraud for the amount of PLN 10 million. These are the changes we're proposing. I stress once again: severe punishment has a deterrent effect and ensures that everyone lives safely. I think that's the goal. All of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u460	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Piotr Sak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting on behalf of my ruler, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the privilege and honor of presenting our position. The changes presented in their essence bring a profound reform of criminal law. A number of new institutions, tools and instruments are introduced that strengthen the legal response to the undesirable phenomenon that is undoubtedly prohibited, but also increase the level and extent of protection of a number of legal goods, in particular life, health and sexual freedom. Many of the institutions have been modified, under a lift, a number of solutions have been presented, which so far have been demands of de lege ferenda of theoreticians and practitioners of law, and today in this project are materializing. Adaptation measures shall also be taken, for example in relation to compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. on the application of the combined penalty, i.e. the judgment of the Constitutional Court of June 2019, P 20/17. Ladies and gentlemen! The villain must be aware that if he deviates from his right life and turns to the path of crime, evil, he will be faced with deserved retribution, severe punishment. Criminals cannot be refused, except, of course, those who commit crimes of passion, a cold, cold calculation. And here after this calculation, if you evaluate all the changes, committing a crime will not just be worth it. The proposed changes should be appreciated. And here two fundamental, ore-mental goals are pursued: above all, the protection of legal goods, but also zero indulgence and tolerance for those who commit these acts with high levels of guilt, as well as the criminality of the act. New, stricter sanctions, severe penalties are supposed to be disincentives and deterrents to potential perpetrators. They must in the prologue of their intentions, in this embryo realize that it will not be profitable for them to abandon their criminal plans at this preliminary stage. In order to influence this decision-making process of potential perpetrators, this voluntary sphere will be undertaken a whole range, a whole cascade of actions, sharpenings on many levels. The severity of sanctions will increase, the boundaries of the statutory threat will be extended. Some of the crimes will be transformed into crimes. A new number of eligible types with modal operations are introduced. Finally, modified social harm quantifiers are introduced. The statute of limitations on criminality shall be excluded, in particular against the background of sexual assault offences against minors. This is all intended to serve as a deterrent. With special solutions - this is already my subjective review as a multi-annual practice in courtrooms - I would like to distinguish several institutions or new solutions. First of all, the penalisation of the criminal preparation is being introduced. Indeed, there has been an axiological gap in this area, which has never been completed for so many years since the beginning of the Penal Code since 1997. It's finally gonna happen. The statute of limitations on homicide increases from 30 to 40 years. The behaviour associated with alcohol consumption is promoted after the act of driving e.g. under the influence of alcohol or causing an accident, because so far there was a gap that many people took self-defense, drank alcohol after doing so to disrupt the ability to determine material truth. So this forgery, this act, taking defensive action, is now going to be legalized, and it's going to be regarded as an aggravating circumstance. As the Minister said here, there will also be car loss or the equivalent of a car in the event of alcohol driving. Finally, criminal sanctions are imposed for large-scale bribery. If the briber takes over PLN 1 million of bribes, he will be punished for 3 to 20 years (the bell), so it should also cause numerous reflections. Finally, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u462	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u463	...in conclusion, I would like to point out one more thing, to the article. 244, i.e. issues related to the extension of liability for evasion of decisions, above all...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u464	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u465	...in criminal law, which means here it will stimulate the convicted to pay the victims as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it should be pointed out that all these objectives are very desirable and should be maintained in the course of legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u466	You're welcome. Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u467	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It all sounds great when you listen to this calculation, in which cases crimes committed will increase the penalty. Here the brave sheriff comes out and fights against the criminal world, which has so far gone unpunished or whose sanctions have been ineffective. If we had such a picture of our reality, I can see it in black. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that a well-functioning and effective justice system is widely fancied. The severity of the penalties and their scope are only one of its elements. However, what we see in your business - this is the main element - is the repressiveness of the justice system in Poland, which becomes something that comes first. It's such a prosecutorial approach to reality. It is not surprising, however, if the Minister of Justice is a prosecutor and, after all, the sentence is to be met - and the Minister has also mentioned this - many other functions. I have read very carefully the extremely comprehensive justification and I can honestly say that the person writing this justification has actually done a gigantic job until: the comments I have made and the conclusions I have reached. Who submitted these comments and conclusions during the preparatory process for this legislation? They were reported by district courts, appeals courts, Supreme Court, National Council of Legal Counsels, the Jury Association of Justitia and other entities that have a great deal of experience in matters relating to justice. No comment - and this is interesting - has not been given a positive view of any of the comments submitted, has not been taken into account. That makes you think. Why? Why does the applicant disagree with the question of a change in the abolition of an spontaneous sentence of 20 years as an extraordinary sentence and the introduction of 30 years as an upper limit of the sentence? Why 30 years? Why is this debate not included in this debate? What is the purpose of this change that destroys a well-established system of punishment? Of course, I agree that modifications are necessary in some cases, such as offences against sexual freedom, especially minors. But you write in the explanatory memorandum that 90% whether more than 90% of the scope of this amendment is to increase the dimension of the penalty, i.e. the first plan is repressive. Against what? What crimes, committed against what good, are to be punished higher? These are those committed against fundamental good, such as human health and life, such as freedom, sexual freedom or property. Perhaps I would approach this differently if I could see some consistency and honesty in this approach, but on the one hand, the State proposes to increase the penalty for people who commit crimes against the health of citizens, and on the other hand, it is not against those who have acted against the health and life of citizens during the pandemic. So far, we have not heard any positive reaction to the action against them. Where is the issue of fraud related to the purchase of ventilators, masks and other high-value crimes (Applause), up to today's unreturned Treasury? You are talking about the need to increase the penalty because this will make it more effective. On the other hand, the articles of the Special Law on Aid for Refugees from Ukraine and members of their families, on which a debate (the Bell) is taking place, are not placed on this balance. This cannot be reconciled, which is why, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am filing a motion for the Marshal to reject a government bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u468	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u469	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the government draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws contained in print No 2024. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a project which is intended to thoroughly reform k.k. The most important aim is to tighten the penalties for the most important crimes, especially those that threaten life and sexual freedom and that involve taking bribes. However, there is also a fundamental change in the way the court is imposing the most severe penalties. In addition, the resort assumes the loss of cars of drunk drivers. The head of the Ministry himself summed up the philosophy that was followed in the drafting of proposals for new rules as ending with rehabilitation in the case of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, stressing that penalties must be inevitable, but also harsh. I quote: The most dangerous bandits must be isolated from society. This is where you have to show the iron hand. Exactly. In fact, the most important change in this submission is the change at its basis, the change in philosophy. Because it is no longer the principle of inevitability of punishment, which we have followed for the past 30 years, not inevitability, and the severity of punishment is to act as a deterrent to crime. The question is: Is the current so-called. The reform of the Penal Code is a step, or actually a series of steps in the right direction? In order to be able to evaluate this, maybe we should look at some of the solutions. And so: two of the most important and far-reaching changes are first the elimination of a separate sentence of 25 years imprisonment, which currently fills the gap between imprisonment and life imprisonment. Upon the entry into force of this change, the courts will be able to punish up to 30 years of imprisonment for the most serious crimes. In this case, making the penalty more flexible seems to be a relatively good solution, giving judges freedom in terms of high prison sentences. However, the second, much more controversial solution is the punishment of absolute life. The assumption is simple: there are criminals who should never leave the prison walls. We're talking about the worst type of non-reformable criminals who don't promote re-integration into society. Today, such people go to a special center based on the so-called. The law on beasts, which, in practice, we know, is an additional punishment after punishment and often meets criticism, including human rights defenders. An absolute life sentence generates a big, serious problem. The convicted person lives, but is aware of the lack of a chance to return to freedom. There's no deeper motivation to behave properly, to rehabilitate. But as we already know, that is not the idea behind these changes. Change puts a strong emphasis on much more severe punishment of sex offenders. And that's exactly the direction to agree with. It's the right direction, in the right direction. The proposal also provides for the exclusion of criminal penalties for the offence of child rape or rape with particular cruelty. [[You're against it, too?]] It's also right, and it's also often a change that we're asking for. Among the proposed changes are some changes that are hard to disagree with. Their direction seems right, but... [[But you're against it.]] We have doubts about the solution to the court's guidance on the application of the mitigating and aggravating circumstances when imposing a penalty. So, on the one hand, we have to make the judge's decision more flexible and, on the other hand, to limit it. As I said, with the direction of some of these solutions it is difficult to disagree, especially those concerning crimes against life, health and sexual freedom. However, the direction leading to a change in the philosophy of punishment - their highly repressive nature - raises great doubts. Given the above and recognising that some of the changes are expected and needed, I would like to say that, however, further (the Bell) work on this project is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u470	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u471	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, allow me to present my position on the draft amendments to the Penal Code and some other laws contained in print No 2024. Minister! I'm gonna start by quoting a classic, actually a classic. For the last 7 years, Poles and Poles have been waiting for the effects of the announced changes in the judiciary, in the justice system. How many times have we met in a similar group in this room, Minister? How many times have you, your colleagues from Solidarna Polska with Zbigniew Ziobro, at the head of this lecturer, said how all the bad guys are not going to go down a criminal path now, how will Poland become a safe country? There were these projects, Minister, very, very many. We all counted almost 80 of them together, of which, I think 20 was based on this idea of what today's project, i.e. the idea of maximum severity of punishment. Today there is no problem with our common view that Poland must become a more secure country. [[It's happening.]] But I don't know, Minister, because I'm in law school at the law and administration department of the university. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań... [[Great college.]] ...I learned that the inevitability of punishment is above all a factor that deters you from entering a criminal path. [[Applause]] [[Old fairy tales.]] Not much, my experience in college, when I dated and talked to people who got on a criminal path, confirmed it. If X is going to commit a criminal act, and it's also a very beastly one, then he, you know, isn't going to calculate whether the potential punishment for that act is 20 or 25 years. No. His logic is, in most cases, whether he gets caught or not. Unfortunately, for the last seven years, this is not the best thing about the inevitability of punishment. And a lot, so to speak, factors are a derivative of your work. Allow me to quote some of the data that I believe is affecting this inevitability of the penalty. It's a short comparison. 2014 and 2019. This statistic is about prosecutorial proceedings. As far as long-term cases are concerned, an increase of 270%. It's not a mistake - 270%. For cases over 6 months, 390%. In the case of the elderly, so do I. Following the entry into force of the new Law on the Prosecutor's Office in 2016, there was a systemic decline in the efficiency of prosecutorial preparatory proceedings. Since then, there have been four times as many long investigations as before. This is, Minister, this element that also affects the inevitability of punishment. The efficiency of the prosecution's system is exactly the case. It's dramatic. In 2020, the preparatory proceedings, which lasted more than 3 months to 6 months, were 27 882. Combining this with earlier years - they were very, very long-lasting. This is undoubtedly the charge that I wanted to make, which shows a gap between the objective we agree on and the consequences and means of reaching it. So that it is not that there is only criticism of this project - I positively perceive it (the bell), which has been presented... One sentence, Marshal. ...what was presented when it came to the planning of the crime. This is, I think, a solution that is actually needed. Also in terms of extending the limitation period for certain offences - we also receive positive responses.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u472	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u473	The rest is for groundwork as part of further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u474	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u475	First of all, such a general remark that once again we focus on serious media crimes, and we completely ignore the problem of minor crime, which is a statistically much bigger problem. E.g. We have such a completely idiotic recipe saying that stealing is only a misdemeanor if it concerns an object with a value below 500 PLN at the moment. I understand the idea that we're treating as a misdemeanor some kind of real petty theft, a candy bar at the store, or that somebody's gonna cheer up a pen from the post office. But then the limit should be, I don't know, 10, 20, 50 PLN, not 500 PLN. Five hundred is a serious loss. I do not understand such understanding and constant lifting of this border. I mean, I understand why. The point is that the police reserve the privilege of treating... actually ignoring such crimes, such offences, such criminal offences that have a different qualification. Such actions are systematically pissed off and actually completely unenforced. That's the problem. Because as we teach people that petty theft is practically impunity in Poland, then we have people who educate in their profession and commit more and more serious crimes. As for the details - when it comes to changes in the age of a criminal, they are generally going in the right direction, but too shy. I really don't understand all the strings. Why would a 15-year-old who committed a serious crime not be fully responsible for his actions? At school, he's being told to interpret medieval poetry, to understand the chemical bonds of phospholipids, and at the same time, we don't think he understands that killing isn't allowed or stolen? If we want young people to be responsible, that's how we treat them. Further, the prohibition on taking up posts should, in my opinion, apply only to public institutions. If anyone wants to hire an ex-criminal as a babysitter, that's his business. I don't understand. We can judge this as stupid, but let's not regulate everything again. Especially since it is a mandatory punishment in these regulations. I mean, it's not the court that decides, it's the rule that forces us to apply, and it's very widely outlined. Any offence against the health of a minor may result, for example. prohibit the pursuit of the profession of doctor. We can easily imagine a situation when the doctor's father will blow the kid for doing something really bad and stupid, e.g. He beat someone, he stole, he destroyed property - he'll be found guilty of such a crime and he'll lose his profession forever from the vending machine. Even if someone thinks that in any situation the physical discipline of minors is unacceptable, these circumstances are certainly disproportionate to punishment. At the same time, such a mandatory ban on sexual abuse will simply make no sense in many situations of life. The purpose of such a prohibition should be decided by the court. It's unreasonable to write it down rigidly. After all, one can imagine a situation once again, when. The victim forgives the perpetrator and does not want such a ban (the bell) or e.g. The victim dies, and that ban doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u476	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u477	What does the court have to say in that case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u478	Thank you very much. Now Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u479	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Poland is a safe country. According to Eurostat, the number of murders, assaults, rapes or thefts is falling. Next to Croatia and Lithuania, we are on the podium of the safest countries of the European Union. At the same time, the whole of Europe is pointing at us through the ongoing disaster, which Minister Ziobro - you too, Minister - gave to the Polish justice system. We pay the penalty for avoiding the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union because we pretend that we do not have to comply with those judgments. The rule strikes us: money for the rule of law, because we are not law-abiding. In Poland, judges who are not judges are called in mass. There is an House in the Supreme Court, which only pretends to be a court, and the real judges take their cases when the Minister doesn't like a ruling. Power listens to opposition politicians, but for the sake of the state, no one will investigate. [[Evidence.]] Ideas such as judicial independence or the adversariality of criminal proceedings will soon be known mainly from lectures in the history of law. If it's not going, it's not going. Probably from here another brilliant idea of the Minister, so-called. reform of the Criminal Code. Contrary to science, since Montescius and Beccaria, it has been known that the harshness of punishment does not discourage anyone from committing a crime. If that were the case, hanging or smoking at the stake would cause crime to fall. Contrary to rational criminal policy, with inventions in the style of guidance for judges or ruthless life imprisonment, and above all with a significant tightening of penalties and without even touching instruments that really reduce crime: rehabilitation, prevention, modern penitentiary system. Our problem is internal relations, said President Jarosław Kaczyński, concerned about the state of the Polish justice system. I'd add crazy ideas to that list, like this terrible bill. We do not apply for the rejection of the project at first reading simply because the custom among dozens of absurd solutions is several, over which it is worth discussing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u480	Thank you. Mrs Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u481	High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party on the government draft law amending the law - Penal Code. Our greatest concern is the fact that all the activities of the Ministry of Justice, which are intended to reduce crime in Poland, are reduced to increasing penalties in codes. We already have one of the harshest and most oppressive criminal systems in Europe. Everyone except Minister Ziobra knows that the inevitability of the punishment, not its majesty, is a distraction from the crime. This is confirmed by a 200-year-old record of criminology. It's just a criminal believes he won't be caught and punished. If he was sure of his punishment, he probably wouldn't have committed it. According to the police in Poland, about 74% are detected. Crimes, which means that every fourth criminal gets away with breaking the law. That's the real problem. Under the PiS regime, changes in criminal law are not only being made under the influence of specific events, which are being addressed by one of the changes in the Penal Code that have been examined today. In 2021, 14-year-old Casper brutally murdered 13-year-old Patricia, who was pregnant with him. In connection with this case, the Ministry of Justice has already announced a change of law, and this is the change that we are now looking at. Namely in the article. 10 The Penal Code is added § 2a is replaced by the following: Minors who, at the age of 14, and before the age of 15, are allowed to take the prohibited act referred to in Article. 148 § 2 or 3 - just killings - can follow the rules set out in this code, and so can any adult. We believe that more attention and resources should be given to rehabilitation, that the conditions in prisons should be improved and not just tightened up. The extension of penalties for certain offences in the Criminal Code to children, because a 14-year-old is a child, is not a solution. If a child commits a crime, it's usually his parents' fault and his bad upbringing. Minister Ziobro opposes taking children away from pathological families, and sometimes is It's absolutely necessary. The government's justification for stretching out penalties for some juvenile offences is the lack of adequate rehabilitation in so-called. Correctional homes. But it's worse in prison. Will a 14-year-old in prison really be rehabilitated or will he become a victim of fellow prisoners? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u482	Thank you. Members joined the questions. There are 17 people. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. As the first Mrs Senyshin to ask a question. [[Right on me?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u483	High Izbo! A while ago, they were talking about tightening penalties for drunk drivers, because they are reported to cause the most accidents. That is, of course, not true. In 2020 drunk drivers or drunk dogs caused 11% all cases where the death rate was 13% the total of the killed and 10% all wounded were the result of accidents involving people in an intoxicated state. That means 90%. accidents caused sober drivers and pedestrians. What does the Ministry plan to do to reduce the number of accidents caused by sober road users? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u484	Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to ask whether these regulations require the driver's driver's driver's licence to be removed from the driver's licence, and I would like to ask for such clear information. But the controversy in my opinion is the record of car confiscation for drunk driving, which can cause many practical problems. What if the car that caught the unsub didn't belong to him? Art. 44 does not regulate and does not clearly state what will happen to the vehicle when the perpetrator is his co-owner who is entered in the registration document or remains in the property community. Such constructed regulations may strike at families of drivers who do not necessarily blame them for their mischief. I also have a question about the valuation of the car in the event of damage to it as a result of the accident. Does the equivalent of the vehicle relate to the condition before the accident on the day of the accident or after the accident in the damaged state? This should be very clearly (the bell) regulated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u486	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Marcin Warchoł. Minister, we studied at one university, we studied the same thing in the same department. What's more, we defended our PhDs at the same university. We lived in the same dorm, even lived in the same room for several years... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...but we have learned very different lessons from our education. I wanted to ask what the real motivation of this bill is. It's obvious that there's no concern for state security. You can see that not concern for the safety of Poles and Poles, but a populist desire to award the Sheriff's Order to Mr. Zbigniew Ziebra, because that's exactly what this is all about. Every normal democratic country bets on a sensible criminal policy, which is mainly not about repressiveism, but on rehabilitation, on repulsion. All civilised criminal policies are based on the inevitability of punishment and the absolute pursuit. What about us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're offering giant punishments just so you can climb the Seym's platform and say you're a sheriff. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u488	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many countries of the European Union, there is a preventive measure in the form of vehicle failure - what is probably a proven form of driving away drivers from driving in an intoxicated state. However, changes to the rules on this issue require a broader look at the proposed changes and costs. The average price of storage of the vehicle in the safety deposit box is in the range of PLN 1500. Someone's got to pay that price by the time they're convicted. In addition, there is the issue of car insurance, which according to Polish regulations must be paid by the owner. What happens when the defendant wins the case and demands compensation? Such trials take months, sometimes even years before our courts. What about cars of less value, whose maintenance in the parking lot will exceed their value? Who will pay for the OC during the (Bingle) storage of the car in the safety car park? How does the government intend to deal with such problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u490	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why in Poland, through laws, whose designer is the government party, is led to segregation on unprivileged and privileged citizens, as in the Animal Farm ¿? Taking over the bill will lead to greater criminal liability, a drastic increase in the qualifications of many acts, instead of focusing on the inevitability of execution. Now I'm going to talk about the privileged group. Officials, representatives of the apparatus in accordance with the amendments made to the special scheme for assistance to refugees from Ukraine will not be subject to criminal liability. That is, on the one hand, the criminalisation of citizens and on the other hand, the impunity of the cons of power. Question: "Why does a party called law and justice affirm lawlessness and injustice towards citizens?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u492	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is very controversial for many reasons. Firstly, such a drastic change of law should be consulted. I would, for example. She wanted to know how the Ombudsman felt about these changes. This project is overly repressive, and making such changes - 100% greater penalties than before - is irresponsible and without any consultation. Finally, it is absolutely inconsistent with government policy. At this meeting, you are still introducing civil impunity, on the one hand, and here you want to put ordinary people in prison for decades and sentence them to life. And finally there were such flowers that in the article. 156 of the Penal Code according to the change of the doctor who will make voluntary infertility may be (the bell) sentenced to 20 years, because this article is interpreted as meaning that sterilization is illegal, which is, of course, nonsense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u494	Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amount and type of punishment are important elements of reducing the number of crimes, but not enough. The most important thing is not so much the amount of punishment as its inevitability, which is a short time between committing an act, apprehending the perpetrator and executing a final sentence. This shows the potential perpetrator that it is not worth committing a crime, because soon punishment will be imposed. Appropriate rehabilitation, including those with intellectual or mental disabilities, is also important, and unfortunately this is not good. This is what we should focus on, not on the nicely populist-sounding next: we will increase the penalties for various crimes. What, then, is the Ministry going to do for effective rehabilitation, as well as for the efficiency of the procedure, to make this a fact and not a constantly announced subject? We have an area of life where the DA's office doesn't work properly, the perpetrators commit all kinds of prohibited acts, and they're not being punished for that. Finally, we need efficiency, because it will be (the bell) an effective way to fight crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u496	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me use this time just to draw attention to one more thing. There was talk of penalties, there was talk of their inevitability, there was talk of adequacy. In many things here I agree with Dobromir Sosnierze that there is a little lack of logic. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in a certain area these penalties will still be insufficient in my view. Well, we're still talking about paedophiles' punishments, killers' punishments, criminals' punishments. Perhaps in the context of what is happening behind our eastern border, in the context that, as we see, there is no end to history, there is no end to threats, maybe it is time to go back to talking about the death penalty? Your party also advocated it, entered the Sejm, won elections just as well. with this request. We note that maybe it's time to get back to talking about (The bell) The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to add reservations to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u498	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise one point concerning those who are caught and have more than 1.5 promiles of alcohol in their blood or, in the case of recidivists and road traffic accident perpetrators, will experience a compulsory asset loss, cars, and in the case of drunk drivers who did not cause the accident, the court will be able to, but will also not have to, waive confiscation. Let me put it this way: I agree that punishment should be severe and also inevitable. But there are questions: What if the car, the car in which the perpetrator was caught, is not his? What if the car has co-owners? How can it be fair to punish other people who often live in the province, in the countryside, in a small city, where this car is often the main means of transport, if the family uses it? I would very much ask you to clarify how you want to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u500	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u501	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions for you. First of all, accepting a bribe of over PLN 1 million will be whether or not to be treated as a crime - between 3 and 20 years imprisonment. Meanwhile, Minister, corruption records show that as far as this incident is concerned, this area is falling in the number of such crimes. In the years 2015-2028 - 8 thousand, 5 years earlier it was 10,000. cases found, so the trend is that the number of events is decreasing. As far as I remember, Minister, rape is sanctioned to a maximum of 12 years today. The question, Minister, is this a good proportion, that such an attack on a person, on health, on life - up to 12 years, while 1 million PLN - up to 20 years. I have a request that the Minister give details (the bell) about this fight against the VAT mafia, which means he tells us how much we will recover as a result of final decisions, how many criminals have been convicted.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u502	Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u503	Because we haven't heard about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u504	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On this occasion, I will ask for the rights of child molesters, the approach to children during the break-up of the family, the divorce. They don't recognize prosecutors, judges don't recognize any evidence, suspicions of harassment, even if it's the opinions of therapists, psychologists, child sexologists, and lawyers say, "Give the baby to the parent, then you'll see if it's molested or if it happens." So at the moment, children are being combated by adults during a very large number of divorces, in the absence of justice. I agree with the high penalty proposed in the current change, and I agree that it should be appalling, but there is still a question of the implementation of this penalty (the Bell), granting it here. I'm asking for help because I have a big problem with protecting children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u506	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a general rule, it could be accepted that increasing the level of penalties in certain types of offences, among others. sexual and, if this is the case for minors, it is the right course, but it seems that much more important, however, is the issue of the inevitability of the penalty, the rapid execution of the penalty and then the rehabilitation of the criminal. It seems that much more important today is the issue of depoliticisation of justice, the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, the restoration of the proper functions of the Judicial Chamber. These are the things that Poles are waiting for, for new judicial posts, for judges who will have no doubt about their status, whether they can rule or not. These changes are expected by Poles and these changes also we expect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u508	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u509	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Undoubtedly, the penalty, on the one hand, is to secure all those who may possibly be victims of a crime and on the other hand should be appropriate to the situation of the victim of a crime that has already happened. It seems to me that compensation, compensation, or any other form of punishment that the victim has should also be part of the dimension of this punishment. It seems (the bell) that there might be a reduction in the possibility of compensation or compensation. I'd like to draw your attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u510	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u511	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Justice guarantees not only the amount of punishment but, above all, its inevitability. On the other hand, you stubbornly increase the sentence from 25 years to 30 years and introduce an absolute life sentence. Meanwhile, you smuggle impunity + into the refugee aid bill yourself to avoid consequences for envelope elections or left ventilators. Is that supposed to be law and justice? No, this is pure hypocrisy. Let's respect the victims of crime. The services must not underestimate their dramatic testimony. Unfortunately, due to this failure to care, we still have an undervalued number of crimes, among others. sexually. We'd better control traffic and sell alcohol, prevent addiction, and crime will fall. Finish the judicial deformity. We need real reform, independence and speed up the work of the courts. The less time you wait for a sentence, the more criminals you will actually pay and serve your sentence. Let us act systematically so that the punishment actually is (the bell) inevitable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u512	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u513	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You're talking about the fight against crime, the ruthless pursuit of criminals, so let's see what it all looks like in practice, because it really doesn't look good if it's your case. The case concerning two towers - the famous envelope with a bribe, 50,000, reports the press, which was to be handed over later by Jarosław Kaczyński to a priest. Unfortunately, the case has not yet been resolved, and we remember the later visit of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński at the seat of the Ministry of Justice of Mr Ziobra. The ventilator scandal - it has not been explained, the state budget has lost several tens of millions. Mastic scandal - nothing was done about it. The KNF scandal - you spoke about big bribes, as the press reports, is a question of 40 million PLN. What are you doing right now? You're talking about the ruthless prosecution of criminals, and you really want to ensure impunity right now (The Bell) about the bill on aiding refugees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u514	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will use, persistently and nonetheless, the incentives addressed to the Minister to counter the prevention. A very specific situation concerning the municipality in Wielkopolska, I think, is to analyse: there is a man who terrorizes with various threats and dangerous tools the local community. One, the other conversation with the police there and it turns out that there is great powerlessness, because the case concerns a man who qualifies to isolate him for health reasons, but there are some doubts, because he has done nothing physically to anyone but direct threats. This is a situation that, I believe, would have to be regulated (the Bell) as this would prevent many, many tragedies, firstly and secondly, the number of minor crimes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u516	Thank you very much. The list of Members voted on has been exhausted. Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sleep. Janusz Kochanowski, ombudsman of civil rights, once stated that every time the cardinals speak of human dignity, they refer to the dignity of the perpetrator of crime, criminals, and not his victims. And that's what we could hear from that bleacher. I would like to thank Mr Wojciechowski, who is probably only 15. the Member drew attention to the dignity of the victim. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not pay your victim compensation, compensation, you will commit a crime. In this case we anticipate a new type of prohibited act, the dignity of the victim is as important as the dignity of the perpetrator. You feel sorry for the perpetrators here, for the criminals, and you forget those who have to live with trauma for the rest of their lives, often have to feel the consequences of the crime. I'm gonna start with the drunk driver issue. Mrs Senyszyn started with statistics: 1602 road accidents committed in 2021 by drunk drivers. The number of deaths, and the tragedy, last year: 212. Someone lost their father, their husband, their wife, their brother, their sister. Is it not enough for you, or is it not enough for you? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 1917 people are injured, someone will ride in a wheelchair for the rest of his life, someone will not be able to do his job for the rest of his life. Isn't that enough for you? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fatal accident in Kłodawa in 2019. The perpetrator in a state of drunkenness, 1.6 promila, without permission, deducts the deadly pedestrian, significantly exceeding speed - punishment of 3 years imprisonment. Such grossly unjust penalties will no longer be imposed because the perpetrator will be punished for 5 years in such a situation and will lose his car. Mrs Kozłowska asked about the mandatory vehicle accident. Allow me to refer to this comprehensively right now. One-and-a-half and a-a-half and a-a-half. One-and-a-half if he was driving. It's a.50 if it caused an accident. If the car is not owned by the perpetrator, it will be forfeited by its equivalent. How are we gonna figure it out? No need to process, no expensive expert opinions, no waiting, no longevity. There will be a special algorithm, which is today in the case of PCC tax. State authorities have data such as vehicle brand, year of this vehicle, capacity. That'll be enough to calculate this equivalent. Of course, my fellow Member, before the incident, not after the wreckage. And that's what happens in many other countries. The vehicle crash, I would like to draw your attention, is in Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Switzerland, Slovenia, Finland and Slovakia. Many countries are already dealing with this problem in such a way that they are taking away the tool of committing a crime. In its judgment of 30 October 2008, the Supreme Court pointed to the admissibility of such an instrument, stating, of course, that in this respect This is the will and decision of the legislator. Another point that was mentioned here is how to calculate OC in the parking lot. There's no need for OC in this car's parking lot. If the car is leased, it will be the subject of joint ownership, then it will be a loss of value. On the other hand, if the car is used for work, it is difficult for it to be lost the equivalent of a tira or a tir itself. What does an employer owe that his drunk driver drives his car while working? That's why there's gonna be raw tips, up to 100,000. zł, in such situations as not to punish third parties for caused events involving their employees. And who's gonna pay? Of course, the unsub will be paying. The perpetrator will charge the costs for this. Mrs Matysiak asked what would happen if the perpetrator was not the owner. I've already answered that. Mr Suchoń and the issue of bribes. The statistics at our disposal show that in the case of as many as 50% of convictions are punishable from 6 months to 1 year imprisonment, when the lower limit of the penalty for bribery is 2 years. So these are punishments that are extremely relaxed, and I'll remind you, from six months to one year. 50% Convicts. It is therefore necessary to increase this penalty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it will be, let me remind you, a penalty of 3 years for a bribe of over PLN 1 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u518	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Finally, this code is to be comprehensively addressed by the problem of too mild penalties. Now, Marshal. Excuse me, sir, the last number. Today, too, we are one of the harshest countries in Europe. That's not true. 23% of those convicted of murder in 2021 were sentenced to 8 years in prison, where the lower limit is 8 years. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister misunderstood my statement. I have a right to correct.]] We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 59 hours 18 min 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u519	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. We'll proceed with the quorum in a moment. I invite you all to the O.R. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proceeding to the quorum, and therefore I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the Sejm. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 452 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, print No 2078. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (print No 2078). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Sejm on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation The Sejm of the Republic of Poland appreciates the historical importance of the Act of Accession by the Republic of Poland to the Organization of the North Atlantic Treaty and to become a full member of the North Atlantic Alliance, together with the Czech Republic and the Republic of Hungary on 12 March 1999, commemorates this significant event on the eve of the 23rd anniversary of the decision. Poland, being painfully experienced by the tragic history of the 20th century, struggled with two criminal totalitarians: Nazi and Communist, took in political consensus an effort to permanent anchor in structures of the Western world based on the principles of democracy and self-determination of nations. This is expressed in the presence of the Republic of Poland in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, whose membership is considered a priority of Polish foreign policy. Appreciating the commitment and work of all those who have contributed to the effective achievement of this goal and the fulfilment of the dream of the Polish society of membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays their thanks and respect. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland supports the maintenance of the policy of the open doors of the North Atlantic Alliance, which contributed to the historic success of the Pact, expanding the area of freedom and security throughout Europe. We defend the right of every sovereign state to decide its future and to choose alliances, rejecting any attempt to create an impact zone in Europe. Security and peace guarantees provided by NATO, including in particular Article. 5 The North Atlantic Treaty, which provides for collective defence, 'including the use of armed forces to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area', is the cornerstone of global governance and the protection of democratic values. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, stressing the importance and importance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in order to ensure global security, cannot pass indifferently to the current events related to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation to the sovereign Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people. The Russian criminal regime, breaking all legal standards and international obligations, has attacked Ukraine and has caused an unprecedented political, economic and, above all, humanitarian crisis since World War II. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, wishing to celebrate the 23rd anniversary of Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, calls on the governments and parliaments of NATO Member States and associated countries to continue their solidarity efforts to ensure global security and decisively combat Russian aggression and violations of fundamental principles of international law, including humanitarian law. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls for the consistent strengthening of transatlantic ties and the continuation of solidarity in the fight against Russian aggression and providing comprehensive support to Ukraine, which can effectively contribute to the completion of armed activities. I ask that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. We have formal requests. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u520	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few moments, in a few dozen minutes, you will be voting to complete the agenda for the Cheap Fuel Confederation bill. We have a tragic situation. All you have to do is go to any gas station. We see what happens to prices. You've already taken the first step, copied a third of our bill and introduced a six-month VAT reduction, as if anything would change in August. Time for the remaining 2/3, time to cancel the issue fee, fuel fee. The taxes you introduced in your first term of office... [[Voice from the room: Why are you lying?]] Tonight, you can make it a little easier. Poles who go to gas stations. Giganticly rising prices, very fast-paced inflation... Thanks to this bill would be 90 gr less on gasoline, 70 gr less on oil. I appeal to you and to you to support the introduction of the Cheap Fuel Act under discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u521	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Deputy Marshal Terlecki believes that rudeness can replace the rules of the Sejm and the customary law, and he did not allow me to correct my statement, which Deputy Minister Warchoł did not understand. I'm doing it now because I have the right. Deputy Minister Warchoł insinuated that I was not worried about 327 victims who were killed by drunk drivers. That's a lie, of course. I'm very worried about every victim, which is why I'm mostly worried about 2164 fatal accidents involving sober drivers (Applause), because 90% I repeat, 90%. , accidents cause sober participants in traffic collisions. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with the sober!]] Deputy Minister Warchoł, pretending not to understand what I'm talking about, did not answer the question of what the government would do to reduce the number of accidents caused by sober traffic participants (the Road Bell), accidents of which there are 90%. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Obligation to drink to enter and that is it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u523	Thank you very much, Member. That, of course, was a corrigendum, not... Mr Michał Drink, Agreement. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u524	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the immense misfortune that, with Vladimir Putin's invasion, has fallen to Ukraine, but above all, the enormous openness, open hearts, open houses of Poles, thanks to which we have avoided the humanitarian crisis to this day, I believe that there is no premise that allows us, as the High House, to continue to work in hybrid mode. In view of the involvement of Poles, great diligence, dedication I believe that the place of Polish parliamentarians is here in the Sejm. No time to work by the way, no time to work with the jump. So that I am very cordial to you, but also to your marshals, that this sitting should be the last sitting at which we are working in a hybrid way. At this historic moment, it is time for us to work on the site where there is a place of Polish parliamentarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: We use fuel and Putin makes money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u525	But, sir, you can be at the Sejm every time. I don't see why you shouldn't work. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on medical devices. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2047. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2047 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 444 - for, 9 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a medical device bill. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the Government draft law amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2062. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2062, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on bridge pensions and some other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Water Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2054-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Materna to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u526	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Local Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Water Law, Print Nos 2051 and 2054. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the draft law yesterday, the club of the Left reported an amendment extending the validity of occasional bathing sites from 30 to 60 days. The joint committees today have examined the amendment and recommended that it be adopted and that the bill be adopted in its entirety. Thank you (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u527	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2054. The committees present in the additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) 1 Act - Water law applicants propose that this provision should cover 60 consecutive days. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. For - 228, against - 229, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2054 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 455 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Water Law. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2036. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2036, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 455 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2035. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2035, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up at Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2034. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2034 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 450 - for, no one was against, 4 stopped. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up at Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft Parliamentary Law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2063-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u528	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth unanimously adopted the amendment to the draft Print Act No. 2007 and recommended that the High House adopt a draft law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin together with the amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u529	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2063. The committees also present in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant shall propose that paragraph 7 be amended. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 453 - for, no one was against, 4 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2063, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 453 - for, no one was against, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the creation of the Szczecin University of Maritime Technology. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2058-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u530	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws, seven amendments were tabled on 8 March. The Committee on Public Finance today, after considering these amendments, recommends rejecting the 4th amendment and adopting the remaining six amendments and the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u531	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2058. At the same time, in an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 7b Act on pledge lists and mortgage banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Corporate Income Tax Act proposes an amendment to point 58. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 443 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 130j Act - Bank law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 1a-1c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 79 The Act on Public Offering and Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies proposes to give a new wording of paragraphs. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 214 - for, 235 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 18a in the Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 32 of the amending act propose the addition of a new paragraph. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 240 - for, 206 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 35 of the amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 444 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2058, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2024 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 140 for, 239 against, 77 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Circle of the Confederation by points: - First reading of the Parliamentary draft health segregation bill, - First reading of the Parliamentary draft of the Cheap Fuel Act; - Coalition Club of the Left (New Left, Together) by points: - Information from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration concerning the actions of the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office on acts of anti-Semitism and vandalism that took place in Kalisz on 11 November 2021, - Information from the Minister of Health on a government strategy against the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus; - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with a point: - Information from the Minister of Climate and Environment on the final agreement on climate change concluded at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and the planned actions of the Polish government to implement its provisions. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation on 15 November 2021 requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft health segregation bill. The proposal was renewed by the Circle of the Polish Confederation on 16 December 2021, on 25 January 2022 and on 22 February 2022. Since these are the same conclusions, the Sejm will vote on them together. We proceed to the vote on the same proposals for supplementing the agenda by the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft health segregation bill, submitted by the Association of Parliaments of the Confederation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these proposals will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 19 - for, 436 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has rejected requests for supplementing the agenda. Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation on 15 November 2021 requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft Cheap Fuel Act. The proposal was renewed by the Circle of the Polish Confederation on 16 December 2021, on 25 January 2022 and on 22 February 2022. Since these are the same conclusions, the Sejm will vote on them together. We proceed to the vote on the same proposals for supplementing the agenda by the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft Cheap Fuel Act, submitted by the Association of Members of the Confederation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these proposals will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 180 for, 235 against, holding 40. The Sejm has rejected requests for supplementing the agenda. We are voting on the request for information from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on the actions of the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office on acts of anti-Semitism and vandalism that took place in Kalisz on 11 November 2021. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 222 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information from the Minister of Climate and Environment on the final agreement on climate change concluded at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and the planned actions of the Polish government to implement its provisions. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. For - 225, against - 233, no one stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the request for information from the Minister of Health on a government strategy against the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. With a formal proposal from Mr Boris Budka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u532	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, we will vote on a special bill that aims to help those who help those in need on a daily basis. There's a great chance this bill will go through unanimously. There is also a great opportunity for the Senate to adopt this law as a matter of urgency without amendments, but there is one basic condition. Please, Mr President, withdraw this ridiculous, harmful amendment on the impunity of power. [[Applause]] Withdraw the thing that is disgraceful, which divides this House, which divides Poles. It's really unnecessary. We guarantee that then, as a matter of urgency, the Senate will accept this law without amendment, that we will support, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, this law. Just withdraw the impunity of power. [[Applause]] If you have nothing to fear, you don't need this amendment. If you are so honest, as you assure us, why do you need this amendment? Please withdraw this amendment. Let us adopt this law unanimously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u533	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 19.35. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 16 hours 19 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. I invite all your fellow Members to the room, please. With a formal proposal by Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u534	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thousands, hundreds of thousands of Poles who are involved in helping Ukrainians at borders, at stations, volunteers, those who invite our Ukrainian brothers home, are waiting for this bill, which we will vote on in a moment. This law really does not mean that it should contain rules that depenallise crimes. Poland is the only country in which to fight the humanitarian crisis, depenalizing crimes. It's an absolute event, it's absolutely impossible. [[Applause]] Law and Justice, Mr. President, the great noble idea that stood at the beginning of your party was to wage a fight against crime and corruption, and today you are depenalizing crimes. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] I appeal to my friends in PiS: vote against these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u535	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u536	Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! Putting an amendment on impunity+ into this bill, you take refugees and those who want to help them as hostages of their impunity. This is absolutely unthinkable. I'm asking you to close the sitting and go to jail, which means goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u537	You could write poems, Mr. President, that's how you rhyme. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2077-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u538	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory, print No 2069 and 2096-A. The Parliament at its 50th meeting on 9 March, in accordance with the Rule. 40... re-sent the draft law in print No 2077 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - 123 amendments were tabled and some of them were withdrawn as a result of the vote - voted on 108 amendments. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm accept 31 amendments and 77 reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-sejm-50-2.u539	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who have worked in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and Mr Szczepański for their very efficient and responsible procedures on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2077. The Commission is also presenting amendments and we will vote on them first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new law title with a burden. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 212 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 3 to 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 264 - for, 181 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 3 has become unobtrusive. Amendment 4 also without object. Amendment 5 also without object. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 7 and 8 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 241 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a and amendments to paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 445 for, 3 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph 3. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 452 - for, no one was against, no one held back 5. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 16. to 18. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 447 for, 1 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 18th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 18 has become unobtrusive. In the 19th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 4 and the new wording of paragraph. 13 and 18. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, no 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 17. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, 6 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a and 5b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 6 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 445 for, 5 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. Point 1 (1). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 88 for, 242 against, 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 9 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1 and the new wording of paragraph 1. 14. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 237 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 405 - for, no one was against, 53 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 9 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 448 - for, against, there was no one, held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 172 - for, 233 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 175 for, 231 against, 52 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 9a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding up? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 34th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. 10 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 31 and 32 and add paragraphs. 29a, 31a and 32a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 233 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 29. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 30. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 216 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. 14 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 14 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. 14 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 437 for, 9 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 41st amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, I can see, ladies and gentlemen, that something's wrong, so I'm waiting because I can't see it either. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I haven't finished yet... Have I finished the vote? I haven't finished the vote yet, so... [[It doesn't display remotely.]] 456 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 42nd amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 369 - for, 77 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 43rd amendment to the article. 18 The applicant shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment to the article. 19 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 45th amendment to the article. 21 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 442 - for, 1 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 46th amendment to the article. 22 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 47th amendment to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 48th amendment to the article. 23 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 49th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 23a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 50th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 51st amendment to Article. 24 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 9-16. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 90 for, 234 against, 134 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 52nd amendment to the article. 25 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 53rd amendment to the article. 25 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6-8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 54th amendment to the article. 25 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 55th amendment to Article. 26 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 55th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 56th amendment to Article. 26 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 for, 236 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 57th amendment to Article. 27 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 58th amendment to Article. 28 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2 and 8, amendments to paragraph 1. 2, 4 and 5 and add paragraphs. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 59th amendment to Article. 29 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 89 for, 232 against, 136 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 60th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 30. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 233 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 61st amendment to Article. 32 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 211 - for, 234 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 62nd amendment to Article. 33 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 63rd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 39. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 387 - for, 55 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 64th amendment to the article. 39 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 65th amendment to the article. 42 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 86 for, 234 against, 135 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 66th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 46a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 67th amendment to the article. 47 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1 of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 232 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 68th amendment to Article. 48 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 68th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 205 - for, 240 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 69. the amendment of the applicant proposes to delete Article. 48a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 237 - for, 208 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 70th amendment to the article. 49 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 71st amendment to Article. 50 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 72nd amendment to the article. 50 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 214 - for, 238 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 73rd amendment to the article. 50 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 238 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 74th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 51. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 75th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 51. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 220-for- 230-against-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 76th amendment to the article. 52 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 238 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 77th amendment to Article. 53 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 78th amendment to the article. 55 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 78th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 14 - for, 242 - against, 201 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 79th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 55a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 79th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 439 - for, 16 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 80th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 55b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 80th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, 9 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 81st amendment to Article. 56 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 81st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 13 - for, 232 - against, 211 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 82nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 56a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 82nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 85 - for, 241 - against, 131 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 83rd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 56a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 83rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 182 - for, 264 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 84th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. Article 56a and Article 56a 56b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 84th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 49 - for, 244 - against, 164 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 85th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 60. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 85th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 86th amendment to the article. 61 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 86th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 171 - for, 233 - against, 53 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 87th amendment to the article. 61a applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 87th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 140 for, 265 against, 53 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 88th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 61a and 61b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 88th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 164 - for, 233 - against, 60 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 89th amendment to the article. 63 applicants propose to add Article. 52zj in the amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 89th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 38 - for, 241 - against, 178 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 90th amendment to the article. 63 applicants propose to add Article. 52zj in the amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 90th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 91st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 71. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobtrusive 92th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 91st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 226 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Some Members get up, give a tumultuous applause]] In the 92nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 71. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 92nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The government will turn to you for this.]] 455 Members voted. 229 - for, 224 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 93rd amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 72. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 93rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. For - 225, against - 231, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 94th amendment to Article. 72 applicants propose to add Article. 7d in the amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 94th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 95th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 95th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. For-- 214, 243-- against-- he's holding off on one. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 96th amendment to Article. 73 applicants propose to add new points. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 96th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 443 - for, 1 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 97th amendment to Article. 74 applicants propose to delete point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 97th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 453 - for, 1 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 98th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 82. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 99th amendment. We're voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 228 for, 226 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] In the 99th amendment of the applicant... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Amendment 99 has become pointless. [[Voice from the room: Thieves.]] In the 100th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 83. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 100th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. For - 214, 241 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 101st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 85a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 101st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 173 - for, 239 - against, 45 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 102nd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 88. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 102nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 438 - for, 7 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 103rd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 89. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 103rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 for, 239 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 104th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 92. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 104th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 105th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 94a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 105th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 106th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 96a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 106th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 89 for, 244 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 107th amendment, the applicants propose to add Article. 103b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 107th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 108th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 103c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 108th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 59 - for, 273 - against, withered 125. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2077, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 439 - for, 12 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. [[Applause]] This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 March this year. The meeting shall be adjourned by 11 March 2022 at the latest. 11. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 08]]
