ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Mr Filip Kaczyński and Mr Konrad Frysztak, who will keep the minutes and the list of speakers. Mr Konrad Frysztak will be the secretary in the first part of the session. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u2	Good morning. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Extraordinary for changes in codification - at 3 p.m. 9, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 10, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 10, - Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11.30, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 13.30. I would also like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Parliamentary Group. Youth policy of the State - at 3 p.m. 11.30. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Let's get to the questions. We begin with Mr Waldemar Andzel's question on the adoption of the European Funds for Infrastructure, Climate, Environment 2021-2027. This question is addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy will answer them, Mr Waldemar Buda. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The European Funds programme for Infrastructure, Climate, Environment are the successor to the two previous editions of the Infrastructure and Environment programme 2007-2014 and 2014-2020. Please provide details of the FENIKS programme, including the distribution of the budget, how this is spread across regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u5	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. Mr Waldemar Buda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The FENIKS programme - indeed this is its new name, in short, it is about the European Funds for Infrastructure, Climate and Environment. These funds are indeed of the greatest interest, because it is the largest operating programme in Europe, not only in Poland. This is about EUR 25 billion today. I say: for today, because negotiations are still ongoing, the idea is to transfer part of the amount from the European Social Fund to this fund. So there is a chance that it will be even bigger, although it is still huge, because it is over PLN 100 billion. This is, of course, within the framework of cohesion policy, i.e. those measures that are programmed for the period 2021-2027, and this is a national programme. I answer the question immediately as to whether this program contains any regional envelopes. No, because it pursues the policy objectives indicated in the regulation, and there is no indication of regionalisation, i.e. we do not have a division into voivodships or even lower levels. It is a programme that institutions, entities that will apply to it will be able to use. Some of the projects will be on indicative lists, i.e. if already indicated, some will be implemented in competitions. These are measures, ladies and gentlemen, which respond to three policy objectives, but, in a simpler language, respond to the needs of several sectors. Above all, it is the energy sector, the environment, the transport sector, the cultural and health sector. This shows that it is very wide-ranging. These measures build roads, these measures build railways, these measures implement the Clean Air programme, and these measures implement the My current programme - of course, among other things. In the National Road Fund, the share of European funds from the infrastructure fund, this predecessor, is about 1/3 of the funds that the entire programme finances. We also have cultural tasks here. In the previous perspective - this is also worth emphasising - for this purpose was EUR 460 million, in this perspective we have proposed 700 million. So there's a significant increase. I can point out very, very precisely the division into different segments, the question of how detailed knowledge is needed here. Maybe I'll just talk about project beams. For transportation, roads - 4,5 billion, rail - 5.5 billion, intermodal transport - 230 million, of course the euro, maritime transport - 760 million euro, inland transport - 220, air transport - 50, even slightly increased by the last decision on this issue in the framework of the consultation that we carried out as the Ministry of Funds. Culture is, as I pointed out, 700 million. This is a very ambitious plan, it must be made clear that it pursues very ambitious objectives. We can agree with them, we can not, but these are the very ambitious climate objectives of the European Union. Of course, this does not lead to a positive finale, because the challenges are gigantic and are far beyond this programme. But as far as the environmental objective is concerned, let us remember that the climate marker for all measures is around 37%, i.e. all environmental investments, protecting the environment, reducing emissions refer to approximately 37%. These measures. Very many investments, which are not visible here today, we see as part of the preparation of the programme through the provision of demand by resorts. And they will be implemented in the regions. It's about express roads, it's about rail roads. Those that have not been achieved in the present perspective will be implemented in the next perspective. Some will be staged, some will be staged, but they will be implemented in the current perspective. The programme - like all other national ones, we have several - is now being prepared at the stage after it was officially submitted to the European Commission on 5 January. The Commission has 3 months to evaluate these programmes. The Partnership Agreement itself was submitted on 15 December and all programmes must be in the Commission within 3 months. We've practically put them all together. This program was submitted on 5 January, which is relatively early. We're after an interministerial consultation, after a public consultation. Indeed, we have actually made a lot of amendments, and these comments were well-founded. Of course, when it comes to money, we moved between categories, although here we must say that a certain freedom, total freedom, is not available because the digital marker, the climate marker, was an obligation for us under regulations. The programme went through the whole legislative path because it was considered in the committee of the common government and local government, in the committee on European affairs (the bell), at the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and finally the Council of Ministers on 4 January. Let me remind you, it is the biggest programme in Poland, the largest infrastructure and environmental programme in Europe, it has many goals and we want to run it as soon as possible. I think that in the first half of this year he will already be approved by the Commission and we will be preparing concrete investments for this programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u7	Thank you very much. I would ask you for an additional question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! EUR 25 billion is a huge resource. I understand that this cannot be shared, although I hope that the Śląskie voivodship and Zagłębie Dąbrowskie, from which I come, will also benefit from this programme, as will other regions in Poland. I would like to know if the CPK programme could also be financed by these funds, because this is the program that all Poles are waiting for. Besides, the infrastructure and the rail and the road and the air is a huge challenge, and I'm sure this is where we cheer for it. If there's anything more you can say, go ahead. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Programme The CPK is indeed a new task that appears in this edition of the program, and it will be very intensively supported. Of course, not all tasks, because let us remember that aviation investments do not have a priority due to emissions and can be financed by European funds on the basis of peri-air investments. But we want to fund them very much, of course, from this program. And you are right about that. How important the CPK is at all is that the bill is being processed today. I think that's after SKRM's review. It follows that the tasks and implementations concerning CPK are transferred from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Funds. This also applies to the proxy, currently Minister Martin Horala. What does that mean? This means that the CPK will be closer to European funds, will be in the Ministry of Funds and will therefore be able to use these funds in a much simpler way and reach for them. We only have certain time limits. All expenditure that is eligible and within the horizon by 2027 will also be implemented within the CPK. As for the depths, the Silesian voivodship, of course, it is so that we can look at statistics and be calm. This means the participation of the Silesian voivodship in the use of national funds of the predecessor, which was the PAIiIZ programme, is more than disproportionate to the whole country in terms of population. Therefore, it can be reasonably expected that the amount of investment that will be directed from this programme for the Silesian Voivodeship will be proportionate. But thank you for these efforts and for this regional consideration for Silesia, for the region that you are presenting here. Besides, the Member also comes from this voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u11	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Piotr Adamowicz and Arkadiusz Myrch will ask questions about expropriation of the valuable manuscript held by the Copernican Prince in Toruń and free transfer to the Hungarian government. In this case, the Undersecretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Izabela Antos, will be responsible. I ask Mr Piotr Adamowicz to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For nearly 500 years the cultural heritage of Torunia has been co-created by an extremely valuable medieval manuscript, which has been a member of the Copernican Prince since 1923. This work is not a spoil of war, as it often happens. It was bought by the city council of Toruń centuries ago. The PiS camp unexpectedly came up with the idea of expropriating this work, forbidding Torun and free transfer to the Hungarian government, Prime Minister Orbán. They have special solutions to serve. As scientists emphasize, from the perspective of the world, this manuscript is the most valuable code in the collection of the Princess, and at the same time one of the most valuable Western European manuscripts illustrated from the 15th century, which despite the great catastrophic destructions remained in Polish collections. The project of transferring this monument to orbán Hungarians raised understandable protests not only in the Toruń environment. Recently, he has expressed his opposition, among others. Polish National Committee of the International Council of ICOM Museums. I agree with the statement that this is an attempt to seize the priceless cultural heritage of the Republic. I also fully agree with the Toruń councillors that this scandalous project may not only try to deprive Toruń of parts of history, but also constitute a dangerous precedent for taking away their property to local governments. Therefore, I kindly ask you to answer the following questions. Who and when, from what authority did he start talking to Hungary about the prohibition of Torun and handing over this priceless monument to Hungary? Who's his inventor? Why has the State chosen to expropriate the property held by the local government? The 25 million compensation, the compensation that the government intends to make, is over $6 million (the bell). For 6 million dollars in the antiquary market you can acquire very interesting things, you do not need to take them away from Polish local governments, especially the city of Toruń. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u13	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u14	Good morning. Dear Marshal, Dear Members, Ladies and gentlemen! In February 2020, an invaluable monument for the Polish heritage returned to Poland - the youthful engagement armor of King Zygmunt Augusta, which he received at the age of 13 from Emperor Ferdinand I. It is one of the two best recognizable children's armour in the world, as well as the only full armor of the Polish king in the present collections of the Republic. As a result of the historical turmoil, it was in Budapest, but thanks to the personal efforts of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who addressed the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán with an official request to hand over the Renaissance armor, it returned to the Royal Castle on Wawel. The Hungarians were not legally obliged to hand over the armor to us. They were not obliged to amend the rules prohibiting the export of cultural goods outside the country. Nor were they obliged to reduce their harvests. They were strongly convinced, however, that the place of this valuable monument, and it is worth mentioning here, that its market value is estimated at about PLN 12 million, is in Poland, so they gave it to Poland in the form of a donation, costlessly. The gesture of Prime Minister Orbán was a visible sign of friendship between the two nations, as well as an expression of respect for our common cultural heritage. Passing the work over to Maciej Korwina's codex to Hungary will be an expression of gratitude for having decided to return a unique monument to us regardless of the cost and effort to which they were obliged. The manuscript in the collections of the Copernican Prince in Torun is a Renaissance poem about the library of Hungarian King Maciej Korwin living in the second half of the 15th century. It was one of the first humanist royal libraries in Europe. Its huge collections were almost completely destroyed during the invasions of Turkish troops in Hungary in 1526 and its fragment was sent to Poland. The manuscript written on 62 cards is an important source for studying the history of Korwin's library. Thanks to it you can recreate the content of the collection lost by Hungarians. The historical and symbolic value of the code for the Hungarian people reflects the value of Zygmunt August's armor. We are accompanied by a belief similar to that of the Hungarians, giving us armor that this monument is connected with the national identity of the Hungarians and should return to their homeland. The National Museum in Budapest did not receive financial compensation for the armor received by Poland. However, we are aware that the transfer to Hungary of the codex Maciej Korwina will reduce the resources of the Copernican Prince in Toruń, which is why the owner of the manuscript will receive financial resources, compensation of PLN 25 million from the part of the state budget, which is the responsibility of the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. This amount reflects not only the market price of the code, but also its historical and symbolic value. The amount also compensates for the damage caused by the loss of ownership of the code and its separation from the collection of richly illustrated manuscripts of the Kopernikańska Prince. The financial compensation also takes into account the maintenance, maintenance and care costs of the Prince's work. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have been through wars for centuries, through which we have lost many cultural goods. Poland, Hungary and other countries of the region have lost a large part of their heritage, without which it is not possible to build a national identity. Today we're doing everything we can to get it back. We also try to support other nations in this work. Our gesture to Hungary is the best expression. Thank you very much for your attention. [[We disagree with your position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Arkadius Myrch. There you go. [[Does it work now?]] Take your time. No problem. There you go. [[Does it work now?]] I can't hear you. Why don't you come over to the podium, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u16	If you need anything, Mr. Marshal, this clock...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u17	There you go, no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am sad to admit that we have learned nothing from your statement, because what was the subject of your speech is described in detail in the draft law that is available on the Internet. So it's the occurrence of nothing. The new one didn't. Mr Adamowicz has asked the Minister specific questions that you have not answered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I regret to admit this, but today the debate is not for the three of us, not for the parliamentarians, but for the citizens, for the inhabitants of Torun. The inhabitants of Torun, who are really today, believe me, outraged by the proposal made by the parliamentarians of PiS, did not hear any reason why they should pay such a huge price and whether just because Prime Minister Orbán had proof of the gratitude of Prime Minister Morawiecki. More than 500 years ago, this unique monument was owned by our local government, owned by the Academic Secondary School, to which the city council handed over this monument almost 500 years ago. It has survived many corners of our history: it has survived the war, it has survived the commune, it has survived the partitions, but it turns out it can simply not survive the PiS rule. [[Applause]] Because it is enough to submit a parliamentary bill, collect 15 signatures, so that the inhabitants of Torun devoid of an exceptional monument, whose value is much greater than the state 25 million PLN. We haven't heard about it today, either, why it's so valuable who valued it. What is the value of the monument, which has been associated with the history not only of Torun, but of our country for several hundred years? We are surprised that the Polish government, which calls itself a patriotic government, wants to voluntarily deprive Poland of Polish inhabitants, deprive the inhabitants of Toruń of something unique, something that is an integral part of our national history in the name of the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki feels well and can pat on the shoulder of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Voice from the room: Orbána.]] This is outrageous behavior. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u19	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u20	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, The information presented by me is the information that the Law Firm of the President of the Council of Ministers has in the scope of proceding over the parliamentary bill referred to today. On the other hand, I will refer to the issue of valuation. Where's the $25 million coming from? This amount was presented to us, as the authorising officer of part of the budget, the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and secured in funds. [[And who introduced her?]] [[By whom?]] I don't have that knowledge, we'll take it in writing. On the other hand, I can also give as an example the valuation of such works that appear on the market, that the evangelist Henryk Lwa¿ of the 12th century. In December 2012, it was sold for $6.2 million. So such amounts appear on the market and I think that this valuation is based simply on available market data. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Why don't you want to talk?]] [[By chance, yesterday at the meeting of the cultural committee, we learned more than today from what the Minister said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u21	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Wanda Nowicka and Magdalena Beyat will ask questions about supporting families in difficult economic and social situations in the care of the newborn, including taking children away from families who are able to take care of their children. This question is asked to the President of the Council of Ministers. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I would like to ask Mrs Wanda Nowick for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I ask questions about the situation of families in difficult economic and social situations, which they still want and are able to take care of their children if they receive the necessary state aid. The question has been raised recently by the media by the case of Mrs. Patricia, a nursing mother who was taken from Julia's daughter by a court order three days after her birth directly from St. Zofia in Warsaw only on the basis of one fax. Although the economic situation of the family is undoubtedly difficult, and parents have a judgment about light disability, they would be able to look after their own children if these parents were to receive the necessary help. Without deciding the merits of the court's decision, I would like to say that there is no doubt that there is a great deal of urgency in this case and that there are no proper procedures to ensure that the decision is fully justified and sufficiently documented. Moreover, it is very disturbing how a woman has been treated by institutions that have taken care of her child. She was not informed of the decision of the court and no contact with the child was made. I ask you to answer the following questions: How do the services to support families in need of assistance support families in a more difficult economic and social situation so that they can take care without harming the child if, of course, they want and are able to take care of them? Is this aid that the State is providing sufficient? Is the way Mrs. Patricia was treated standard in similar situations or in an accident at work? I remind you that, first of all, her child was taken away without informing her of the decision of the court, second, her access to the newborn was restricted, and thirdly (The Bell), she was prevented from breast-feeding. How many cases of taking children away from families in a more difficult situation in Poland, however, do they have the chance to take care of their children after receiving the necessary help? I stress that this is not about families with obvious pathologies, such as violence, drugs, alcohol. In the case of Mrs Patricia, has the government taken intervention, control or corrective action to verify that everything was done in accordance with standards? Isn't there a need for intervention in this matter? If such action has been taken, are there any arrangements in this matter? Did Mrs. Patricia's family receive any assistance from the relevant services? I'm asking for an answer both in writing and here in the courtroom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u23	Thank you, madam. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Stanisław Szwed, Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Welcome, Minister. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm gonna answer that question, and I'm gonna answer the extra questions. I would like to say that, of course, when it comes to specific issues, the question should be addressed to the Minister of Justice. As the Member rightly pointed out, the decision was taken by an independent court. It was his decision. The question was so formulated that it was addressed to our ministry and hence my presence here. The question in general concerns the situation of families and the support of those who are in the most difficult situation. That's what I'm gonna talk about. As far as the sections on justice are concerned, I will not answer in this respect. If additional explanations are needed as to what the Member said in her speech, we will ask the Minister of Justice to give an answer in this regard. Of course, with regard to our government's family policy, from the very beginning, since 2015, its main objective is to support families, especially families, which are in the most difficult material situation. Of course, I will call on the most important programs that support families, such as the 500+ ̄Family programme. According to the most recent data 175 billion PLN went to Polish families. Over 6 million nearly 600,000. children participate in this program. The next programme is Good Start, i.e. the so-called. It's a school trip. It is also aimed at children, i.e. it is additional support. The latest solution is family custody. It is about the funding of PLN 500 for families for the second and subsequent children who have completed 12 months of age, but have not completed 36 months of age. It's about two-year-olds and three-year-olds. In the case of families with only one child, we provide up to 400 PLN for day care. It is about funding for day care of 400 PLN. That's a lot of support, too. We estimate that there will be over PLN 3 billion in family care capital this year. There are a whole range of family benefits addressed to families, e.g. Child benefit allowances, child birth allowance - PLN 1000 at one time, child upbringing allowance - PLN 95, child upbringing allowance - PLN 193 per child per month, child care allowance during the period of parental leave - PLN 100, education and rehabilitation allowance for the disabled child, supplement for the beginning of the school year. I could exchange more solutions. As far as family benefits related to the birth of a child are concerned, there is an additional one-off double beech in the amount of PLN 1000. Here is already a profit criterion - 1922 PLN. There is also a very important solution that we have implemented, i.e. parental benefit - also 1000 PLN - for those who are not insured. He's using about 80,000. mothers for a year. It's also a family benefit. As far as issues related to maintenance fund benefits are concerned, we have changed and introduced a solution related to the income criterion and the mechanism: a zloty zloty. Every 3 years there will be a verification of the income criterion. Let me remind you, now it's 900 zł. The amount of support from the maintenance fund is 500 PLN. As for the part of the question concerning the taking away of children who are in difficulty, let me remind you that we have made very fundamental changes to the Family and Care Code. You can't pick up kids because of poverty. That's a very good solution. This case has been decided clearly. There's no permission to pick up children because of poverty. That's not gonna happen. As far as other ways of supporting families who are in difficulty are concerned, the main actions are so-called. service of a family assistant. That's the form we're developing. Further changes in the Life Programme concern family assistant, day support facility and other forms of family support, i.e. the programme is comprehensive and aims to support families in such situations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! Maybe in the second part I will complete the statement and you will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u25	Okay, here you go. I ask you, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, for the task... [[The Member wanted to speak from the speaker.]] [[But don't worry, I can...]] [[Voice from the room: Doesn't it work?]] I think you're gonna have to approach the podium and take the advice of our favorite Member of the Civic Platform. Thank you for your advice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u26	Minister! The information you've provided us here is very limited and a little off the subject. Of course, we support all these family funding schemes to varying degrees, but that was not the question. The question was, what kind of support in cases such as the case of Mrs. Patricia can count on a family that needs support. You talked about assisting, but as far as the development of a network of family assistants and support for non-institutional families is concerned, we have quite an ungrateful example of a huge strategy for deinstitutionalisation comprehensive and very well prepared by the expert community that you threw into the basket, so it's not really something to brag about. With Mrs Nowicka, we are asking for very concrete solutions and specific families who need help today. Well, maybe I'll ask you a question about the problem with picking up kids, which is teenage mothers. Here, too, there is a lack of state support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. We have a problem with the support of teenage mothers, especially those in nursing homes and rehabilitation centres. In this case, other civil rights advocates have intervened on several occasions and nothing is happening. I'm told there's a project in the Ministry of Justice again, but I'm hoping that the family ministry is also interested in this subject and knows what's going on with it, which was supposed to solve it, but is stuck in a consultation. So the question is, what's going on in this episode? Whether the Ministry of the Family is interested in teenage mothers, whether you follow the rules that make us give birth, and then let's manage on our own. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u27	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u28	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, all of the data I presented to you is in very limited form, because I also have a very short time to answer. As regards the second point that you have asked about family assistants, day support facilities or families, the solution that follows from the Family Support Act and the foster care system is in the legislation, but is also being prepared, as you have rightly pointed out, new solutions which are at the moment at the consultation stage. With regard to assistance issues, more than 3824 family assistants were employed in 2020. As part of these activities, almost 42 000 assistance services were used. Families, that's a good example too. Further steps are also being taken under the Life Programme to strengthen family assistants. We want to have a family assistant in every county. As regards the issue of other activities related to day support facilities, there are almost 2000 such facilities in Poland, including more than 1000 institutions that operate through NGOs, not by local government. For this reason, in 2020, because we have the latest data, over 32 000 have benefited. children, i.e. family assistants, day support facilities, but also support families, i.e. those closest to the people who can provide such support. In 2020, these support families were 67, with 72 families benefiting from this support. So there's a whole range of actions that we're doing, and there's additional measures. Of course there must be support for both NGOs and local organisations in this respect. If we are talking about self-government, it is very important that both the county and municipal authorities are involved in providing support in this respect. As I have already mentioned, the programme's novel for life is also going in such a way as to help families who need such support, including educational and psychological support. Because it is also very important in such difficult situations, and it is within the framework of the Life Programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're also increasing the effort. In the coming years they will increase from over 3,500 million PLN to almost 6 billion PLN. As for the question of justice, we will address the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u29	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Peter, dear, but this is not a studio, you are really disturbing there. Please don't say anything, and I'm asking you to come in, or change the studio, a polite request. Yes? Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the next question. Members Andrzej Grzyb and Marek Sawicki will ask a question about the cost of concluding an agreement on the operation of the Brown Coal Mine of Turów. This question will be asked to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf he will answer, under his authority, the Minister for Climate and Environment, Minister Anna Moscow. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! An agreement was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Czech Republic on cooperation in relation to the effects on the territory of the Czech Republic resulting from the exploitation of the Brunette Coal Mine. This agreement assumes that Poland is to pay EUR 35 million in compensation, while the Polish Energy Group Foundation is to transfer EUR 10 million to the Liberec country. In addition, Poland has undertaken to complete the construction of an underground wall to prevent the drainage of groundwater in the Czech Republic, to build a protective wall and other measures to improve air quality in the border region, as well as to prevent landslides and to reduce groundwater levels. It is worth noting that on 12 February 2021 the then Czech Minister for Foreign Affairs Tomasz Petrziczek, before submitting a complaint to the TSUE, proposed an amicable settlement of the problem in an adjacent area on the Czech side of the mine. The cost of the solution proposed at that time was estimated at EUR 38 million, which is about 7 million less than the amount finally agreed in the above agreement. An important point of the agreement also concerns the duration of this agreement, which is 5 years. At the same time, this is all to be done under the supervision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Nor can we forget that the penalty of 500,000 has been imposed on Poland. The euro per day for not implementing the interim measure - I am not referring here to the appropriateness of imposing this provisional measure, as well as to the consequences for the Polish energy system - and the Polish government declares that it does not intend to pay this penalty, which is currently EUR 68 million. I'd like to ask questions. First: What investments did Poland commit to in the agreement concluded with the Czech Republic? Secondly, the announcement is that the government will use all the instruments not to pay the penalty of EUR 68 million. Can the Commission deduct this from EU funds? Unofficial information says that the first tranche, EUR 15 million, is due to be hit by mid-month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Welcome to the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question! Before I talk about these investments, a few sentences of reference to the Member's speech. Indeed, there were very different proposals from the Czech side during the discussions, including very different financial proposals, but it is important to remember that this first proposal, which came in February last year, was a proposal under the title: you pay the funds and the subject is now closed. It was not a comprehensive agreement, as it is today, which in no way protected us from such situations that in the future the Czechs would again have further claims, further demands. It has in no way defined ways of resolving potential disputes, i.e., by default, an analogous situation or a potential dispute before the TSUE could arise. It was a very short proposal on the basis of the amount and conclusion of the subject for the moment. In addition, this agreement was in no way parametrised or clarified - actually it was not an agreement, it was a proposal - for monitoring. So the Czechs, potentially, could still have claims due to misinterpretation or lack of data on water quality, air quality or noise. What we wanted to do - that the agreement we signed should be an agreement ultimately, comprehensively and unambiguously resolving this dispute. And in this agreement much more important than the amount - because in the public narrative there is concentration on the amount, and this amount is two lines apart in this agreement - is to define ways of monitoring, monitoring parameters, but also that the Czech party will participate in the preparation of this methodology, the preparation of specific investments. So we are really going to implement all the investments already set out in the environmental decision, because a large part of these monitoring and monitoring parameters has already been defined in the environmental decision, and what is new is the participation of the Czech party. So there's gonna be an expert at the moment we pick a hole, e.g. water monitoring opening - four such openings are planned. So, together with Polish and Czech experts, we will determine the place and way of carrying out these drillings, so that in the future there will be no dispute about Poland's improper monitoring. What is still important is that this agreement is bilateral. As of today, we did not have precise information from the Czech side about how they were monitored, about the parameters of this monitoring. This agreement also obliges the Czech party to provide us with specific information, among others. of all water law permits to be issued in the case of Uhelna. Perhaps the problem of water scarcity is due to excessive exploitation by operators on the other side. As of today, we do not know what water permits are issued and what permits, what amount of water is issued on the Czech side. We don't have any information about the gravel pit either. No Directive requires such detailed monitoring and communication of information on both sides. Thanks to this we will also have detailed readings from the monitoring of all these parameters, which will be prepared by the Czech side, so this information will be objective and based on an agreed system. As far as these investments are concerned, there will indeed be completion of the natural shaft and water protection barrier, minor lighting modernisation, technical noise measurement point and air quality measurement stations, openings in aquifers to measure water quantity and quality. And the same investments on their side will be carried out by the Czech side so that we can compare these figures. What is still important about resolving disputes - because in the public narrative what is emphasized is the TSUE, and in order for this to happen to the TSUE, something must happen, there must still be a few steps taken, which are described in the agreement, and they are much more important than this element related to the TSUE. As of today, such rules of amicable settlement of disputes between us and the Czech Republic in this border area, in mining areas, we did not have. First, internal experts are appointed by the parties, second by external experts. The third step is the plenipotentiaries who regularly monitor this agreement. Finally, the fourth step is the EUSF, but not as it is today, that in any case the Czech party with any complaint may go to the Court and then the Court, although it has no competence as regards the financial penalties (the bell), such a penalty is granted. The Court shall rule only on the case, without the possibility of imposing penalties. And only when one of the parties fails to comply with the recommendations will the case return to the Court, and the Court may then impose only a lump sum penalty on the party who failed to comply with the judgment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to thank you at first. It's a good thing you took that job. Minister Kurtyka has negotiated for many years, and Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Sasin have also joined in, and have failed. You just stopped the penalty counter that the TSUE imposed on Poland. In his public statement, Deputy Minister Odoroba said that the penalty imposed was the responsibility of Minister Szymański, because probably a representative of Poland at the Court of Justice was not properly prepared to defend the Polish interest, and in the communication of the Court of Justice we have full information that the Polish party did not demonstrate to what extent the closure of this power plant threatens the energy shortage or the energy problem of Poland. So I wanted to ask if someone was really going to answer for this. The problem could have been closed at the management stage of the Turów mine. It's not locked. This could be defended before the Court of Justice. It wasn't protected. Let me put it this way: the ministers in front of you simply screwed up these negotiations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u36	Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that good word, but it's not exactly the case. For this deal to end, all the resorts and experts must work. We have such detailed monitoring standards because they involve GIOŚ, WDOŚ and all environmental and geological services. The time to negotiate such a detailed and precise agreement so that no party can interpret it in the future is necessary. On November 5th, when I went to Prague, I also had a deep conviction that I would sit down with my counterpart Minister Brabc and the other four lines I would negotiate in half an hour, tops in an hour. On the other hand, in contact with the Czech side and the government of Prime Minister Babisz, I confirm what was previously also communicated from the side and the Minister of Kurtyka, and other participants in this dialogue: this was not a dialogue. Then there was the election, then there was the election, there was a new government. Perhaps for some reason this topic was a subject needed in the campaign and heated the Polish-Czech dispute. Later, in November and December, I attempted daily contact with the Minister of the Environment, his counterpart. Apart from the courtesy answers, we were unable to return to substantive discussions. There was no good will, nor was there a desire to focus on the details and talk about the details. As far as Poland is concerned and representing us before the Court, I would like to remind you that there was no time to provide a large amount of materials or to present our position. This sentence was handed down by the famous Judge Lapuerta quickly, after our only written explanations that we could send without further questions. We had no information that there was any doubt About that. Let me remind you that if we have an infringement in relation to any directive, because these infringements or investigations of infringements appear, then first The Commission asks, then there are meetings, hundreds of letters, some period for possible repair, and only after some time, often 2-3 years, does a possible ruling appear. We have never had such a ruling as Poland, so we do not know exactly what the process of issuing this penalty looks like. On the other hand, we know that it lasts for a very long time. The proof of this is that in the clean air procedure or in any other potential breach that we had, this process was a long and financial judgment that meant such an amount, and in this way it has not yet ended. I will yet refer to what you have been asking - because I have not answered - whether there is a chance that the penalty charged so far will be withdrawn. Looking at the Court's flexibility and the possibility of imposing a financial penalty as a temporary measure, which the Treaty does not allow (the Bell) to impose, it seems that flexibility in this situation is also possible. This is the proposal we have made with reference to the specific legal basis of the Rules, which, due to changing circumstances, allows the penalty to be withdrawn. We hope that this proposal will be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u37	Thank you very much. Members of Joanna Borowiak and Lidia Burzyńska will ask a question about the amount of government support for CSR units in the purchase of rescue and fire trucks over the years 2016-2022. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Minister Maciej Wąsik, will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Excuse me, Minister. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Volunteer fire department units occupy an extremely important place in the Polish fire protection system and in the fire protection system. Firefighters in local communities are called the silent heroes of everyday life. Because of their willingness to help others unselfishly, they are appreciated by society. The service of firefighters' friends is not easy. Their daily tasks are not only to put out fires, but also to rescue victims of road accidents or to help eliminate the effects of natural disasters. Unique assistance for the CSR buddies in the case of the pandemic of Coronavirus is directed especially to seniors, providing them with support in everyday matters and needs and helping to reach vaccination points against COVID-19. In addition to providing assistance in times of threat to local communities, the CSR buddies are also excellent transmitters of Polish traditions and values. Their passion is infecting the younger generation by organizing and training children's and youth fire teams, thus passing on the mission of helping people often at risk of their own health and life. According to the motto: God for glory, people for the benefit of bridesmaids and CSR bridesmaids are always present in the right place at the right time. The role of voluntary firefighters in Poland is appreciated by the Government of Law and Justice, which is illustrated by financial support and in-kind support provided to volunteers throughout the country on an unparalleled scale. Minister! Please answer the question: How many cars were purchased in 2016-2022 for voluntary fire department units? What kind and type of cars were these? To what extent were the total funds allocated, broken down by voivodship, in particular with regard to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Śląski, Łódź, Mazowieckie and Podkarpackie voivodships?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u39	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, I would like to point out that Mrs Borowiak has largely responded to these questions by showing the great role of the TSOs in the local community. But it's not just a role in the local community, because we realize that it's also a huge role in public security. A large part of our security is voluntary firefighters, a national fire escape system. We are aware that this system must be supported. This system that is unique in the world, based on volunteering, voluntary service, this system must be supported and supported by the government. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm getting to the bottom of this. In the years 2016-2021 in total, 2420 specialized vehicles were sent to the CSR units for rescue and fire-fighting operations. In view of the plans for 2022, almost 3 000 will reach the TSOs between 2016 and 2022. new vehicles. How is this presented in particular years? 2016 - 202 vehicles, 2017 - 350 vehicles, 2018 - 455 vehicles, 2019 - 499 vehicles, 2020 - 597 vehicles, 2021 - 317 vehicles and a plan for 2022 is 518 vehicles. It can be seen here that in 2021 there was a decrease in purchases, but I would like to assure you that this is not due to reduced funding, but rather to problems, perturbation in the automotive market resulting from certain complications of post-COVID in this market. This money will not be lost, will be transferred to the following year, together with budget appropriations and not only in the budget, because these are funds from the national environmental fund, funds from insurance companies, funds from the national emergency and gas system and, of course, the budget resources of the MMSiA. This year there should be 518 cars purchased by voluntary firefighters with a capital grant from the state budget. I would like to say that as regards the division into voivodships that you have asked about, this aid is proportionate to the size of the voivodship, to the needs, to the number of CSRs. In conclusion: in the years 2016-2022, I will already speak with regard to 2022, in terms of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, total assistance over the years are 132 cars, Łódź voivodship - 247 cars, Mazowieckie voivodship - 383 cars, Podkarpackie voivodship - 239 cars, Śląskie voivodship - 261 cars. I would like to emphasise one more element. The decision of the chief chief of fire department sitting here has changed the way cars are used in the State Fire Department, shortening their use, so that cars are as modern as possible in PSP. Therefore, a large number of very good, unexploited cars will also be sent to voluntary firefighters by transfer from PSP to TSOs. There will be no need for subsidies, contributions from the local government - and often, especially in small, poor municipalities, where there are small, small TSOs, which have fewer trips, this is a serious problem. We predict that some 500 used cars will be made available to voluntary firefighters this year thanks to PSP activities. We want to invest PSPs when it comes to new cars, because there are already more modern cars on the market, better equipped, and those that are still quite efficient, these good cars, let's say, 10 years old, unexploded, will go to voluntary fire services, which will be a huge support for fire protection, but not only. I would also like to assure you that, in addition to the law on voluntary firefighters, the government is planning and is about to present to the High House further ideas for the expansion of this system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u41	Thank you very much. At the same time, I welcome your commandant. Welcome, sir. The next question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I thank the Minister for such contentious and joyful information as regards the support of the Government of Law and Justice for voluntary firefighters. This statement was possible due to real action between 2016 and 2022. Volunteer firefighters are tasked not only with protecting life, health, property, but also with environmental threats in different places. In addition to such great support by the Government of Law and Justice, volunteers, in terms of equipment, also take care of their medical rescue training, which increases the expertise of the assistance provided to the victims. Minister! Since I know that voluntary firefighters (The Bell) who are close to people are still supported and still want to be equipped, my question is: What plans for support for voluntary firefighters are foreseen in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u43	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have already partially answered part of your question, talking about the 2022 plans, for which I signed a decision granting the grant a few days ago exactly 518 firefighters who will be able to buy these cars, but I will admit that next year we are also planning to take great care of the firefighter's budget. We also want, in line with the suggestions made by the volunteer fire department, to allocate additional funds for the renovation of the firewalls. There's also going to be a big program. European PSP on Photovoltaics in Remise. This will be supported. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. I do not want to run too far into the future, but I think that soon the High House will be able to work - it will be a great pleasure for me if I can run this law - on a new law that will also extend the scope of voluntary firefighters' activities. It will be a law that will slightly change the crisis management system. We also see the great role of volunteer firefighters here. Of course, this support will also be financial, also legal, also training. What you said about medical rescue is extremely important. This system will try very hard to expand so that in all services the number of medical rescuers is as high as possible. We understand these needs and also volunteer firefighters will get adequate apanasia associated with this. I think that many questions are answered by the law on voluntary firefighters, which talks about providing a whole cycle of training for volunteers by the State Fire Department, where we say that the education of a volunteer capable of rescue is equivalent to the training of a professional firefighter. Besides, it's an open road from CSR to PSP. We think it's a good way to go, that this is the right direction, and that's how we want to develop firefighters. These are also courses that are about to start in the State Fire Department for category C drivers, for young firefighters who are just entering this rescue life, so that they can replace older generations of firefighters who have so far been driving firefighters so that these young people can not for their money, but for the resources provided by the government gain new competences to carry out rescue operations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u45	Thank you for asking. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Urszula Zielińska and Mirosława Nykiel will ask a question about the nationwide anti-EU campaign of Polish Power Plant - initiatives controlled by the Treasury of electricity generators. This question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. He will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Karol Rabenda. I ask you, Mrs Margaret Tracz, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For several weeks we have witnessed the opening of an anti-EU campaign in public space since Poland joined the European Union. On the streets of Polish cities, on radio, on television, on the Internet, in the press, and even on our mailboxes we see a polexite advertisement financed by companies of the State Treasury, because Polish Power Plants, i.e.Tauron, Enea, PGE, PGNiG, are behind this campaign. This anti-EU campaign will enter the canon of examples of lies and manipulations, because this is a manipulation that is supposed to convince people that 60% prices on their electricity bills are the fault of the European Union's climate policy. [[It is.]] And the truth is, the cost of CO emissions Minister! Simple questions. How much money did the Treasury companies spend on this slander campaign? Did Minister Sasin know about this planned campaign? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Perhaps he gave her an opinion or approved it. Is this a campaign aimed at the exit of Poland from the European Union? If so, Minister Sasin has political responsibility for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u47	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister. Mr Karol Rabenda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The largest domestic power generators: Tauron Production, Enea Production, Enea Połaniec, PGE Mining and Conventional Energy and PGNiG Thermika launched an educational and information campaign on electricity production costs. The campaign is implemented by the Polish Power Plant Economic Society, which brings together energy producers and in its campaign refers to production costs. In this way TGPE refers to the areas of activity of the energy vendors and generators it represents. The campaign planned for the period from 24 January to 28 February 2022 is educational and informational and aims to inform the public about the structure of the cost of electricity production in Poland and how this price is affected by the European Union's climate policy... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] [[Voice from the room: 20%.]] ...in particular CO emission allowances [[Listen to the experts.]] Based on publicly available data, the campaign indicated that 60% the cost of generating electricity in Poland is the price of emission allowances. [[Voice from the room: 20%.]] These aren't data taken from space. [[Voice from the room: From outer space.]] These are undeniable data, these are data widely available, confirmed by experts. [[Voice from the room: Manipulation.]] It is clear that EU climate policy is the main cause of rising electricity prices. [[A voice from the room: No!]] In 2016, the price of allowances was 6 euro. It currently reaches EUR 90 per tonne. That's 15 times the increase in five years. Polish energy is changing, but energy transformation is a process. It's almost 70% today. electricity in Poland comes from conventional power plants which, due to EU climate policy, buy CO emission allowances The information on the energy cost structure provided in the TGPE campaign is consistent with information that is provided by companies trading in energy to consumers under applicable law. In view of the legal obligation of the company to trade in energy at the turn of 2021 and 2022, it provided customers with information on the cost structure of the electricity seller. The obligation was based on § Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Regulation of the Minister for Energy of 6 March 2009 on detailed rules for the shaping and calculation of tariffs and electricity billing. To sum up, the campaign is educational and informational. [[It's manipulative.]] It was created at the initiative of energy producers, not at the initiative of the government. Any questions concerning the campaign should therefore be addressed to the management boards of those companies which are responsible for the conduct of the current cases of those entities. [[Voice from the room: That's what we're gonna do.]] As for the specific questions, the Ministry has no information on the cost of these campaigns. These are campaigns of power generators in Poland, supplying this current to Poles. [[Treasury companies.]] [[So what are you guys doing on these boards?]] Poles have the right to know what they pay for. They have a right to know how much they pay the tax, and they also need to know how much they bear in relation to EU climate policy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Manipulation!]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] [[Then why do you have those members on the board if you don't know anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome. [[Mirosława Nykiel, Mr. Marshal.]] Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. Sorry about the mistake. I'm sorry, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to show a picture from 2016 from the UK. There used to be buses that said that the EU's health care policy was underfunded. A few months later, the British voted in favour of the Brexit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second picture. 2021, Poland. On billboards are lyingly made the thesis that for 60% energy prices correspond to the European Union. These two pictures, High Izbo, combine two things: lies and the desire to pass on inadequacies, government omissions in the field of energy policy to the European Union. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know very well that in the organized, centralised country of PiS this policy - you said that Polish power plants are responsible for it - is your policy. We demand a written calculation of all the indicators you spoke of. You said it was 60%. And all the experts on the market say it's 20%. Please explain this calculation in writing. Answer the Poles why you insist and want to get Poland out of the Union. This is the beginning of this campaign. After all, this beginning was a little earlier, but the official, outdoor - since 2021 PiS is a polexit, but Poles and Poles know exactly what value the European Union is, and will not allow Poland to leave the Union. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's bullshit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u51	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. [[Tell me what these board members do when they don't know anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u52	Member, please send such a letter. Of course, we would be very happy to answer them. I wanted to correct: this is not a campaign of slander. This is an information and education campaign. Poles have the right to know what they pay for when it comes to energy bills. [[This is manipulation. That's 20%, not 60%.]] And it will not be so that you will defend these decisions of the European Union and transfer it to entities that supply electricity to Poles in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Please continue to apply.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u53	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Karol Rabenda: Thank you for this question.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: People have a right to know what it looks like now.]] Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marek Polak and Mrs Barbara Dziuk - welcome in good health, Mrs Dziuk - will ask a question about changing the terrestrial broadcasting system of digital television. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and he will answer, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Janusz Cieszyński. Please, Mr Marek Polak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This year, the terrestrial television system is to be changed from DVB-T to DVB-T2/HEVC. This process is to start on 28 March and continue until 27 June. During this time, old transmitters will be switched off in four stages throughout Poland and new transmitters will be switched on in place. As a result of this change, some households may lose access to digital terrestrial television, as older TVs do not support a new standard and need to be supplemented with an appropriate decoder. Therefore, in order to minimise the costs of these changes, a programme is being prepared to finance the purchase of the said equipment. I would like to ask the Minister what is the scale of households that are at risk of losing access to terrestrial television and whether the programme has a chance to be implemented before the first stage of the signal change, i.e. before 28 March this year.? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u55	Please continue with Mrs Barbara Dziuk's question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new standard means technical changes to the transmission of the signal. Encoding will be used, as my fellow Member has said, and some costs will have to be borne. Therefore, like here, many people are concerned about these costs of joining the new TV. How's it gonna look from the technical side? What kind of solutions does the Ministry have? Will the problems associated with this transition be addressed in some way in the information campaign? Because advertising has been going on in the media so far, but will the Ministry now make every effort to disseminate the information so that the news about changing decoders (the bell) and the exchange of television sets get to every recipient? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u57	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. On the second day, I have the pleasure of conducting deliberations when you are fighting the subject. [[Voice from the room: That's good.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a pleasure to have your marshal behind my back, too. Turning to the question, honourable Members, as regards this change, as we have already said in the course of the work on the law, it is due to regulations at EU level. The European Union has stated that in order to release the band for the high-speed Internet, 5G calls require a shift of the band on which digital terrestrial television is broadcast. Therefore, the government has prepared a cover programme that will allow households not to bear the cost of this transformation when they cannot afford it. For every citizen there will be funding available, for each household this funding amounts to PLN 100. In this amount you can obtain funds to purchase a decoder that will allow you to receive digital TV in a new standard. As regards estimates of how many households will be supported, the funding is available, as I said, for everyone. According to estimates of the National Media Institute, i.e. the entity that is subject to the National Radio and Television Council, such households are currently 2270 thousand. Of course, these activities have been carried out for some time in cooperation with all media representatives, because it is the common interest of all media and of all citizens to ensure that this transformation goes smoothly and quickly. We have information that this number could probably be smaller at present, while this is the current data at the moment of preparation of the report that was published last year. As regards issues related to the campaign and the readiness of the system, this project is being examined as an urgent one. It was successfully voted out yesterday, which is why I thank all the parties to the political scene for their broad support. We think that in fact at the beginning of March you will be able to download vouchers and you will be able to shop. It is worth remembering that this is done in part. The most important thing is that for the first stage the inhabitants of western Poland, especially the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, should be prepared for the first stage. There, this change will take place first and gradually it will move east and eventually will cover the whole of Poland. This process will end at the end of June this year. Like I said, anyone can take advantage of it. There will be a simple mechanism, a voucher can be obtained by e-service or in post office. Then with such a bon in a permitted store, which will apply to the program, you will be able to realize it and receive a decoder with funding. As far as the information campaign is concerned, one of the elements of this law is the provision of funds for the campaign. This campaign, I hope, will be very wide. It will include not only television, in which this is already being discussed, but also all other types of media, so that we can reach everyone who might be interested in it. From this point on, I also make a big appeal to all your parliamentarians: let us get involved together, let us inform our constituents or our constituents that such a change is coming, and how we can prepare for this. Thank you very much. If there's any more questions, I'm at your disposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u59	Please, Mr Marek Polak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the information available, the announced changes will not apply to subscribers to cable and satellite television, as the digital tunnel is not used both in the first and in the second case. I ask the Minister to confirm this information or deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u61	Thank you. Madam, second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changing the transmission should not cause problems in reception. This is due to the information we received from the Minister. On the other hand, will it be necessary to replace the receiving antenna? How will this take place technically? Are the concerns of the recipients, perhaps the right ones, related to the whole installation justified, or will there be (the bell) no problems associated with this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u63	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u64	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as these questions are concerned, yes, I confirm, these changes will not cover other broadcasting technologies. We are talking about changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting, so cable, satellites remain as they were, there is no need to make any changes. On the other hand, when it comes to matters relating to the antenna and other elements of the installation, they should be used for the installations that our citizens already have in their homes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u65	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for asking. Let's move on to the next question. Mariusz Trepek and Andrzej Gawron will ask a question about the National Academic Representation project. This question will be asked by the Minister of Education and Science, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science will answer by Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki. I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u66	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! National Academic Representation - a very good project, it needs to be promoted. At the moment, the third edition of this project has already started for athletes studying. We want medals, the Olympic Games are going on right now. Students can benefit from this project and we want them to use and promote Poland on the international stage. For those who pursue a sport career, it is intended to finance individual classes at the university. All so that young people can learn and develop their sports talents in parallel. The program organizes the Ministry of Education in cooperation with the Academic Sports Union. Minister! What funding is earmarked to support the education of athletes students? Who can get that support? How many students and how many universities have participated in the previous two editions of this project? What amounts were then allocated to the organisation of additional activities? And what's the deadline for the third edition? As parliamentarians, we also want as many of our athletes as possible to benefit from this program and to develop their sports skills and increase their sporting achievements. With this kind of support, it will be possible. I'd really like an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u67	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. It is very important from the point of view of the functioning of what we call the academic world, but here it has a particular dimension, because it really concerns what is related, yes, to academic career, to the student career of individual persons, but it also connects with this second, very important and important activity of young people, i.e. with sports activity. Not so long ago, actually last year we all participated in this celebration of sport, which was the Olympics. We also participated in this series of meetings with athletes from academic sports unions who became Olympic medalists. Why am I talking about this? Because I want to point out our very important commitment as representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science to athletes who try to combine education with a sport career. These wonderful results that they achieve in sports are the result of their activity, which we do not see every day. It's just the result of hard, everyday work. It's about these necessary trips to training, groups, sports camps. These are people who have families, these are people who are also very often students. 25% of our Olympians are members of academic sports teams, so students. Therefore, the initiative of the sports programme, which you are asking about, the programme which is being implemented... Today we will have to deal with its third edition. 10 million PLN was allocated to this program in the previous edition. At present, we also have this amount planned for this programme. The deadline for submitting applications is 21 February. The condition is one: the university must meet the requirements for the number of students. This is set at 200 students in steady mode. This must also apply to a very specific person. Here an amount of 18 thousand is foreseen for each student. plus indirect costs of 10% So it's going to give us almost 20,000. It is really intended for the implementation of 100 teaching hours for those students who, due to training, cannot normally pursue their studies in sports competitions, whether in first or second degree studies. So these classes, these hours that are scheduled for an Olympic student, are classes that can actually be carried out mostly in individual mode, but can also be carried out in group mode. It is also worth mentioning that, as far as this programme is concerned, it really concerns the year, which is 12 months, but let us also bear in mind that this number of 100 hours is actually exhausting the necessary number of hours, which guarantees the completion of the next year of study. Let us also remember that in this current system the academic year does not coincide with the next year of study or the calendar year, but here the budgetary discipline makes it clear year after year. As far as these subsequent editions are concerned, the first edition uses PLN 3 382 383. As far as the appropriations were concerned in the previous year, i.e. 2021, this was PLN 9 455 570. Let me add that we account for (the bell) the actual hours realized. We grant university funds for 100 hours, and later it is the settlement of actual hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! Thank you, Minister, for such detailed information. Surely the support of athlete students is very important, all the more so that in the present time, in order to achieve results, we really need to have the facilities that will allow these results to be achieved. I have a question for you. You were talking about the dynamics. There were 3 million used, now almost 9 million. And this dynamic is very big. You'd have to wonder if you'd increase that amount, that 10 million. And then there's the extra question. Whether it's just lectures, or this student uses it in some way, e.g. financial, or is that just the amount of hours he can use in addition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u71	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u72	As far as dynamics are concerned, as I said, we are in the process of clearing this second edition, so this amount was granted at the level of... We had a security of 10 million, but two more years, i.e. 2020 and 2021, this is the COVID period, so we are also aware that not all funds could be used. That also involves a second question from the Member. This appropriation is intended primarily to cover what is related to the didactics. Let us remember that they are mainly students of the Academy of Physical Education, but not only. Therefore, these appropriations are intended to meet those commitments which students have accepted when starting a given academic year. Let me remind you that these commitments relate to the number of exercises and lectures not only, but to the ECTS points obtained. And so, once again, we want this kind of support, and we're only talking about one very specific program here, making it easier and secure for these students to complete their studies in a normal, timely manner. In addition, you are aware that academic sports unions receive support from both the Ministry of Education and Science, but also large companies, corporations, companies of the Treasury. Here this support has a character relating directly to sports camps or to participation in specific, I would say, sports events. This money doesn't go into the student's pocket individually, it's for the university, for the organization of the study program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u73	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Frederick Kapinos and Kazimierz Gołojuch will ask a question about victory in the EU's twinning competition for Serbia, a consortium of agricultural institutions from Poland, Lithuania and France. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will answer this question, Mr Ryszard Bartosik. I ask Mr Fryderyk Kapinos to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u74	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! At the end of January this year. information about the winning by the consortium of agricultural institutions from Poland, Lithuania and France of the EU twinning competition for Serbia appeared. Our Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is the leader of this consortium. For many years, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture as the largest paying agency for the common agricultural policy in Europe has been working with its counterparts in many Member States. For several years, ARiMR has been actively involved in the transfer of experience from the implementation of agricultural policy instruments, which have been used inter alia. in projects carried out in Croatia, Moldova or Azerbaijan. For the first time, ARiMR is the leader of such a project. This is undoubtedly the success of the Polish paying agency, for which he has been working for many years through a number of initiatives of an international nature, organizing conferences and workshops. Poland is seen as the leader of the transformation process, which has made good use of time and resources from the European Union for agricultural and rural change. I therefore wanted to ask the Minister the following questions. What are the assumptions of the twin cooperation programme dedicated to Serbia, and how long will it take to implement this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u75	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u76	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, together with its partners from Lithuania and France, will carry out the project that you mentioned in your question. The Agency is the project leader in the consortium with the agricultural institutions of Lithuania and France, won the competition in the EU's twinning competition for Serbia. The competitor was a consortium composed of Austria, Italy and Hungary paying agencies. High Izbo! Recently, not so long ago we were learning the common agricultural policy. Today it is lucky that we can share our experiences with others, which is why the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has entered the competition, which is worth €1.8 million and will be implemented by our agency. Twin and twin cooperation is a programme funded by the European Commission, which allows candidate countries to receive substantive assistance from countries already members of the European Union. Such projects are mainly carried out by conducting specialized training courses and study trips. This project consists of several modules. It is a great success for our agency and employees who have been preparing for this project for a long time. January 13th this year There have been hearings before representatives of the European Commission and Serbia of two competing consortia, and as I said before, the consortium, whose leader is Poland, has won in this competition and the programme will be run by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture together with the paying agencies of France and Lithuania. Within the framework of a project lasting 2 years, the Serbs are to receive comprehensive knowledge of the functioning of agricultural markets in the European Union needed for their organisation in Serbia, regulation or administrative solutions. The European Commission has allocated €1.8 million for this. The start of the project is planned for April this year. I would like to say, by the way, that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture does not take part in such a competition for the first time because it already has experience in other projects. She has so far participated in five projects, but has never been a leader before. These projects concerned Moldova, Azerbaijan and Croatia twice. The Agency's experts were also involved in the project for Romania. We are also politically involved in this way, in addition to substantive activity, because our position in the Balkan region is increasing significantly. I would like to congratulate the great success of President Halina Szymańska, but also all the employees who were involved in preparing for this project. The project will be implemented in several modules. It'll take two years. These modules include: strengthening the fruit and vegetables sector, strengthening the wine sector, animal products sector, strengthening the administrative capacity for the sugar sector, creating the conditions for the efficient creation and functioning of the producer organisation (the Bell) and creating the conditions for the efficient creation and functioning of market investment mechanisms. I am pleased that our agency can share its experience with Serbia, with a country that aspires to enter the structure of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It should be stressed that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is the largest paying agency in Europe. It takes many initiatives by transferring its experience to other countries. I would like to thank the management and employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture at this point for their huge commitment to Polish agriculture and international advice. I would like to ask here: Could the Minister expand our knowledge of how the international Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has so far been working together with other such institutions in the Member States of the European Union? And second question: How does the Minister feel that cooperation (the bell) should take place on the international stage of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as a leader in agricultural and rural change in this part of Europe? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So far we have worked with the paying agencies of other European Union countries and participated, not as a leader, but as a consortium participant, in several projects. So it was a very good opportunity and opportunity to prepare for the project as a leader. These experiences have been very useful to us. We have the biggest paying agency in Europe. Our experience for Eastern European countries, from the Balkans, is priceless because the structure of farms in Poland and these countries is very similar. So we can share our experiences. And we have something to share, because the use of European funds in agriculture, funds distributed by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, is at the highest level - 100%. These resources are always well spent. The whole program will also rely on study visits, so the Serbs, their institutions will often be able to host here. I would like to stress that we have won this project with the second consortium. That consortium had already had much, much more, experience. So this is a huge opportunity for our Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I'm sure this opportunity will be well taken advantage of. By the way, in addition to cooperation with Serbia, a country aspiring to the European Union, during this project we will be able to exchange our experience with France, a country which has already had many years of experience in the implementation of the common agricultural policy, as well as with the Lithuanians. This is an important project, because we know the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture mainly here (The Bell), in the country, at national level, and this time this agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will be able to show its achievements internationally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u81	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Krystyna Skowrońska and Krzysztof Piątkowski will ask a question about the removal of obvious government errors regarding the payment of shielding allowances for the increase in electricity and gas prices. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Piotr Dziadzio. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u82	Thank you, Marshal. Yeast, inflation, high gas and electricity bills for residents and entrepreneurs and obvious errors - evident errors in the implementation of the rules and referring even to the desire to pay cover allowances, which the government should remove by ordering local governments to pay these cover allowances. What kind of mistakes are they? These are organizational errors. Local governments weren't prepared, they weren't talking to local governments. These are financial errors. No money was transferred. So how could the proposals be accepted by 31 January - you have set such a date - if there was no money behind it? After all, you know very well that this is a violation of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Give and talk to local authorities about these things. There are legal issues. After all, today local governments have to collect complete documentation to pay such cover allowances, because there are income criteria for whom such a cover supplement can be paid. And you didn't do it, you didn't prepare it. Without any changes to the rules, there will be no chance to do so. You simply have to correct your errors, remove these obvious errors regarding the payment of cover additives. That's what local governments are asking for. What you have proposed is 2% of the amount as compensation for this procedure, in the opinion It's not enough for local governments. The terms you have indicated are, according to the local authorities, too short. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A request not to pay in two instalments, but maybe in one right, is a demand of the residents. So the question is, when are you finally going to talk fairly to the local authorities and when are you going to remove the mistakes that the local authorities are talking about so that they can pay out the allowances you have prepared during the expensive period of high inflation? Just as the Polish Load was a bubble and had errors, so this solution is not deprived of a series of errors. We're waiting for a fix.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, welcome and welcome at the same time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I would briefly like to comment on the allegations made by the honourable Member in respect of the protective allowance and the implementation of the payments. Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the supplement is properly prepared, properly communicated with local governments and local authorities should be properly prepared to fulfil these obligations. This is the highest support so far, which we provide directly to people who may be affected by the problem of costs. The amount allocated to this allowance is 4 billion. [[But let's talk procedure, procedure.]] Okay, I'll tell you. At the moment, I just wanted to make a brief introduction so that we know what the amount is and how many of our citizens are involved. This concerns almost 7 million citizens. As far as interest is concerned, there is a great deal of interest in this addition, as you probably know. From the point of view of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as I said, the law has been properly prepared, and two regulations have already been implemented, which function, which really define the conditions for granting the additive and the procedures in this regard. And now, in answer to these doubts, the points which Mrs said would point out, I would refer to the fact that the municipalities, although these provisions are very precise, both those relating to the law and those relating to the implementing acts which I have said, namely the regulations, have here comments on the implementation. The Ministry of Climate and Environment, in order to resolve all these doubts, has created a guide for municipalities in which all these issues have been described and characterized. We have a full dialogue with municipalities, we inform you how to conduct this procedure. We believe that this act, which was introduced by the Ministry of Climate and Environment, is absolutely feasible. All deadlines are set and the voivodships, in coordination with local governments, pay the funds. So I don't really see the problem here, the Ministry of Climate and Environment doesn't see the problem, the danger of not realizing it, the basis for having the doubts that you have put forward here. Most municipalities... in terms of resources, of course, there are always insufficient resources, while 2% In our view, the value of the funding that has been earmarked for the operation of this project is absolutely sufficient. This is just a matter of opening up, a good organisation, an efficient organisation and an effective payment of the allowances we are talking about, so that citizens can quickly benefit from this. It is possible to pay, as defined by the Act, within one time limit, if the applications have been submitted by 31 January and if this occurs at a later date - such a later date this is 30 October - also the funds will be paid before 2 December 2022. We don't see any problems here, these are organizational issues. According to us, the project is properly prepared and meets social expectations. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u85	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski. You're welcome. That's a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u86	Ladies and gentlemen! Given the spectacular failure of your flagship legislative bubble, which turned out to be Polish Load, it was difficult to expect you to write such a simple project without errors - a project of anti-inflationary support for the poorest inhabitants of our country. I will ignore obvious issues such as the difficulties of citizens to understand and fill 12 pages of the proposal. I will disregard the fact that the granting of allowances in the case of applications submitted before the end of August is to decide on the income from 2 years ago. However, I have a question about the follow-up, and you have also said this. You have entrusted the task of handling requests to local governments, and you have not provided them with adequate financial and legal resources. The number of potential beneficiaries is very large, and the minister said it was 7 million farms. Over half of the requests required due to the ambiguities of the form contain formal errors. Does the government intend (the bell) to meet the demands of local governments and, however, to correct this legislative bubble, or, as I understand it from the Minister, do you not intend to do absolutely nothing? I would very much ask you to answer our questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u88	Interpellation was also made in this case. I'm counting on specific answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u89	Thank you very much. I kindly ask the Minister to respond. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Piotr Dziadzio, corresponds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to say this again, answering here the doubts that have been indicated. To make it easier to fill out a form that we think is a simple form, it is not a difficult form, we have additionally prepared an instructional material. In this respect, there is a video that you can play and see exactly how you can fill out this form without any major problems. As far as facilitation is concerned, of course at every stage, where we see that these facilitations are necessary, we introduce them. Even though we have modified the regulation very quickly, which makes it easier for us, it makes it easier for citizens to complete or submit this proposal. I am talking about changing one word in a law that was adopted on 26 January 2020. In the regulation, we respond immediately to this need for change and change the word that is currently in force or was in force in the previous regulation for inclusion in the notification. This is about the Central Office of Building Emissivity. We see this error and it is necessary to verify, so we correct it immediately. But it's in this substantive area. I think I have answered the questions that I have asked you. Thank you very much. [[We'll have it in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. Question on negotiations and agreement closing the Polish-Czech dispute about the Turów mine in the context of energy security of Poland, prepared by Members of the Law and Justice: Barbara Bartus, Mr Grzegorz Lork, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Mrs Elżbieta Duda and Mr Marek Suski - addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The first question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u92	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The question about the Turów mine and about the Polish-Czech agreement as part of the current questions today appears a second time, because this is a very important topic. I am pleased that even the opposition has decided that this agreement is very important, and I am pleased that it has already been recognised in this House that this agreement has been reached, because this is a very important agreement. Minister! Thank you for the answer I have heard so far and which has come to this House. But I would also like you to extend your statement to determine how much energy security of Poland will increase after signing this agreement, because this agreement is not only a matter of ending the dispute, there are many elements. There is also a very important second thread - the employee thread. After all, the mine and the power plant employ a lot of people. As Euro MP Anna Zalewska says, there are even 60,000. persons employed in mines, in power plants, in affiliated companies. This is very important, these are the largest employers in the region. Imagine if we did the TSUE and shut down this mine, how many people would lose their jobs, how much unemployment benefits they would have to pay. And there's something that would have happened, just like it happened in the '90s. - people who would lose their jobs would most likely leave Poland. So, to this labour thread, Minister, if you would point out how important it is that this agreement has been signed that the mine and the power plant will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u93	Thank you very much, Member. I kindly ask the Minister of Climate and Environment, Ms Anna Moscow, to respond. At the same time, I would like to join in the thanks already made by the Member. Really, congratulations, Minister. You're welcome. I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! This is our common success and so this success must be treated. I have only reached a few elements at the last moment, but this is the success of the entire government and the entire team of the United Right, and we have no doubt about it. Even looking at the process of creating this contract and the amount of details that are included there - it was a laborious work, a monthly work of drawing up detailed elements of this agreement. It's hard to imagine what would have happened if the mine had been closed. That's never been the script. In our documents we do not have such a scenario, because we have never seriously or in any other way considered it. Probably also if you asked my Czech friend, and earlier a Czech colleague, a minister of the environment, if they had made such a decision in their country... I am convinced that no responsible politician, Minister, Prime Minister would have made such a decision. In the case of Poland, this mine is up to 7% of our energy security. This is network security not only in that region, but in all Poland. Here there were various opposition politicians who were calling in an absolutely irresponsible way to close the mine immediately. Too bad one thing didn't happen that none of these politicians went to the mine, to the power plant, stood face-to-face in front of all the people who work there - there's 5,000 employees. People directly, 60,000. people involved in the provision of services in this whole supply chain, so that the mine and power plant function - and did not say: Please, pack up, there will be no electricity in a moment, there will be no heating in the house, we will close hospitals, respirators, nothing will work, I don't know what to do, maybe move out, maybe some other scenario. By the way, when it comes to the mine, it's a huge environmental disaster, because it's important, too. There is such an idea that the mine can be like a TV remote control, puppy, puppy, push, turn it on and off. [[Voice from the room: Button.]] This is another totally wrong idea. Each mine in its environmental decision, concession has a whole plan to close the mine, respecting the environment, respecting the water resources. This mine also has a plan, like any other mining entity, which operates in Poland and in the world. So here the likely goal - because it is difficult to judge from the perspective of the rationality of this goal, but that is in the justification - was this environmental goal. Surely, the implementation of this decision, apart from the disastrous and unacceptable social effect, would have a disastrous environmental effect. And here, in this pretend-dialogue, environmentalists were somehow absolutely unable to generate their own expertise and show what it would do - because the level of this disaster would be incomparable to the effects we can even imagine. As of today, we have a dismissed complaint and a settled dispute, not only temporarily. The Czechs' earlier proposals were: pay, for the moment we are closing the dispute. They didn't remove the cause completely, and they didn't guarantee that this dispute wouldn't come up again in the future, with some new money, some kind of blackmail. This agreement is so detailed as to the monitoring parameters, as to the manner in which the investment was carried out, as to the involvement of the Polish party on the Czech side and the Czech side on the Polish side in the execution of these investments, that it does not leave the elements of ambiguous, vague, questionable, potentially causing a dispute in the future. Moreover, the agreement sanctiones the way in which disputes are resolved. As of today, the Czechs could not reach an agreement in their opinion, while these attempts by the Czech Republic were not much and they were not reliable. After one of the meetings, after that February meeting of that year, the Czech side no longer wanted to continue the talks. This agreement discourages any dispute at higher levels. The level of experts addressed by the parties must first be used. Then we have external experts from the agreed list of institutions. Then there are representatives on an ongoing basis appointed to perform and monitor the contract. There's still a cross-border transformation committee. This committee consists of representatives of local governments at the level of voivodship, powiats and communes. It monitors and prepares the transformation process for the entire region in an absolute dialogue. In the end, if one of the parties still considers that something has not been done about this agreement... If we believe that the Czechs do not provide us enough data on the capture of Uhelná water, we do not receive data on time, we do not know about water permits, we are in dispute. Then the Court, according to the agreement, says: such a party and such party should do both. It is only (the bell) that, if that party fails to do so, the applicant may return to the Court and request the imposition of a flat-rate penalty, strictly specified in European documents, without the right to rule on the Court of Justice. Potentially, they are about 2 years from the date of the dispute until the Court's possible action. Thus, in relation to the earlier situation, when the Czechs, as you can see, could at any time go to an insane Court and receive the judgment they received, the contract secures the earlier stages of dispute settlement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. With a supplementary question by Mr Grzegorz Lorek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Unfortunately, many politicians from our country wanted to close this mine very quickly, as if they did not realize that in the case of opencast mines such a process could take up to 10 years. I would like to tell the High House that I had the pleasure of working in the Bogatynia. I know a lot of great engineers who work there all their life, their dedication and their effort. I wanted to add that in Bogatynia there is no such work facility, there is not even an indirect work facility, so shutting down power plants and mines is a huge problem for this region. Minister! I wanted to ask how much the Polish state would have to pay - I am talking about energy costs - in case the power plant is shut down and the mine closes immediately. Of course, I realize that this is technically impossible, but how much would we have to pay as a Polish country when it comes to this shortage of power and (The bell) of employment, in order to meet this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u98	Thank you so much for that question. Of course, regardless of what we would have done and how we might have obtained coal or otherwise tried to secure this particular region, these activities would have been largely ineffective. It is impossible to replace a fully functioning organism, such as a mine and a power plant operating for the needs of the whole region, but also the whole of Poland, with something that would be a quick solution. There is no such RES, there are no such conventional sources, so this scenario was assumed to be impossible in every parameter. If we were to look at the potential social impact, the potential economic impact and the lost benefits... Let me remind you that coal still accounts for 70% our energy base. Let's imagine we're shutting this mine down from the entire system. It's also about network security. These potential losses were estimated at 3 billion. However, we did not estimate here the environmental element, i.e. the potential impact, in terms of the environment and these environmental costs, calculated in financial terms. I will yet refer to this social thread that you spoke about. As soon as the contract was signed, we visited the mine, met with the employees. They told us what their everyday life was like in the course of this dispute. This is also an additional argument for the fact that this agreement should be signed. Ecologists protesting 5-10 people - small groups, but still - at the entrance to the mine with big banners: Close the mine! Requests to the petition committee for closure of the mine. The voices of the opposition: yes, we must close - yet this opposition, which has good contact with those who make such decisions in the European institutions, so if it says something, then from a social perspective it is thinking: they probably know something, there may be another sentence, maybe some other actions that will lead to the closure of the mine. So from the perspective of people working there, their families, the whole environment and society, this social damage, actually every day expressing itself... They went to the mine and watched if it was open or they could work. Looking also at the new jobs, the motivation, the whole psychological element, which, in this whole process, I think, is extremely important with such a number of people, you can see that this dispute has caused very much damage, unnecessary escalation of emotions and social harm. I think that society and the Court and the Czechs will not forget it, because it was weeks of stress and absolute uncertainty. Importantly, our assurances were still serious: we will not pay and we will not close. We have not once withdrawn from these declarations, consistently sticking to our position, which, of course, has proved to be effective and justified. What is still important in these Polish-Czech relations, we are now in front of the Czech Presidency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Presidency has a very important role to play. Turów is certainly not the most important topic of our relationship. It's a good thing this dispute was settled. I will only briefly mention the conclusion on Twitter of this agreement by Czech entities, because the Czech Government - yesterday I saw the V4 with the Minister responsible for energy and the economy - is being attacked for this agreement. This is a pretty interesting tweet, because there are different voices here, whether this agreement is legitimate. It is strongly promoted by the government of former Prime Minister Babiš and Minister Brabc. So there was such a tweet: Fiala says to Morawiecki's Prime Minister: listen, for 15 years we cannot terminate this agreement, for which Prime Minister Morawiecki says: no, five and the end, to which Fiala says: well, let there be a compromise: five. So this shows that this agreement is a very good agreement for the Polish party, and we are proud to sign this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the implementation of the flagship family policy programmes introduced by the Government of Law and Justice will be considered at this session of the Sejm, for example. Family 500+ ¿For life, good start, ¿Mama 4+ž, additional benefit of 13th pension, and a new, implemented within the framework of the Polish Order of provision of family care capital, the presentation of which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. Please, Madame, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! One of the main pillars of each country's development policy should be family policy and family policy, supporting its development, protection being the trademark of the United Right. Before the Law and Justice came to power, problems of Polish families were neglected, especially when it comes to raising children or caring for the elderly. Polish families lived harder, which was detrimental to the whole country. And we must not forget that today. For Poles today it is obvious that they use programs addressed to families. This is the kind of family policy that Poles expect: a comprehensive, which is focused on many areas of family life, and a consistent, lively response to current problems and needs of families. Each next program for families is a success measured by the level of satisfaction of the recipients. The family package included programmes such as the 500+ Ż family flagship programme, which was created to support and stabilise Polish families. It is a huge investment not only in the future of children themselves, but also in the future of Poland and in the future of all of us. For law and justice, family comes first. Thanks to the program Family 500+ ¿ Polish poverty ceased to have a child's face, and one of the biggest disgraces of the Third Polish Republic - hungry children - we sent to history. Families received more than PLN 176 billion, thanks to which parents and children can afford a holiday trip, the purchase of the necessary equipment or the necessary articles or, finally, the little pleasures that were once out of their reach. Another programme is a good start, 300 PLN school expedition, thanks to which purchases of equipment or a school suitcase for the new school year are no longer a challenge and the existing inequalities between students have been eliminated. Thanks to the programme, Mom 4+ has really supported people who have devoted themselves to raising four and more children and have not been able to develop their pension rights. Previously, they had no right to benefits and lived on the poverty line. Family policies of the Government of Law and Justice also support those families who expect to be born or raise children with disabilities. For them, we have created a Lifelong Programme with double funding for the period 2022-2026. We support the development of care institutions for the youngest children, showing that much more can be done than our predecessors have done. The Youth+Programme in 2015 is only 84 000. childcare facilities for children under the age of 3. Today it's close to 211,000. care facilities and a budget of PLN 450 million. The family are also young people entering into adult life and starting their work. Thanks to the programme, without PIT for young people, they can enjoy more payout and implement their plans. Since the entry into force of the programme they have gained nearly PLN 6 billion. The family are also seniors, who we pay much attention to, because support for older people is an extremely important element of social policy of Law and Justice. We restored the early retirement age, extended by the Platform and the PSL, and addressed additional financial support to seniors. And this is where the numbers speak. 36 billion PLN last year went to senior wallets. That is 10 times more than the Platform and PSL government allocated to them in 2015 35 billion for nearly 10 million pensioners under the statutory guaranteed thirteenth pension and 46 billion PLN of total payout from thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. In 2015, we found 99 senior houses for only 2,800 people. Today, over 25,000. Seniors have over 1000 houses and clubs at their disposal. We have created a 75+ and 75+ programme, and during the pandemic - the Solidarity Corps for Senior Support. We meet the needs of people with disabilities. Last year we allocated 32 billion PLN for them, while in 2015 it was only 9 billion PLN. In response to the current needs of the Polish society, the government has prepared further projects, including family-owned care capital and a retirement without tax expected by seniors. It will not be paid by pensioners who receive up to 2.5 thousand benefits. gross zloty. Each programme aimed at families, which supports their development and improves the quality of life, improves the functioning of the whole society and also constitutes a specific flywheel for the local economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The planned expenditure in the state budget for family support and social policy of PLN 112 billion in this year. show that the Law and Justice are the guarantee of a consistent and developmental family-friendly policy. [[Bravo!]] I kindly ask the Minister to bring forward the current state of implementation of programmes dedicated to Polish families with the social benefits resulting from their implementation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u101	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you kindly to answer the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the subject of today's information, so important for Polish families and for Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you for letting us talk about families and, above all, sum up the last six years. For more than six years, listening to people's needs, we have consistently changed many areas of the state's functioning to a better level. Efficient governance, including changes in the public finance system, has allowed for the financial resources that have become a source of funding for the many social programmes that you have already mentioned. Before 2015, there was no money for it. Most of all, the conditions of society have changed. The difficult situation that we have been fighting for two years, the Coronavirus epidemic, has not slowed down the implementation of these programmes. Not only have we maintained all the social programmes launched before the COVID-19 pandemic, but we also develop them and enrich them with further instruments. All this despite the huge expenses associated with the need to protect the life and health of Poles in the face of epidemics, as well as saving the Polish economy from a deep crisis that could reverse Poland's development for decades. Under these extremely difficult conditions, the social programmes implemented by our government have become a specific anti-crisis shield supporting those who, without state intervention, would most likely not be able to cope with themselves or their situation would deteriorate radically. We have developed support mechanisms for many social groups: on the one hand seniors, on the other hand families with children. A long-term, consistent pro-family policy is above all a challenge. This is the policy we have implemented and we will implement. This year alone, in 2022, expenditure on the flagship programmes of Family 500+¿, good start, that for the new provision of family care capital is PLN 62 billion. On the other hand, total expenditure on social policy is nearly PLN 112 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! We talk a lot in public space about the 500+z family programme. First of all, it is a program that changed the face of Polish families. It's powerful support. It's an investment in family. As part of this program, more than PLN 176 billion were sent to Polish families since 1 April 2016. The program was evolving, evolving. Today it is a universal program, without an income criterion. Parents who have children under the age of 18 receive this benefit, collect 500 PLN per month. It's about 6.5 million children. When the program was introduced, the opposition in public space criticized it many times. She claimed that women would be declining from the labour market, that, above all, the programme was poorly prepared. The program showed its effectiveness and changed the face of the Polish family, as I said. It is also worth looking at data related to the labour market and the activity of women in the labour market. In the third quarter of 2021, the rate of activity of women aged 20 to 64 was 71.4% in Poland. When we take this indicator from the last decade to data from the European Union, it turns out that the increase in women's activity in Poland was much higher. Also in the third quarter of 2019, when we were fighting the economic crisis, when the economic situation was affected by COVID-19, in Poland the professional activity of women increased by 3.2%. , and in the European Union, repeatedly invoked by the opposition, only by 1.4%. So this is primarily a program that helps support the family. It is worth mentioning - and I also refer you to this - publications (Dzinek) of the German Institute of Labour Economics, which show a very positive impact of the benefit of the Family 500+ ¿ on families in Poland. The 500+ family programme, as I said, is evolving. This year, applications shall be submitted only by electronic means. Applications for more than 1800 000 have now been submitted. children. Applications are submitted via the platform of electronic services of the Social Insurance Institution, the empathy system of the family ministry, as well as electronic banking. This primarily improves the process. They are made up of 50% faster than in the same period last year, and taking over the service of this benefit by the Social Insurance Institution, i.e. tangible benefits for the state budget, turned into that we have another new pro-family programme. Following the 500+ family programme, a good start programme was introduced. We know that the beginning of the year, September 1st, so preparation for this beginning, involves specific expenditure in families. And the Law and Justice government, listening to the needs, introduced a good startup programme, 300 PLN as an expedition for the start of the school year. So far, i.e. from 2018 to 2021, the budget of this programme is over PLN 5300 million. The funding was used by 4400 thousand. children per year. This year, of course, the budget is reserved - 1350 million. And like I said, another witness. First of all, we have a well-thought-out family policy. We must introduce instruments that will allow us to get out of the trap of low childhood. Young people in research have repeatedly shown that even stronger support is needed for childcare up to the age of 3. Therefore, since 1 January 2022, we have introduced new support for parents who have a second and another child, family care capital. In the period from 12 months of age to 36 months of age, the parent has 12 thousand at his disposal. zł. And it's up to him to decide how he's gonna take it, or for a year at 1 000. PLN or 2 years after 500 PLN. So far, more than 440 thousand have been submitted. conclusions, and in 2022 we expect, according to analyses, 615 thousand. The benefit is carried out by the Social Insurance Institution, applications are submitted only by electronic means, the payment of these benefits will begin in a moment. Another backup. For your information, it is worth knowing that some parents, actually a large part, 87% , selects the collection of benefits for a year of 1 000. zł. 3 billion zlotys are secured in the state budget thanks to the fact that we have decided that the benefit of the Family 500+ž will be implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. Thus, above all, implementation through automation, improvement of processes. The resolution of the Family Care Capital Act also provides for further support for families.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u103	Minister, you're welcome... Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: First of all, it includes a surcharge for the stay of a child in an institution such as a nursery, a children's club or as regards the day care provider. This support will start on 1 April this year with an equalization from 1 January. For this funding up to PLN 400 will be available for those parents who do not take family care capital. It is a strong support for child care up to the age of 3 that meets the expectations of parents. Thank you, Minister. Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: The Youth+ Programme, which was developing... Minister... Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...whose year-to-year budget was getting bigger. For 6 years of rule by law and justice, the United Right has invested over PLN 2 billion in creating new places. Today we have over 211,000 of them. When we took over the government in 2015, there were around 84,000. The program will continue to develop as we have announced. First of all, we want to create the conditions for local governments to open a nursery in each municipality if necessary. Thank you, Minister. Minister, please, I have already really extended my time, but you will still have the opportunity to speak at the end. Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: We also lean over people's affairs... I'm sure senior policy is a challenge. Here we have the restoration of the retirement age, the valorization of benefits, the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and the changes that are prepared in the tax policy for this year. Our challenge is also to support people, parents and children with disabilities, which is why the budget of the Life Programme is increased to nearly PLN 6 billion, and the activities that are planned are primarily designed to change the situation of families with disabilities. So family policies are important to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, thank you very much. I will still allow the final part to be heard in response to the discussion that will take place. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I'm determining the speaking time - 1.5 minutes. Since many have signed up, and I would like to allow everyone to speak, I ask for discipline. I should warn you that I will exceptionally turn off the microphone after the time has passed, but with a view to making sure that any member who is written can speak. [[Voice from the room: How many minutes?]] I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The pro-family policy of the Government of Law and Justice is at the heart of all policies pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. We are introducing programs and we are credible and consistent in this. I am not going to exchange all these programs, which is why it must have been so long for the Minister to speak, because it is impossible to present within two minutes all the good that has been done in terms of family policies under the rule of law and justice. We presented, as I said, the optics of thinking. We treated family policy as an investment, not as social assistance. I propose such an experiment, ladies and gentlemen. It's 2022, let's move to 2015. There are not all these programs, there is no 500+, there is no 300+, there is no good start. Retired people in your government work for valorization, 3 zlotys, until they die, until they're 67 years old. What does family support look like? What is the credulity, and what is this policy of yours? The voters already assessed your family policy in 2012, 2013, 2014. There is also the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber report, which is a devastating assessment of your policy. And here in such a reality comes the world's pandemic (the bell), a crisis comes. Really use your imagination and tell us how difficult a Polish family would be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, Stop lying. [[Applause]] In 2015, if you don't know, I'll remind you, and I hope the Minister will confirm... By 2015, for these 8 years, we introduced one of the longest maternity and parental leave in Europe. That's one thing. [[Two million children have been excluded from family benefits.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u107	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u108	Secondly, we're the ones who put in free textbooks. Third, paternity leave, we're the ones who introduced it. Fourthly, the Small Man programme, i.e. the contribution, is the Platform and PSL programme. Fourth, kindergarten for a dollar. I can still trade. [[It's moustache.]] But what is most interesting today and what we care about as Members of the opposition is that you do not harm single parents. For example, let me tell you this: I ask the Minister: Is it true or not? We, as the government of the Platform and the PSL, introduced pro-family reliefs: for one child - more than 1,000. zł, for two - more than 2 thousand. PLN, out of three - more than 4 thousand, and out of four children - almost 7 thousand. zł. These were pro-family reliefs introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL government. Minister! Is it true that single parents as a result of this supposedly-order will be harmed today in such a way that they will not be able to deduct on average income the relief they will be able to count off, e.g. A marriage without children? Because marriages with no children will count over 5,000. zł (Bingle) on average income, and single parents - 1500 zł. Don't rob single parents. Bring back the rights they've had for 30 years. Thank you. [[Stop lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u109	Thank you, Member. I ask you, my fellow Member, for peace, for moderation. Let's give it a chance to speak up. Everyone has the right to speak. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! I'm not gonna ask for a 14-year-old pensioner because she's not here this year. I'm gonna ask you about the little guy+s program. This is an initiative by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to support the development of childcare systems up to the age of 3. The project was intended to facilitate the creation of nursery, children's clubs and to provide more attractive conditions for self-employed people working as a daily caretaker. Unfortunately, the programme was not announced in November this year. There's no new recruitment. There is no information on this program. I would very much ask for information when it will be activated. Here was the assurance of the Minister that it would continue. We were all afraid that the Youth+ programme and support for families with young children would be eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Self-glory, self-glory, self-glory. You could say that again. [[Voice from the room: Facts.]] You have to really look at what you're doing. Of course, every government has its own ideas, but what's important is what the results are and what we have. There may be 5 zlotys of valorization, but there are stable prices, prices do not rise and everyone can stand. [[Yeah, I'm sure.]] However, you can give 100 PLN of valorization, and the price will increase by 100%. So let's look at today's energy prices, the prices of goods in stores. Demography was supposed to improve. ¿500+ ¿ - the question is, what happened that... You said here: we give 500+ ¿, demography will improve. Demography hasn't improved. Young people don't have apartments. Today, at this price - who can afford to build an apartment? Retired people. Of course, they're getting some backup. Thirteen was supposed to be, like, 14. [[Anything?]] Yes, my fellow Member. Only if we look at it is the number of pensioners who already meet the poverty criterion increases from year to year, and not declines. That's the truth. [[Applause]] Let's look at the results, and let's not do the math here, and let's not outrun who gave more. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] No. Social policy should be stable, it should be permanent. The previous governments, on the other hand... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish - there was a glass of milk, there were fruits, it was the longest vacation and we could exchange here for hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u113	Thank you, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u114	And what did you do? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u115	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome. I warn you, Mr President, if you interfere with the statements of the Members of the opposition, I will extend their speaking time. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u116	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The situation of people with disabilities is that they want to get up and get out of this wheelchair - says Łukasz Krasoń, traffic expert Poland 2050 for disability issues. But Luke won't get out of the cart because the only part of his body he has power over is his right hand. In the labour market, people with disabilities in Poland, in our country, are the worst in Europe. Only about a third of these people work, and in Europe this is over half. That's $2,000. to each full-time PFRON today is sufficient to cover about half of the employment costs, and even a few years ago it was over 60%. Despite the rise in wages, this amount is still in place. Through the so-called. The Polish Powered Characters lose their rehabilitation reliefs. The same is true of the impact on the rehabilitation fund in sheltered workplaces. Even simple things are out of your league. Yesterday I tried to convince that the funding for the receivers of the new terrestrial television should also cover televisions, because the new standard brings with it a whole range of facilities for the hearing or visually impaired. No effect. Welcome to the real world, that's what he looks like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u117	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u118	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! To begin with, I would like to thank Mrs Joanna Borowiak very much for the fact that there is this current information, and today we can talk about it here. I thank you for this broad statement, although briefly, Minister, because it is a very extensive and very important subject for Law and Justice, but I think it is important for Poland, for Polish families, and this is our future. The Minister spoke about many programs that were introduced for the first time in our legal system, into the state budget, because if we are talking about 500+, he is in the state budget in very high positions, because these are billions of zlotys that flow to Polish families, but there have been... New programs are being developed, but this 500+ flagship programme has been changed since this year: only requests via the Internet will be paid by the Social Security Office, so the cost of service will be reduced and additional revenues for local governments will be deducted. A lot of questions arose on this occasion. There was a big cry from the opposition that it wouldn't work out that there would be a problem with the motion. I have a question for the Minister, because it is already over January, we have February, which means it has already started to function, as well as a good start (the bell) since that year. Are there really problems with applying to the Social Security Office? How many of these proposals have been received so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u119	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish family needs support not only when it is perfect, but above all when something is wrong, when children with disabilities appear, when there is a crisis in the family, when the need is simply real, systemic support, not just financial support. That's why I'm asking about the foster care system. What has been done in the last few years as part of the foster care system? There are still too few foster families, still small children, who are just born, go to institutions, there are still institutional homes to care for little children, still after several months, and even a few years children spend legal suspension, because there are trials in the courts and there is no way to know where parental care will go. I would like the support system to be surrounded by families with domestic violence, so that children are believed and immediately isolated from the oppressors and from the violent, that the child should be placed first, not the integrity of the biological family, so that it is the safety of the child that is essential for domestic violence to be something that the state will fight systematically. But the anti-violence bill is still not updated, and we are still waiting for this amendment. The NIK audit has shown that the Life Programme is being implemented to a very small extent. There are still no social assistants, there is still no reform of the system of ruling, there is still no deinstitutionalisation programme for implementation - these things are simply missing. No judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal (The Bell) and its implementation. There is so much to do and you should talk about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister spoke here about a well-thought-out pro-family policy. I would therefore like to ask three questions. Question one: When will the funds be mobilised under the Youth+ Programme, what will these funds be and will the places that have been created under this programme also be eligible for funding? Question two. The pensioners believed you were going to be 14 years old. It wasn't the first time they believed naively enough, but I have a question: Will there be a fourteen, or will the Minister please contact the President, or are there any work on this matter? [[She was 14 years old.]] And question three. Namely, single parents who raise their children complain that the tax changes introduced since the beginning of 2022 under the government program of Poland Ład deprived them of their possibility of preferential taxation. In a letter to the Minister of Finance, the Ombudsman expressed his opposition to the possibility of joint annual clearance of PITs. The Ombudsman called on the Minister of Finance to initiate legislative work in order to restore the previous regulation. Since the Minister has fled, I have a request to the Minister to determine whether these works have been initiated. Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]] [[This is a different mode, this interpellation consists of a question, and this is a debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u124	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A resolution of the Council of Ministers amending the resolution on the so-called. a comprehensive support programme for families. The basic question is: Why was the draft amendment not submitted for public consultation, including with disabled persons, which in the opinion of many experts is an infringement of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? None of these consultations It is even more surprising that, after 5 years, in November 2021, the controllers of NIK left no dry thread on this program. In this situation, it would appear that you will benefit from the opinion of the people responsible. In this respect, I think I will be welcomed by the lovely President Urszula Ruseck, who in her speech drew attention to the importance of the Supreme Audit Chamber's control. And the other thing. The most important question of pensioners this year: Could the Minister indicate the date when the 14th pension will enter the pension account? If you know it won't work, I'd like to hear the answer to why. That's probably what's interesting about a lot of retired people who voted for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u126	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, many families have changed. High inflation, which ruins wallets, chaotic legal changes - really, to envy such a situation. All these programmes that the Minister spoke about are present, but so what if Law and Justice ruined you so much that the cost of living outweighs the funds received from these programmes. Retirement and pension valorisation rates - it was the Minister who said that last time - could be about 6.2%. But let me remind you that inflation at the end of December was 8.6%. It's supposed to reach as high as 9.5% in January. That means the retirees and the pensioners are really gonna lose it. For a person who may receive a pension, a pension of approximately 2 000. zł per month, that means he will lose 800 zł a year. Let each of us answer the question of whether 800 zlotys in a wallet is less good or bad. I think it's wrong, but the minister says it's a good thing. If employees do not receive an increase and inflation stays at this level, they will all lose one salary in real terms per year. Is that good or bad? I don't think so. The question is, what does the Minister think? There's a bill in your Marshal's freezer that restores families - where a parent raises a child alone - to be able to settle together. In the case of multiple 4+ families, if the child receives a scholarship, the whole family will lose PIT/0. Is it a good approach to families that you don't accept such projects? The question is, Minister, are you able to take a step forward and convince your club to the good ideas of our circle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u127	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u128	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, Law and Justice, preparing for elections, prepared a specific program in which the family was centred, and Poles trusted us. We prepared a similar programme in 2019, continuing our efforts to support families, and the Poles once again trusted us because we have a concrete strategy and we are implementing it. We do not need to look under the table, it is visible and is being implemented. It is a programme aimed at supporting families, creating good conditions for their development, which the Minister and the Members spoke of here, but it is also a programme to support families in difficult situations of life. Such difficult moments may be when we learn that a disabled child will appear in our family, when pregnancy problems arise or when seniors are experienced with many diseases. We remember those days when seniors didn't buy drugs because they just couldn't afford it. Therefore, the government introduced e.g. 75+zh programme, for which we spent more than 800 million PLN in 2020. 2.4 million seniors used these drugs. More than 70 million packages were released free of charge. Pregnant women can also count on a subsidy scheme to buy medicines. Currently, more than 397 preparations (The Bell) are financed by the state budget. An additional diet for pregnant women is also funded. There is also additional funding for perinatal and hospital care. More than 30% increase in spending on these activities. These are the concrete actions that are being taken and will continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u129	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Life Programme - I would like to refer to it. The family has the right to unlimited access to palliative and hospice care for children. I received an e-mail from Mrs. Patricia: I am writing to you about my daughter Maia. He's only a year old. She's very sick. Congenital genetic defect confirmed by genetic research. Krabby's syndrome, global leukodystrophy. We were under the care of the Zachodniopomorskie Hospice for Children and Adults in Szczecin, but a few days ago we moved to Lubuskie Voivodeship. After previous arrangements between hospices we were to be taken care of by a hospice in Zielona Góra, which is also written on the discharge from the Szczecin hospice. Now it turns out they won't accept us. Hospice in Gorzów Wielkopolski has difficulty answering the phone, calling is bordering on miracle. After a preliminary conversation with them, I learned that they do not drive more than 30 km from Gorzow. I am writing to you asking: Where should I go to get help for my sick daughter who requires hospital care? E.g. is treated with epilepsy, four-pinal spasticity, does not properly swallow saliva, which needs to be pulled away, is fed by the stomach probe PEG. I can't imagine being left unattended by any home hospice for my daughter. Specialized saliva suction equipment is required, which was politely loaned to me for a period of 2 weeks from the Szczecin hospice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of situations like this. This is one of many examples of support and long-awaited families to help in such difficult, tragic situations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u131	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, All government programs aimed at families, people with disabilities, seniors or families raising children are important, but in recent years they have been crushed by expensive, high inflation and health system failure. The tax system, in which I think the Minister also participated in the so-called. Polish Łódź deformed state aid to families. A regression system was used instead of a progressive system. Total support for the fourth child in the family, taking into account all benefits, benefit 500+, 300+, tax credits for raising children, will be 4.6 times higher in the case of families with income above 21 750 per month compared to the poorest families without income. In the first case, this aid will amount to 3148 and in the case of the poorest it will amount to 690. Minister, work has begun on the change of the so-called. It's a polish deal. Will the resort here propose changes, including changes in the case of (the bell) single parents with regard to the tax system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Law and Justice. [[I don't think so or not.]] God, I'm sorry, Coalition Poland. But you're welcome. [[Voice from the room: To the PiS...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u134	There are two Nationals in the PiS. [[Voice from the room: There will be a third.]] Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a criticism of an opposition member, it is a data of the CSO. As long as you sometimes say about the NIK reports that President Banas is blocking and that these reports may be different, I think the GUS really represents the situation. As regards the extent of economic poverty in Poland in 2020, there was an increase in the percentage of extremely poor people from around 4%. in 2019 up to around 5% with a clear decrease in household expenditure. The CSO regularly calculates and publishes indicators on the extent of economic poverty - so-called. poverty rate in Poland - based on household budget surveys. If we take into account the absolute changes in poverty between 2020 and 2019 expressed in percentage points, it will appear that the highest increase in extreme poverty rates has been recorded for farmers' households, by less than 4 percentage points, and for non-profit farms, by almost 3 percentage points. To a lesser extent, by about 2 percentage points, the proportion of the poor among the pensioner's holdings has increased, as well as among farms with at least three children under the age of 18. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So two percentage points have also increased the extent of extreme poverty among villagers...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u136	...and the smallest cities of less than 20,000. residents. This is almost 15% among farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No other moment of Polish history was abundant in such powerful support for families as during the current rule of law and justice. Never before have Polish people and Poles been able to feel that Poland and its institutions really care about citizens. I therefore ask you to present what percentage of GDP Poland spends on social and pro-family programmes. What are similar programmes in Eastern European countries? Within the framework of the changes introduced in the pro-family programmes, benefits were paid to the family - good start, family 500+¿ - and in the area of family care capital only to bank accounts. Is this a problem? And politicians from opposition, from PO, PSL, here so caring can only be said that under the PO-PSL regime in a large part of families there were only poverty and poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u139	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If it's so good, why is it so bad? And why it's so bad, we know not from the family minister's information, but from the reports. One of these reports is the report on poverty in Poland in 2021. This report was prepared by the Noble Package, which knows exactly what the data is and what the needs of Poles and Poles are. Ladies and gentlemen, over 2 million Poles live in extreme poverty in Poland, live for less than 20 PLN per day and the number of people in extreme poverty has increased by 400 thousand in 2020. And this Polish poverty, ladies and gentlemen, did not miss the Polish seniors. When's the 14th retirement? In the election year. Then Jarosław Kaczyński will come and say: 14 permanent retirement. It's a non-choice year and there's no 14th pension. [[You didn't have an election year, or...]] [[Voice from the room: And you were looking for... buried...]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you will not shout this Polish poverty, because what also increases in Poland? The debt of seniors and seniors is increasing. According to data at the end of 2021, the National Debt Register has 350,000. pensioners and pensioners are in debt for 6180 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the problem. Minister, how are you going to handle this? What is the government going to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u141	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u142	...about the debt of Polish pensioners? This debt does not allow for normal functioning in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u143	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u144	This festival of praise about what you're doing for your family has exposed the weakness of your social, pro-family policy. She's all about giving money. [[Mrs...]] The money is needed, but it's far enough. Because if families are doing so well, why is the number of suicide attempts and suicides dramatically increasing in all age groups? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The number of children in 2021 was 77%. more suicide attempts. The number of suicides among the elderly has also increased over the age of 80, probably the beneficiaries of the 13th and 14th pensions. If it's so good, then why doesn't psychological help, psychotherapy, practically exist? If you care so much about your families, why do pregnant women and mothers die of pregnancy complications that doctors are afraid to deal with because of the shameful judgment of the Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska? [[But that's a lie! But you're lying now.]] What do you do to keep the Poles from dying in childbirth? It must not be forgotten that women who die most often are orphaning their children born earlier. [[You're lying!]] [[Voice from the room: Please don't lie!]] If it is so good, why do children and women not receive enough support when they experience violence at home? For ideological reasons, you do not implement the provisions of the European Anti-violence Convention, which guarantees support for women and children in the form of vocational training, financial support or prevention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u145	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you a few questions that appear in the correspondence that reaches us, to our mailboxes, but also to our conversations. First of all, is the resort considering the value of the benefit 500+? At the time it was first granted, it had a completely different value. However, inflation changes its proportions and therefore the question is, are there any work carried out in the Ministry on this matter? Secondly, correspondence repeatedly raises a question from mothers who had four children, but worked all the time. Therefore, they have worked out their pension benefits or will work them in the near future and show some kind of inequality, because mothers who had four children and had no job opportunities receive special pension benefits. So the question is whether, I would say, a sense of equality towards these mothers is the subject of some kind of reflection. [[The voice from the hall: I worked, I had four, and I don't feel hurt.]] I understand that, Commissioner, but I am asking because such letters are sent to us, correspondence, and therefore the question is justified. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u147	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u148	The last question I wanted to ask is the issue of early retirement benefits for people with disabilities who have worked 25 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u149	Good. Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. I ask you to stick to a certain time, because there are 30 more people who would like to speak, and we have half an hour. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u150	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! All of us, who sit in these benches, know very well what Poland looked like, especially the famous image of Polish towns and popegeer villages, before 2015. I was the head of a school team in a town like this. The kids came hungry to school. [[Voice from the hall: They're coming today too.]] Hungry people came to school. [[Voice from the room: And they're still coming.]] We have eliminated the poverty of Polish families. [[And who took out the cafeteria?]] Ladies and gentlemen, in such small towns there are crèches, we are helping mothers, especially those single mothers, who can work at the moment and take their children to nursery, to kindergarten. There are senior clubs, senior houses in such small towns, in small municipalities. [[From the European Union.]] Did you have this before 2015? [[Yes.]] [[I've got the CUS data...]] Dear Minister, Members of the opposition have criticised, said that we are not helping single mothers. Is the 500+ program and the plus pistol aimed at single mothers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u151	Thank you very much. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is not unusual that the state has a duty to help the weakest. [[Voice from the room: Where were you?]] The trouble is, you guys forgot your families in a crisis. You are not where violence, poverty, exclusion and disability occur. [[Voice from the hall: Please don't tell stories.]] To those people who today suffer from poverty and exclusion, these single mothers, you have added in the Polish Lade - people with disabilities, who are constantly pushing into the margins of social, educational and public life, pensioners whose poverty looks into the eyes. The level of poverty... You can't tell them it's okay because they see it and feel it. Poverty in Poland is increasing. That's a fact, you won't deny it, and you won't scream it. It's rising and it's already reached 5.2 last year. It's increased from 4.6. [[Voice from the room: Is it rising?]] [[Voice from the room: Manipulation!]] [[Voice from the room: Please read the statistics with understanding.]] The ladies are screaming so much. Your Marshal, could you draw your attention to the Mrs PiS Members?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u153	I'm returning it all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u154	I understand that your lie hurts, too, because people see the truth. You leave your families in crisis and leave the young. This is something young people can't forgive when you talk about pro-family politics... [[A voice from the hall: And you lead them out into the streets.]] Calm down. ...you should even remember the apartments. What about your apartment program? What about your apartments plus? There isn't. [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Apartments in Poland (The Bell) are among the most overcrowded, and for young people they are not available. Then start doing it, not talking nonsense. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u155	Thank you. Mrs Matysiak, the Left Club. Once again, I'm asking you to stop your emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u156	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the development of social and social projects is justified, it is necessary. But when it comes to their implementation or continuation, problems and challenges begin to overlap, which the government does not specifically know how to respond to. I have a few specific questions and I would like to point out immediately that if the Minister does not answer these questions in her speech, I will ask for an answer in writing. When and when are we going to get the benefit of 500+, which, in the face of inflation, is no longer the same value as it was a few years ago? Why don't seniors get the 14th pension promised by the President of Law and Justice? To what extent has the Life Programme increased access to prenatal research? How many women did he provide real help with a difficult, complicated pregnancy? Has the state begun to be surrounded by adequate, reliable hospice care, financial and psychological care of women who force them to give birth to terminally ill children? Did the government increase the benefits for caretakers of children with disabilities from such pregnancies? What are the results of government programs that assumed an increase in children's lives in Poland? And one last question. Does the government analyze the causes of Poles and Poles' lack of offspring, and is it finally going to do something about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Starting my speech, I would like to express my full appreciation and thanks to the representatives of our government for the implemented and conducted policy supporting Polish families at every stage of their functioning. And I don't mean just economic factors resulting, among other things. from the implementation of the 500+ programme for nearly 6 years, financial support from which has been permanently integrated into the budgets of young Polish families, because I am also thinking about solutions supporting parents in providing childcare, combining work and family life and supporting seniors in ensuring a prosperous, serene autumn through guaranteed thirteen pensions and programmes such as Senior+, Active+ and many others. There is also no way to forget about good, pro-social solutions such as zero PIT for young people, the "Milk+' programme, the "Good start' or the 'Mama+' programme. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to thank you very much for all this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u159	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u160	Demographics aren't Gypsy, they'll tell you the truth. The truth about the fabulous... [[Are you insulting the Roma?]] ...with the PiS, where everything's on the plus side. But why is demography a catastrophic minus? In 2 years Poland shrunk by 300,000. People. Last year, 125,000 died. more people, because 518 thousand, in relation to the forecast of the CSO that he was talking about, and basically lied, Minister of Sweden. Only the lowest result was born after the war, 331 thousand. People. Now I move on to the statements of the Minister for PAP: As we took over in 2015, the forecasts of the CSO spoke about the number of births at the level of 320 000. Children and 380,000 were born at the time. After the year of operation of the programme, 400,000 of them were born. Minister! The forecast of the CSO, and the best scenario was realized at the time, said that in 2016 376 thousand would be born and 378 thousand would be born in 2017. children. The whole 500+ program is demographically barely 50,000. People. 3.5 million per child born above the prognosis. Congratulations. Demographically, disaster. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Congratulations.]] We're talking about human births. And an in vitro program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 22,000 were born. Kids...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u162	...for 244 million. Your show...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u164	...less than 300... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u165	Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social programmes supporting those most in need are of course extremely important, but apart from social support, they are important and much more important areas that require decisive action by the state. You are talking about the fact that the support of families 500+, family care capital or good start-up are supposed to help financially, but also increase the fertility of Polish families. And here we need a comprehensive policy on low-cost housing, labour market support, access to daycare or health care, e.g. In terms of care... [[Voice from the room: Apartment without own contribution.]] ...partipartum. There's a lot to do in this area, and I don't think you're gonna come up with anything new. The actions taken show this in numerous statistics, showing that there is no such increase in fertility. In the last 12 months, the least children have been born since the end of World War II. [[Voice from the hall: But only in Poland? All over the world, I guess.]] The question is: What kind of strategy do you have when it comes to changing the demographic structure of our country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u167	Thank you very much, Member. [[A voice from the hall: Because there were fewer women of your age... as if you didn't know that.]] [[Can you calm those...]] Yes, of course. Once again, I'm paying attention to stopping emotions. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, I wanted to thank you on behalf of the families of the Minister for the reform of the entire Ministry, for the fact that the family has gained the status of the highest value. That wasn't in the time of the P.O. Minister, thank you very much. Programmes financed by the Solidarity Fund are implemented in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The funds of the fund are, among others. government-funded and resorting activities involving the implementation of the tasks of local self-government units in the field of persons with disabilities. Please, Minister, for information on the programmes and actions financed by this fund. I would like to point out that the Żłobek+¿ programme is very well implemented by the local government. Here, too, I ask whether all the local authorities that asked the Ministry for funding received this funding. What is the support of senior homes today, and how was this course of action implemented during the time of the total opposition? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u169	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the Minister, you may feel that thanks to the so-called. Poland is a country of milk and honey (Applause), but the real verifier of the effectiveness of your family policy is demography. It's a science where hard data rules and people can't be blinded, and the facts are that in Poland there's a record-breaking birth of very few children. Your social incentives to improve demographics have had a short-term effect, which you have admitted to yourself. You don't care about young people's ambitions or what kind of family they want to create. You're trying to impose your only right, coded model in the head of a multi-children's family. What about the smaller families? [[Applause]] In view of the Mother+ program, called your grace to the mothers designated by the official, most women do not hide their outrage because they divide people and are unjust. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear...]] What about mothers who have fewer than four children, or those who perfectly agree to raise these four with work and responsibilities? You've forgotten about these. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Stop yelling there.]] I'm not talking about the Polish Lad anymore. Lone parents rightly do not leave their clothes on it. It's another socio-tech to the weakest. The scandal is to take away their ability to account together. When you finally realize that not promoting a particular family model, charging money into it (the bell) but system solutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u172	...directed to everyone, regardless of the number of children they have, they are... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u173	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here I would like to claim families with children with disabilities, people with disabilities. These families are much more vulnerable to poverty than families of disabled children. You have recently announced a project, a new form of project for life, only that this project turns out to be much less spectacular than you have announced. More than 50% of the amount that the State boasted about These are benefits for pregnant women who are entitled to benefits from each insured person. You're just playing creative accounting, pretending to be doing more than you've done so far. I am surprised that the Minister does not explain at all and pretends that there was no report by NIK, who spectacularly crushed the program for life, which, instead of bringing the promised support to families of people with disabilities, has done virtually nothing. So I have questions about this new program. You have there, for example. an idea to introduce an advisor for a family of a person with disabilities. What is the difference between a family assistant's programme and the fact that it will be even less available and that there is even less money for it? How are you going to support these families with so little money? You also have a proposal for a hotline that isn't new because you've been promising it for four years, and now you're saying it's gonna show up again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So when's he gonna show up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u175	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! At the moment, women's professional activities are being paid a lot of attention, and professional activity is promoted while at the same time being a mother. But how can a woman reconcile professional and family responsibilities when it is a problem to provide care for the youngest children? These women are most often burdened with the obligation to provide care for their children, so they often refuse to return to work after parental leave. Unfortunately, the longer the break in women's employment, the harder it is for them to return to the labour market. Women, without working for a few years, may no longer be an attractive employer. It may take longer to adapt their qualifications to current requirements. Women in the first years of their child's life must provide care for their children without access to nursery facilities. This happens not only in larger cities, but also in the countryside. Yes, in larger cities this availability of daycare is greater. But I wanted to ask: What actions did the Ministry of Family and Social Policy take to provide this care for the youngest, for the youngest? How many daycares have been created, and how many daycares are the Ministry planning to run so that the young moms can reconcile the work (the bell) with the raising of children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You're not gonna feed the kids or warm up the seniors with the banksters' stories to enchant reality. It is time to show a little respect for reality and for our fellow countrymen and empathy towards them. Have you eradicated poverty? Your CUS says: the level of extreme poverty in Poland, including among children, has increased in 2020 to 5.2%. This means - this is important - that in 1-person families they have 640 PLN per month and in 4-persons 1727 PLN per month. Extreme poverty is growing even more, as up to 5.9% , and it was supposed to be 1% , children under the age of 17. For six years, under your rule, there has also been increasing poverty among seniors, as confirmed not only by the CSO, but also by Eurostat. And what do you propose to such poor families, who have been knocked down by recent increases, e.g. electricity and heat prices? It's a cover-up. But that's not an accessory. It's a mockery, or rather a smoke screen for the government, although it doesn't cover anything either. The Sejm approved this supplement, but how much is it? From 15 PLN (The Bell) to 33 PLN per person per month.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u180	This is ridiculous. For the year 400 PLN or 600 PLN. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Get down now!]] [[Pity for the vote, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u181	Thank you, Madam President, but time is up. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. There isn't? [[The voice from the hall: There was nothing in your house!]] Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u182	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Family 500+z - the future of families, but not all families, ladies and gentlemen. There are families where all the extras fade away the tradition of work. My parents made sponsors out of kids. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[A voice from the hall: But what nonsense are you saying?]] Look at the outermost areas. [[Voice from the room: Lowest unemployment we have. What nonsense are you talking about?]] And that's why there's a little unemployment. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] Give me free kindergartens. Give me free daycare. Give us free senior nursing homes. Get health care so your parents don't have to raise money to save their baby's life. [[Voice from the room: Oh, yeah.]] Give support to people with disabilities who lie in bed for years, and no one knows they're alive. The money's needed. Now, what did the Platform do? Because you people lie all the time. [[Voice from the room: What did the Platform do?]] Effective fight against poverty. Between 2007 and 2015, the proportion of people at risk of poverty fell from 45% to 22%. The programme is for young people - 110 000. Young families have been co-financed. And where are your apartments? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Singles in Warsaw.]] In vitro funding programme, from which 22,000 were born. children. What are you doing in this direction? Women give birth to children and die in delivery because they are not properly cared for. Parental witnessing - 1000 PLN for 12 months... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u184	...for students, unemployed people...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u186	...putting in the longest vacation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: 2 million...]] [[Room voice: PIT zero!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u187	Thank you. Don't yell, Member. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. There isn't? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] You're welcome. [[It is, it is, it's just waiting. He's waiting patiently, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u188	Dear Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Seym! After that speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u189	Thank you, Member, for this calm voice. I hope it affects everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u190	Newest, introduced since January this year. a form of support for families with young dependent children, so-called Family care capital, provides support in the amount of PLN 500 per second child and another one from the age of 12 months until the age of 30 months. On the one hand, it is intended to encourage parents to decide whether to have a second child and another child, and on the other hand it fills the gap in the state's support for parents from the end of support in the form of maternity allowance to start support in the form of pre-school care. The details were mentioned by the Minister, so I won't. However, it is well known that not all parents can or want to have more offspring, so the rules also include support for parents with one child, including from the age of 12 months to the age of 35 months, to finance the functioning of childcare facilities for children who will not be covered by family care capital. So I have a question for the Minister: What number of children includes such support, and how will it be practically possible to benefit from this support? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u191	Thank you, Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, why is it so bad when it's so good? It turns out that the average pension between 2015 and 2020... [[Voice from the room: It was just a moment ago.]] ...falled from 54% of the average salary to 48% of the average salary, which is to say that the average pensioner has become poorer. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit! That's not true! That's a lie. It's a lie.]] That's another line. We have four times more starvation pensions, which are those that are below the lowest retirement rate in your day. [[Voices from the hall: This isn't retirement.]] That's another line. You promised 14 pensions before the election. At some point it turned out that something that was to be a regular witness would not be in 2022. [[Voice from the room: Speculation.]] As a result, with the Polish Łady, it turns out that the least earning pensioner in 2022 will get less than he received in 2021, because the tax change will not eliminate the lack of a 14th pension. That's another line. You say you have effective programs for families, but Poles do not want to have children. It turns out that the number of children born in Poland in 2021 is the lowest since World War II, but for the first time since 1945 the number of deaths has exceeded 0.5 million. [[The Member doesn't know why, does he? You don't know the Member.]] Yeah, 'cause you couldn't handle the pandemic. That's true, too. We have a situation like this. You've eliminated in vitro, which gave birth to 22,000. Children, you introduced a program that gave birth to two hundred and dozen children. And that's an example (the bell) of you not being able to run pro-family politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u193	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[At what point?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations outside the plenary room. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I still have an aggression in my ears that hasn't been out of that podium that long ago. Unlike the opposition, my speech will be non-emotional, because the subject matter of the family should be surrounded by peace, support, merology, as the current government of law and justice does. The speeches of the Members of Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen, are not lies, not self-loathing, but honest truth, true data. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Where's the 14th pension?]] Madam, therefore, I do not understand why such emotions are aroused among you from the opposition. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you're lying.]] Since 2015, we have been building up a system of support for seniors, leading an effective long-term social policy towards older people. Thus, we strive to help them in their own independent lives. Senior+ is a program that creates houses and senior clubs. In 2015, the Council - and we don't discuss it because this is the data - we found 99 senior houses for only 2,800 people. Today, over 25,000. Seniors have over 1000 houses and clubs at their disposal (the bell). Minister! Will this kind of support for local governments to create senior houses and clubs continue to be one of the priorities of family policies of the Government of Law and Justice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u195	Thank you, Member. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all agree that family is very important in every dimension. The needs of a citizen of all ages should be noted and always respond to them. The government cares about families with children, but it also does not forget seniors. Despite criticism of the opposition, we are very flexible in our actions, meeting the expectations of every social group. One of the social policy programmes is the "Mama 4+' programme, the complementary provision, which is an expression of generational solidarity, an expression of concern for those women, mothers who raised four children, often and more, and which unfortunately could not take up employment, did not work to obtain the right to a minimum pension. I will remind you that in 2019, when the programme entered into force, nearly 60 thousand were submitted. applications for this benefit or increase the pension to a minimum amount. From March 2019 to December 2021, the total amount of support under the scheme was over PLN 1200 million. Minister! I would like to ask: Does the government provide a fair value for pension benefits? Does it change the principles of valorisation when the socio-economic situation so requires? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u197	Thank you, Member. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u198	Just a moment ago, Mrs Wojciechowska said, "Come on, come on, come on." So I'm saying we're giving. But I'd like to ask you how much opposition you gave when you were in charge. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to know, Minister: How many thirteen and fourteen were paid by 2016? [[Voice from the room: Good!]] How much money was paid by 2016 when it comes to spending on social policy and how much is being paid at the moment? How much more is that? Because they're billions. The Minister said 176 billion per 500+ etc. But let's compare these figures. A concrete example. Retired in October. in November she received 2828 PLN, twice as much, which means she received an additional pension. In December she got 1805 PLN, of course, but in January she got 1934 PLN, which is 129 PLN more. This amount times twelve is an additional pension of PLN 1548 per year. And that's the answer: we give. These are specific amounts. You'll say inflation. I'm the one who says that the extra pensions and the extra benefits were so much that... The inflation wasn't there yet. Inflation only emerged at the end of 2021. Today, you will vote on the issue (the bell) of candidates for the Monetary Policy Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u199	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u200	Your candidate, Dr. Jakub Borowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u202	...explains that they're just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice. Mr President, you will limit the opportunity to speak to other Members because time is running out and we have 14 parliamentarians left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u204	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's like we're living in another world. [[Yes.]] A lot of retired people come to my parliamentary office. They are very pleased with the way their right - hand government, the rule of law and justice treats them. They are frightened to recall the times of total opposition rule. The figures for you are absolute. Look at the value of pensions in your day, how many pensioners have been given a value for their pensions. [[Voice from the room: 3 zł.]] It was a joke. It's a joke. The pale fear falls upon these people when they think you can return to government again. [[Applause]] Dear Minister, I have a question because the numbers are absolute and they're crushing. Please indicate what was the benefit of the lowest pension salaries in recent years... [[Voice from the room: 7 years.]] ...taking into account the time when total opposition ruled so well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u205	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Conducting family policies is the duty and duty of every government. Unfortunately, the pro-family policy did not exist in Poland until 2015 and did not function. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] From the moment the PiS took over the government of our homeland... [[Voice from the room: Interesting, because I introduced it with Jarosław Kaczyński.]] Do not shout, Madame, patience. [[Voice from the room: It's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u207	Madame, please don't report from the Parliamentary Courts. [[A voice from the room: Then don't let him lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u208	Since PiS, Law and Justice, governments in our homeland have been in place for six years, a number of family programs have been in place. Let me mention a few of them: 500+, a family travel voucher, ¿Milch+, free medicines 70+, 75+, zero PIT for young people, a return of 60 years for women, 65 years for men, a 13th pension, a 14th pension, an increase in the lowest wage - today it is over 3 000. PLN, increase in hourly rate - over 19 PLN, programme Good start, school expedition - 300 PLN, mom 4+ž, family care capital, pension without tax. In addition, I would like to stress that (the bell) under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL unemployment in some voivodships and powiats, for example in the Prudnice district where I live, reached 20%.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u209	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u210	Today it's a one-digit number. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u211	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member. [[I didn't have time to ask you a question.]] [[Voice from the room: That's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Like the Members of the total opposition, I will begin my statement in this way: if it was so good, then why was it so bad? Why have you lost seven times, my dears? This is the first case. Second thing. There's a lot of talk about demography here. Well, I agree. You have had great successes in demography, only that among Polish families who gave birth to their children in the UK, in Germany, and not in Poland. In your day, Poland lost 2 million citizens. This is an irretrievable loss. It was so good that young people fled Poland. [[Voice from the room: Since what year?]] Very often the only income in a large family was In fact, it's a regular retirement income, grandma or grandpa. It was the only steady income especially for families in small towns, in villages. Families were very often indebted to local shops. It's the so-called. A loan for a notebook. It was a constantly present element in small towns and villages. That was the welfare of your governments, my dear country. I will refer to the words of the Member who also spoke about demography. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear lady, women are smart and they know there's an epidemic. Therefore, their decision to have a child is often postponed for the moment when the epidemic ends. It's normal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u213	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice. Just stick to the time. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I will say this, the opposition state yelling because you are cynical, because you are also helpless to what the government of the United Right has achieved. You weren't interested in family or disabled people. The PO-PSL governments dealt with completely different matters. It was the Government of the United Right that recognised family policies as fundamental, priority, fundamental to social development. That's why today we're talking about this policy, about its effects. And the fact that Polish women have fewer children... I will ask, Minister, how many kindergartens have been built from 2015 to 2021 compared to previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u215	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Vice Minister! High Izbo! The pro-family policy of the United Right Camp is a policy that responds to current needs, but is also wise and generous. The Minister spoke very carefully about this. The 500+ programme is particularly important, thanks to which real funds go directly to the budgets of Polish families. It is about PLN 170 billion. Parents can decide whether to use these funds for rest, for additional education or for example. Put it on some kind of deposit. If anyone's talking about any pathology, I don't think he really knows the reality. These are some extreme cases which, anyway, can verify ILOS, GOPS and can take action. Minister! I have a question about the Life Programme. This is particularly the case for people who take care of people with disabilities. May I ask how many local governments have taken advantage of this possibility? Was the fund used to provide rest for people who care for people with disabilities? I know that a family counselor is foreseen in the Life Programme. Can we say a few words about this? What is his role? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u218	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, we hear more and more of a lie from the Seym's pulpit. As far as Kashubian is concerned, it is not true that Kashubian language will lose anything. Absolutely not true. I can say it out loud. Let's get back to the subject. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Navel for her words. I was applauding at the time. Of course, you doubt that Poland is a country of milk and honey. By comparing the situation to the times of your governments, I must say that this term definitely fits perfectly. Yes, under the rule of law and justice, Poland is a country of milk and honey. We have so many forms of support for Polish families that it is difficult to remember. From my heart, I would like to express my thanks to the ministers. Among these programs, one particularly stuck in my memory - that Ma 4+¿. One of the messengers spoke of him. I'm not gonna say... An eight-year-old mom came to the office and asked for her pension. It didn't work. I knew why it didn't work. It's because we've just introduced this program. I have a question. Could you support marriages with 45-50 years of the 500+ programme? Is that possible in the future? Why am I talking about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If one of the spouses dies, it is often difficult to maintain one pension or pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 1990, the guru of the economy of the Civic Platform Mr Balcerowicz introduces a new economic system in Poland. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs day by day, and rural areas were particularly affected, where PGRs were liquidated. People lived in poverty, people lived in poverty. At a later stage, when the Civic Platform and the PSL took over power in Poland, Mr. Donald Tusk hired Mr. Rostkowski, who followed him and said: there is no money and will not be. And Mr. Donald Tusk was looking for that money. He went to Zakopane, dug up Zakopane, no money. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Then he came up with the idea that you could find a button like this. If he pushes that button, that money's gonna turn up and he's gonna be able to help. He didn't find a button like that. And what did he give society? It's a loop button. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Of course today, Mr Donald Tusk as a prominent European Union politician, together with total opposition, became builders. They build a big wall, a wall of obstacles so that funds for reconstruction from the European Union do not go to Poland, so that they do not go to Polish families, so that they do not go to Polish children (The Bell), but despite these obstacles the government tries to conduct a pro-social policy, for which I thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, by extending your statements, you are preventing others from speaking because it is already behind schedule, and there are five other people left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u222	Just a little bit. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing in politics is credibility - the most important is for the Law and Justice, the United Right. The most important thing for you is to lie and manipulate. Today, all the screams from that speaker were very good at this. Ladies and gentlemen! For eight years of your reign, you have done very little for the Polish family. You introduced a flagship annual family leave in 2015. We've implemented this bill. You introduced an additional welfare benefit in 2015. We were implementing this program because you only did it because you knew that there was a strong component of pro-family policy in the Law and Justice programme. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The fear of winning the election caused you to make those decisions. That's the truth about your governments. Law and Justice for six years of government... All those programs we're holding up. It has not been a year since we have not developed various forms of reaching where assistance and support are needed. You're not gonna scream that and you're not gonna take that away from us. I ask you to respect our contribution to help Polish families.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u224	Just a question. Minister! There are a number of good solutions for the family in Polish Lada, so please answer me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u225	Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An integral part of family and social policy is the concern of the State for people with disabilities. A wise and responsible government policy towards people with disabilities is to enable them to work, education, make public space available, support in achieving independence, of course, as far as possible and enable them to lead independent lives. But such an active policy in the field of support for people with disabilities is not possible without sufficient public funding. So, dear opposition, concrete. In 2015, the Polish state spent 15,5 billion on support for people with disabilities and carers. Last year it was PLN 29 630 million, and therefore there was an increase of 91%. I have a question: Will such an outline of the policy of openness for the needs of people with disabilities be the prime objective of government policy? Listening to your diwags, I had the impression that you couldn't read the statistics, or you couldn't interpret them, or you didn't want to, abstracting from the obvious lies that were here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The year 2016, the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right - is a groundbreaking year in terms of the welfare of the child and the welfare of the Polish family and the genuine care for our noble seniors, the real perception of the family as the hearts of Poland, and children as a gift and treasure of the family. It was invested in a generational dimension. Here are three groundbreaking dates in 2016. 11 February - The Sejm adopts a law on change in the Family and Care Code. No more picking up biological babies from families because of poverty. [[Applause]] The second date: 1 April - the 500+z program starts. The end, among others. with purchases of basic food products on the so-called a notebook in many Polish towns (Klaszka), and mostly in popegeer villages. 16 November 2016 - the return to the previous retirement age for women in the countryside is the return of pension freedom (Applause) is also the date of restoring social justice to Polish citizens. Then it gets better and better: I have 4+ thatFor my life, 300+ that little boy+that, 13th and 14th pensions, travel voucher, senior+thatcare+that, 75+free medicines, non-tax pension for tax-payers up to 2500 zł gross, and now family care capital, co-financing for daycare. Bravo to the government of law and justice! Congratulations to Minister Marlena Maląg! Bravo for Minister Stanislaw Swede! [[Applause]] On the other hand, to you, who said scandalous words about Gypsy and Statistics: please apologize to the Roma in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u229	That is actually true, sir. It was outrageous. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u230	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I remember the year 2016, when I talked to an entrepreneur who said that the 500+ program would lead to the fact that there would be no one to work. During the discussion after a long time to this entrepreneur who has visited, you can say, the whole world, I say: Sir, tell me what is help for a family in Germany, France, the UK, the Netherlands, and why so many young people have gone away and decide to have children there. He says to me, "You know what, you're 100 percent right here. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with Article Poland has joined a group of Western countries that support families very strongly, and no one will deny it. Even our total opposition. Minister! I would like to get this information: How much help did Polish families receive from 2007 to 2015 and how much from 2015 to 2022? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As I know, I am the last one to speak, so I will allow myself to take a brief summary, above all a summary of the governments of Mr Donald Tusk, the governments and the pro-social and pro-family policies. It can be shortened and formulated in two words. This pro-family policy was called sluts and mirabelles. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you offered Polish families, Polish children, Polish pensioners. The situation changed dramatically in 2015, when governments in Poland covered Law and Justice and these reforms and laws of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, then Mateusz Morawiecki had a very positive impact on the financial condition of Polish families. Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about expensive, inflation. Yes, the prices of products, including those basic, nutritional, have increased, but one should ask why. Because by the European Union's climate policy, by agreeing to the European Union's gas policy, which was presided over by the king of Europe, Mr Donald Tusk. Ladies and gentlemen! You're criticizing 500+. The question should be asked what would happen if this 500+ was not for Polish families today with such a high price increase of both fuel and food. [[Applause]] [[Exactly, that's the truth.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I would like to ask how much money from all these funds and programs has been paid to Polish families in the last 5 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u233	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, thanking you for this subject, because, as you can see, it is important and has given rise to a really serious discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u234	Thank you very much, Marshal. Yes, this is an important subject and it was important to recall the achievements of the Law and Justice Government in the broad sense of family policies. As a responsible formation we respond to the current needs of Polish families and consequently prepare and implement new programs. Thank you very much, Minister Marlena Maląg, for providing information and bringing the government closer to family policy. As we have seen, there is so much that the time frame for the speech was unfortunately too narrow, too narrow. When I listened to voices, especially those of the opposition, it was difficult to resist the impression that they cared about Poles when they did not rule. If he's in charge, let me remind you: fuel can be up to 7 zlotys. And I don't need to remind you whose words they are. I will also remind you of the more important achievements of the Platform and PSL. Well, 2 million children excluded from family benefits in 2009. A shameful year for family policies of the Civic Platform and PSL. There were sluts and mirabelles. Today, the opposition offers children a glass of milk. This would be the reality of Polish families if Platform and PSL returned to power. We've heard the words: there's no money for these programs and there won't be. There have also been attempts to tamper with the program, restrict children's access to it. In 2012, Polish families heard bitter words from the Platform, and I quote: For you, the cheapest is a family without children. End of quote. In 2014, seniors received a proposal of 36 PLN gross, as - attention - compensation for the hardships of life. This was the proposal of the Platform and PSL for Polish families and for Polish seniors. And it was completely untruthful today's prickly remarks regarding the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. I will remind you because it seems that you have either forgotten or deliberately mislead the public. Besides, it's a dubious way of putting political capital on the wrong side of it. The 13th pension was guaranteed by law and paid 35 billion PLN to pensioners and pensioners. The 14th pension from the start was a one-off income-dependent benefit. However, thanks to the payment of the 13th and 14th pensions, 46 billion PLN went to Polish seniors' portfolios, and since January also seniors who receive a gross benefit have experienced a significant increase in cash in their portfolios. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] And especially today, PSL Members should remain silent, because it was your formation that extended the retirement age for Poles and Poles, and when it comes to women in the countryside, it was the whole 12 years. Not to mention the electronic portal for homeless people for PLN 50 million. Well, those were really ideas for the time being. Today you show concern for those groups you didn't care about when you were in power. Isn't that called hypocrisy? When we introduced pro-family programs, you didn't leave anything on them as Members of the opposition. Such an example, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote: Law and Justice introduces laws that destroy the wallets of Poles and with force tornado increases the deficit of the state budget, for which we will all pay... [[Voice from the room: We're already paying.]] ...which means he's beating all the Poles in the head all the time, and now he's offering 500+. It's not gonna work. This is a statement by Mr Mirosław Suchonio from the Sejm of 9 February 2016. But then there were words about shrugs and humiliation. Today, the Members of the opposition insulted Poles and you showed that you were mentally still stuck in 2015. But maybe that's a good thing, because you exposed the real face and proved in this discussion that only Law and Justice guarantee the safe implementation of programs dedicated to Polish families. [[Applause]] Polish families, if you returned to power, would also have to go back to 2015. No one needs such a horror, and already Poles do not deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u235	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the Minister. Will the Minister still want to speak? No. Minister Stanisław Szwed, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the applicants, the Law and Justice Club, for the current information on a very important family matter. I can say with all my power here that over the last few years we have restored human dignity, family dignity and respect. And those opinions that you're trying to convince the public that they're not, they have nothing to do with what we've done over the last six or seven years. Although shy voices have appeared, something has changed, but I think that this is the answer to the question of one of our Members concerning what were the programmes for families in 2015, 2014 and 2012. We can trade. The 500+ program was? He wasn't there. ¿School training was? She wasn't there. The 13th pension was? It wasn't. Fourteen? It wasn't. Tax-free amount up to 2.5 thousand. The Evil for Retirement Was? It wasn't. [[It wasn't.]] Was there a "Mama 4+" programme, or a benefit? It wasn't. [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] Was there an independent program? It wasn't. [[There was nothing.]] I can keep swapping, swapping, swapping, and it turns out there was nothing. There was nothing, and what you brought in... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: There were many other programs.]] ...in 2015, it implemented the Law and Justice, as the President said. That's the truth... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Don't lie!]] ...and you should have at least a moment to reflect on what happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u237	Mrs... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Why is she lying?]] ...you had your time, really. Now, please, a little humility. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Now a few words explaining these detailed questions. Many times the issue of the Polish Order arises, so I will answer again from this speaker. Up to the amount of PLN 12 800 no person will lose on solutions related to the Polish Lad, whether it be a single person or in the family. The changes are being made, so don't tell me those people are gonna lose somehow. Line two. As far as the funds we spend on support for people with disabilities are concerned, in 2015 it was less than PLN 15 billion, now - PLN 32 billion. The last programme - PLN 1 billion of additional funding for the SWD - Activity - Mobility! ¿, i.e. the support programme for independent individuals, which implements PFRON, and PLN 200 million for so-called. It's a rental. With regard to the programmes of the last months concerning people with disabilities, the programme is being introduced: assistant to the disabled person, addressed to local governments, PLN 510 million for local authorities for assistants, PLN 100 million for the organization of public benefit. There was a question about the care of rest. Over PLN 200 million additional funds. All these actions improve the situation of people with disabilities. That doesn't mean it's all solved. It takes a lot, but we have come out of a very low ceiling, and every year we carry out these activities that help people with disabilities. There were questions about family support. There's a family assistant in our programs and there are family help homes. For many years, 47 homes have been built. We have changed the programme, in 2022 we will have 12 new actors that will help. That's what I've already mentioned: a witness for those who are independent. Over 770 thousand. people benefit from 500 PLN support for those who need such support, which are independent. Self-governments may commission public benefit organisations to help such individuals. We have eliminated the disability pension trap, which is also another solution. There was a thread here about poverty. Just a few basic data, because we're talking about extreme poverty, and in our GUS, we're looking at an indicator. There are expenses. The expenses are down, so it's up. But if we look at revenue, it's a completely different indicator, we're getting more revenue. I can quote Eurostat indicators: in 2015 the poverty rate according to Eurostat was 22,5% , and now, in 2022, it is 17% , that is how the extreme poverty rate has fallen according to Eurostat. This is obvious with billions of zloty of resources that we spend on support, help, family policy, social policy in our country. Only this year is 112 billion. These are the resources we're putting into this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, if you don't mind, just a moment longer. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: As far as the demographic issue is concerned, because it has emerged here, it is necessary to explain once again to one of the Members who does not seem to understand what demographics are all about, that demography is one of these indicators, that is, the fertility rate. In 2015, when we started governments, the fertility rate was 1.29, i.e. 129 children were born out of 100 pregnant women. Now there's a 1.4, which means 140 children are born out of 100, so it's going up. After all, it's obvious that if it's more than demographic and we lose the mothers we're giving birth, it's the index that's rising, but there's less children. This is obvious, although we had what was already said here, the year 2017, in which more than 400 thousand were born in Poland, and the forecasts for this year were at the level of 320 thousand. To this we referred to, however, that the first effect of the 500+ family programme resulted in the fact that there was a year where more children were born. But the main cause is more than demographic. The entire demographic strategy that we are preparing in our resort goes in this direction to raise this fertility rate to at least 1.8 over the next few decades. Then there's a better chance for generations to replace them. And that's another issue that we're solving. There were issues related to the situation of pensioners concerning the 13th and 14th pensions. Here, too, Members of our club have explained this. The 14th pension, the lowest pension, the lowest pension is 1250 PLN. If we count the tax-free amount this year for pensioners, it's going to be a higher amount. So that's another solution that helps seniors. There is a continuing 13th pension, as well as these solutions in the Polish Retirement Board mostly, mostly more than 90% They're favorable. Once again, we're explaining this to these people, pensioners and rencistoms, I think that's 420,000. persons who lost in January: this amount is already offset by the Social Insurance Institution. Three tranches normally in February pensions are even as early as January, i.e. all those who have a pension of up to PLN 12 800 do not lose, but on this solution they can gain, not only that they can gain as much as they gain. So that's another solution, too. There was a question about the Youth+ programme. Let me remind you, we started with the amount of 150 million, in all these years in our case it was the amount of 450 million PLN. This year, too, this programme will be mobilised by our ministry, but also with European support. These are the topics we're implementing for which we're allocating funds. What is most important, also during this difficult pandemic period, all these programmes on family policy are continued, even some are being further developed and more resources are being allocated. This is the policy of our government to support families, because we believe that this is the most important, I would say, this is the Polish right state. [[Applause]] If there are no families, there will be no children, of course there will be no chance of developing our country, hence our determination to pursue such a family policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for the detailed information you and the Minister have provided for this daily work and programmes. Mr Mirosław Suchoń as corrected. But you're welcome, just like we agreed, 15 seconds. [[What do you want to straighten out? His statement in 2016]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Borowiak did not speak then, on 9 February in this debate, so I cannot address anything. But you have misled the High House. I was saying that this program (the bell) wouldn't work on demographics, as you put it, and I was right. [[You were wrong.]] On the other hand, Minister, in 2015 the CSO did not publish children and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u239	Sir, but we had an agreement...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u240	This was only the 2014 forecast.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir. [[The Member also wants to correct it.]] Member, not anymore. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome. One sentence, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'm sorry, but you don't explain well. You wanted to straighten out your words, I read exactly what you said in the transcript, and please don't explain yourself today, because this is a really poor translation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u244	You judged the program against honor and faith. Thank you very much. [[I'm not translating, I'm saying you lied to people. Aren't you ashamed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u245	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u246	We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens (prints 1702 and 1852). I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u247	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens. The draft resolution was adopted by the Sejm on 22 October 2021. He received printing number 1702. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 28 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent a draft resolution to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Foreign Affairs following its first reading and consideration of this draft resolution at its meeting on 15 December. r. recommends that this draft be adopted. Let me read it because I think the best justification is simply the content of this resolution. Resolution of the Polish Parliament on solidarity with Afghan citizens The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites the Council of Ministers, the institutions of the European Union and the entire international community to express solidarity with Afghan citizens, who, as a result of the takeover of power by the Taliban, are threatened with a permanent loss of their rights to science, work, health, personal freedom. Human rights guaranteed by international treaties are the highest value and their observance must be a condition for any political action. Over the past 20 years, women in Afghanistan have shown determination and effectiveness in taking up education and studies, learning professions and gaining degrees, opening up and running their own business, performing their own political and local functions and engaging in the activities of social organisations. The fight for access to science and work required many victims. Almost a thousand Afghan women lost their lives each year. They successfully broke the cultural and religious stereotype of the social and professional role of women. Women accounted for 25% Parliamentarians, working in local government, were present in areas previously reserved for men. Today, Afghan women are threatened with permanent loss not only of these prey but also of freedom, health and life. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites the Council of Ministers and the institutions of the European Union to make every possible discussion with the new Afghan authorities and their diplomatic recognition conditional on the respect and maintenance of Afghan rights and respect for international law. The Taliban's disapproval of women's rights as human rights cannot be tolerated by the civilised world. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland also addresses Polish and foreign scientific, economic and social backgrounds with an appeal for assistance and support to Afghan citizens who received political rights and re-emancipated themselves only 20 years ago. They must not be deprived of the rights of all people. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said at the outset, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that this draft resolution be adopted. And I personally recommend this, too, in the view that the Polish women were one of those women who had obtained the right to vote at the earliest, and according to our tradition of the Polish way to freedom, the Polish women's way is very much asked to adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u248	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And as the first Mrs Elizabeth Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens. Recent changes in the political situation in this country have led to a rapid deterioration in the lives of residents, including women in particular. In the last two decades, a new generation of people have developed, including many journalists, doctors, teachers, athletes. Women, too, have been engaged in such professions, hoping for a good and peaceful future. Today, many women, fearing for their own lives, are covering up their business. For being a student, a clerk, they're going to die. It was the Poles who were always in the vanguard of the world. More than 100 years ago, they were among the first to win electoral rights. Polish women performed not only scientific functions, reaching even for the Nobel Prize, but also political ones, as well as devoted their lives to defending their homeland. That is why we appreciate the determination and effectiveness of Afghan women in fighting for access to education, social or political functions. By solidarity with the women of Afghanistan, we object to unfair and inhuman treatment. The lack of acceptance of the role of women in the modern civilized world is unacceptable. We believe that the draft resolution is necessary and fully justified. The Law and Justice Club supports the parliamentary draft resolution and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u250	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Grunkled, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u251	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on a parliamentary draft resolution expressing solidarity with Afghan citizens. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution, which is important, necessary and draws attention to the problems of women under the Taliban regime. These women are threatened by the permanent loss of their rights to science, work, health and personal freedom as a result of the regime's takeover of power by the Taliban, as we read in the resolution. I am very pleased that all clubs voted in favour of this resolution at the committee meeting. It is rare in our parliament that we agree so much. Parliament may not have direct force to reverse the fate of women in Afghanistan, but we are sending an important signal to women in the country - including Afghans who come to us and even come to Rybnik, where two families from Afghanistan will settle - a signal expressing solidarity and understanding for their difficult situation, while appealing to all possible institutions and decision-making centres to join in maintaining and respecting the rights of women in Afghanistan. The world and our parliament cannot be indifferent to this kind of evil. As a club, of course, we are in favour of this resolution, and the position of the club will be supplemented by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u252	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u253	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The daily lives of Afghan women are arrests, arrests. It's about all those women fighting for their independence. The unknown fate of several of them is the great problem of all women who don't have men in their family. In fact, women who don't have men are widows and their families are left unattended. It's a big problem to even shop or get out of the house. Except for each of these dramatic stories, i.e. behind this description are very concrete dramatic stories. I was part of a government evacuation in August. I still have contact with people who expect our support. Contrary to what the government said, not everyone who was on our lists managed to leave in August and not everyone who worked with our quota is already in Poland. So that I hope that beyond divisions we will also be able to help all those who have the full right to expect support from us. I have specific names, I know specific situations, and I can honestly say that our consulates behave very differently. The consulate in Pakistan works well, the consulate in Istanbul works well, while there are consulates that really leave a lot to be desired. Not only do we have the opportunity to comment on the situation of women in Afghanistan, (The Bell) leaning over their fate, but we also have all the instruments to really help those who expect this help from us and who deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u254	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution was submitted by the parliamentary club of the Left shortly after the regime was taken over by the Taliban in Afghanistan. Today, after six months of their rule, this joint, cross-party appeal of the Polish Sejm to the Council of Ministers, to the institutions of the European Union, to the entire international community for solidarity with Afghan citizens, who are threatened by permanent loss of their rights due to the takeover of power by the Taliban, is unfortunately tragically present. Until August Ub. 20 years after NATO military intervention, including Poland, and the overthrow of the then Taliban government, Afghan women made full use of the legal opportunities granted to them: they completed their studies, founded companies, sat in parliament, had the opportunity to cover 27% Parliament's seats represented 22% of the country's workforce, they began to occupy high positions in the military, in the judiciary, in the local governments, in politics. It was a huge sacrifice. In the south of the country where the Taliban maintained their influence, it was often occupied by death. This reaching for freedom and drawing on the rights granted to them by Afghan women became a forpost of democratic changes and a carrier of the values of the civilized world in this strategically extremely important region of the Middle East. After the Western army left the country, the free world of women and girls in Afghanistan was destroyed overnight. Sharia's government is a lockdown, it's a ban on leaving, it's a ban on working, it's a ghost of girls being kidnapped again and passed on to the Taliban as a sex slave, it's a ban on men's medical assistance and the death of a thousand women at birth. The Taliban governments are also a threat of bans on science and studies for women, which have already been partially implemented. They themselves are mostly illiterate and their understanding of the importance of education is negligible. Hence, the condition of our world will be so essential that Afghan women retain their right to study, to study. It's not like in Afghanistan women's rights don't have a natural cultural foundation. In this one of the poorest and most backward countries of the world, the values of the enlightened world have been intertwined for decades with the values of primitive fundamentalism. 123 years ago, just a year after the Poles, Afghan women obtained electoral rights, in the 1960s the constitution granted them equality with men confirmed in the next constitution in 2004. Afghan women today do not want to give up their own lives and (the bell) their freedom, but they need our support. Those of us who remember even the announcement of martial law in Poland, and the sudden taking away from us with such a struggle the space of freedom, also remember how important it was to support the world at that time, even if it had a symbolic or moral dimension. All the more so today we owe the people of Afghanistan our solidarity and the condition for enforcing democratic values from the new Afghan authorities, those values on which we have built our own hopes and on which we have rebuilt our own country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u256	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. Member remotely. You're welcome. [[A Member's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u257	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, the Polish Coalition. It is on behalf of my club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives Mark Biernacki that I have the honour to present my position on Parliament's printing No. 1702 on the resolution of the Sejm on solidarity with Afghan citizens. High Izbo! Women have fought for democracy for a very, very long time. They fought for their rights, fought for their privileges, fought for them to live, work, develop so that they could build a modern society. And that's what happened. In the world, women have often been involved in building this world, creating everyday life, developing many professions and functions of social importance. Women give birth and give birth to children, women bring up young generations. We have also seen on the pages of history that women bravely fought equally with men for the freedom of their homelands. This was the case with, among other things. Poles or other Europeans. High Izbo! Since the withdrawal of the U.S. and NATO troops from Afghanistan and the return to Taliban power in August 2021, women cannot return to work, universities and schools. There is no place for them to perform important social and political roles. A few days ago, a statement from 36 UN human rights experts was published expressing great concern about the systematic exclusion of women from economic, social and political life in Afghanistan. Yesterday, in turn, the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights organised a day of Afghan women to raise awareness of the international community about the inhuman conditions prevailing in Afghanistan and concerning women and young girls. High Izbo! A very important event should also be mentioned. In October Ub. A G20 meeting took place. At this meeting, the European Commission announced a €1 billion support package for the Afghan population. This money was the answer to the first needs in Afghanistan, but also in the whole region. At this meeting, among others. EU foreign ministers have agreed that the European Union will cooperate with the rulers if they respect human rights, in particular the rights of women and girls, and if they respect all the achievements that women have achieved over the past 20 years in education, health and social and economic development. I would like to say that only through international cooperation, through agreement, understanding and solidarity with Afghan women can all coordinated actions for humanitarian and asylum policy, including the application of the Interim Protection Directive, be effective if they are shared, jointly undertaken. The inhuman treatment of Afghan women (The Bell) cannot be allowed to cause all that they have fought for to be lost for a very long time. High Izbo! Thank you very much for taking such a glorious initiative. I thank all the initiators of this resolution. Of course, my club will fully support and solidarity with women in Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u258	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, it seemed to us that progress, emancipation is natural, that it cannot be blocked in any way, that human rights are gaining an ever wider dimension, an ever wider character, encompassing more and more areas, and already women's rights are a natural thing for the normal world. I think that this Afghan example, where there has been a return to fundamentalism and the taking away of women, girls' civil rights, such as those within the meaning of the 20th and 21st centuries, that what happened in Afghanistan is a moment where we should say to ourselves that nothing is given once and for all and that progress can also be withdrawn or reduced. How is it possible that there are such people in the world, and there are many in Afghanistan who want to take away their mothers, wives, daughters, the right to education, the right to a normal career, the right to health care, finally the right to happiness? How is it that such inhumane and inhumanistic laws can be? Because it's not a question of Islam itself. There are many Islamic states where women have civil rights and it does not conflict with religion. Well, there are two factors. The first is fundamentalism, which so completely consumes the minds and above all emotions and takes us back in development. And that's very important, because these religious emotions not only in Afghanistan can lead to these kinds of consequences and you have to remember them. But the second element is that this country was not functioning, it was corrupt, and it could have been compromised. This is a very important lesson for us that democracy, in order to maintain itself, defend citizens' rights, must be efficient, must be an authority. We as Poland have a great commitment to Afghans, to Afghan women, because our soldiers not only fought terrorists there, but also fought for rights for Afghan women, for girls, for women. This is a great Polish commitment, which was confirmed by the blood of Polish soldiers, and it is very important that Poland in international relations with the government in Kabul (The Bell) adheres to these tasks, to those expectations which we express in this statement. I hope the Taliban regime will be over soon. I hope the women, the girls in Afghanistan regain their rights, regain their right to happiness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u260	Thank you very much. Remotely Mrs Joanna Senyshin. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens. It is very good that the Sejm will adopt such a resolution. The lives of women in Afghanistan under the Taliban regime have changed radically. At the moment, they've been denied access to work, to education, they can't travel without men's assistance, they're forced to wear hijab. The situation is repeated from the previous Taliban regime in 1996-2001, when women were enslaved and had no rights. At the time, according to research by international organisations, 85% Afghani experienced violence. It could get worse now. In addition to solidarity, however, the government should also take real and systematic action to help the Afghans escape violence and repression. Poland should develop an effective migration policy that will help women escape from Afghanistan and take a new life outside their homeland. We have the opportunity to show solidarity with those repressed and not make a mistake in 2015 when fear and xenophobia policies were used for the political interests of the PiS. We cannot turn a blind eye to human rights violations. We need to help women find shelter in Europe and provide basic living conditions. We are morally committed to allowing those in need a new beginning in a place where they do not have to live in constant uncertainty about the survival of the next day. As politicians, let us not allow inhumane treatment and death of innocent women in front of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u262	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u263	Women have always been the main victims of war. Women lose their husbands, fathers and sons in battle. That's what Hillary Clinton said. And this is the perspective of the resolution proposed here. This is a completely genome-centric perspective. From this perspective, men are merely insignificant cannon meat, an addition to the lives of women around whom it is all about women in this world. The fact that these fathers, sons and husbands are dying is a problem. Not for them, because they're dying and happy, aren't they? This is obviously a problem for the women who stay here with this mess. The fact that husbands and fathers and sons are dying is a problem. Only as long as women lose their workforce. In the same way, in 2018 the Council adopted The European Parliament has justified the need for particular concern for women with disabilities by the fact that disability affects women more often, who are particularly vulnerable to it because of their higher life expectancy. If we really want to stand out and care about someone here, isn't the fact that men live much less than women a reason to take care of their problems in the first place? People, in this war in Afghanistan, mostly men die. Mostly men are the deadly victims of Taliban persecution. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Who are the Taliban?]] If we're gonna bid... I'd rather we didn't do it so we wouldn't bid like this, but I didn't start it. So if we're gonna bid like this, first of all, men have always been and are the main victims of war. In Afghanistan, there is chaos, poverty and hunger, religious minorities are persecuted, Uighur people are threatened with deportation to China. And in talks with the Taliban, we have only one wish: that the electoral and educational rights of women should be a condition. You can kill yourself who you want, dear Taliban, as long as the representatives of the more valuable half of humanity have the right to vote. I am sick and tired of ignoring the problems of men and looking at the world only from the perspective of women, especially from people who at other times have mouths full of words about equality. [[Who Causes Wars?]] And that doesn't rule it out. You can be the main victim and the perpetrator of war, that's one thing, ma'am, it doesn't rule out. Of course, before someone turns the point of my speech again, I stress that the situation of women in Afghanistan is also a problem, a serious problem, but also one of many, not the biggest one. Therefore, a resolution that focuses only on this problem and only on the case of women makes our possible negotiations with the Taliban dependent, cannot be supported by us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u264	Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that none of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wanted to honor this debate today because I would like to address my question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the end of January, Norway informed the world of the adoption of a Taliban delegation. During the talks, topics related to the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan were addressed. The meeting was attended by numerous diplomats from other countries and civil society activists in Afghanistan. I would like to ask: Did the Polish Government or the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs delegate representatives to ongoing talks or at least observers who could inform the Polish party about the situation of the civilian population in Afghanistan? The Norwegian side - and this is information for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - has made it clear that it intends to define the expectations of Europe and the world towards the Taliban in particular in the field of education of girls and human rights (the Bell) and the participation of women in public life. Does Poland intend to enter into this position expressed during the meeting in Norway? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u266	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who contributed to this resolution. This way, diplomatically, we can help women in Afghanistan. But I would like to draw attention to the women of Afghanistan who are in Poland. In August, the Polish government brought over 1000 Afghan co-workers, those who cooperated in the military mission, on a diplomatic mission. They came to Poland with their families. About half of them are women. So far, we Poles have not taken care of their education. Polish language cannot learn because there are so few lessons, there are so few meetings with teachers that it does not give the opportunity to learn. At the same time, they also have no contact with the Polish environment, they live somewhere in the woods, so in this way, naturally, they do not learn language either. It's about education. Any other problem has not been solved either. So I would appeal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I was hoping there would be government representatives. I appeal to the government to take care not only of these women, but also of those brought to the Polish Afghans. They need this help as our co-workers in Afghanistan. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u268	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u269	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the situation of women in Afghanistan is extremely difficult. There's been a lot of information here. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is a pity that there is no government representative, because to a large extent from the government's impulse of support for Afghan women today depends on how intensive Poland will participate in all these activities that are to help them. Because it's obvious that they have to be run. I hereby direct the Marshal's hand or the proposal that, following the example of the European Parliament, where Afghan women's days were organised, we should send a clear signal here, in the High House, on whose side we stand that we are on the side of women, on the side of human rights and women's rights, and invite Afghan women here to share their history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that this is a very valuable initiative, but it is also an opportunity for the Sejm to receive full, reliable information about the fate of Afghans who were evacuated from Afghanistan to Poland 4 months ago - co-workers of the Polish army and diplomacy. After the evacuation, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that Poland does not leave its friends in need and they can count on help. Sadly, the Afghans and their friends have an uninteresting picture. As he writes, Politics in the article of January 5th this year, the biggest aid was provided not by the state, but by individuals, NGOs, local governments, volunteers, entrepreneurs. At least 1/3 Afghans have already left Poland, and mostly university lecturers, journalists, translators, NGO employees, doctors, pharmacists, many military and politicians have left. In a farewell text to his former collaborators, a high-ranking general wrote: "I do not understand your government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to provide full information on the current situation of the Afghans evacuated in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u272	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u273	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution on solidarity with Afghan women is very important and I am really happy - thank you applicants - that the entire Polish Sejm wants to express solidarity with them while the Taliban are making their lives a living hell. On this occasion, however, we must not forget that every religious fanaticism is a threat. Regardless of geographical width and times. And the most common victims of fanatics were women and minorities. History teaches us that it was because of religious rattlesnakes that millions of innocent women and men died. Therefore, we cannot be indifferent when also in Poland a group of religious fanatics, and often hypocrites, deprives us of our rights, calls for aggression against LGBT people, treats us as incubators or leads women to death. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I appeal to all women in the world and tell you: we will never go alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u274	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're working on a resolution to support women in Afghanistan. The provisions introduced there after the Taliban seized power last year restrict inter alia. the possibility of travelling women: they must not stay for more than 72 km without the presence of a man and only in men's company can a woman get in the middle of public transport, also in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry for the promotion of virtue and prevention of transgressions. The only way they can get into a taxi is in hijabs. There's also a ban on men's medical attention. For 20 years, Afghan women worked, studied, often held high positions. Now their access to education has been blocked again. I'm asking if the activities of the PiS, our government, will end at the reception of this appeal. It's a pity there's no one in the government to process such an important resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Other countries have intervened. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current situation of women in Afghanistan is probably an unacceptable situation for all of us. I myself am a woman and a mother, and I cannot imagine my daughters not having access to education or being discriminated against on grounds of sex, and the possibility of going to a doctor was dependent on whether or not men work in a medical facility. This resolution is the most necessary form of support, showing that this problem is being observed, but should we not, as a country, strive to develop far greater forms of pressure on the government in Afghanistan to actually move in the right direction? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u278	Thank you, Member. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards solidarity with the women of Afghanistan, who are threatened by permanent loss of their rights to science, work, health and personal freedom after the authorities have been taken over by the Taliban, we should guarantee them with international treaties and all political action. Over the past 20 years, women have shown determination and effectively fought for their rights. I am a signatory of the August agreements and I know how difficult it is to fight for freedom rights, which is why I am in favour of freedom for Afghan women with all my heart. Thank you so much for having Poland and Poles solidarity with women from Afghanistan. And one more thing: I'm the mother of seven women and I have eight grandchildren. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can't imagine they don't have their freedom rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u280	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a big realist, so I know turning 30 million Afghans and Afghans around is a very difficult matter. Ordinary declarations and good intentions can do little, but we as Poles and the Polish government can do concrete things for specific people. History one. A woman with cancer. Her husband left her. He's got three kids. One child has recently been abducted. She miraculously managed to get that baby back. The sister is in Poland. Simple question: Can we make this single woman with three children, whose sister is already in Poland, come to Poland or not? Story two. One of the sisters is in Poland. She was a cop. There's a mom and three other daughters on the scene. They are at risk because the other daughter is also a police officer, but also because the Taliban father decided to kill them because he thinks (the bell) that it's disrespectful that they don't want to be with the Taliban. Simple question: Given that your sister is in Poland, are we able to help these particular four women? Marshal, I'm almost done. One last thing. There are six people in the Abu Dhabi camp. They are Christians. It's a rare situation when it comes to Afghanistan, but that's where it's happening. Four of these people are on the Polish evacuation list. As I said before, as long as cooperation with the Islamabad consultants is excellent in Istanbul, Abu Dhabi is silent. A few weeks ago, I asked for a very simple thing, to be checked to see if these people were on the list, and allowed to give them humanitarian visas. These are the rules that the Polish government has introduced itself. We can still accept those who were either on our lists or prove that they worked for the Polish government. It's a shame he doesn't have a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, maybe he can speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u282	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u283	Specific assistance to specific women. Men too, by the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u284	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u285	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Imagine the following: The state prohibits you from traveling more than 72 km, unless you are accompanied by a certain family member. You can't go to school or study. You have an absolute duty to wear a specific outfit when you leave the house; there is no exception to that. Those like you gradually disappear from television and public space, and for every voice of opposition there will be punishment and even death. Sounds like a really dystopian movie scenario, but it's reality, the brutal reality of women 4,000. One kilometer away, Afghanistan. This has been happening since the extremist Taliban took over. As a woman, as a Polish woman, as a European and as a Member of the Sejm, I do not agree to take away women's rights regardless of the geographical width in which they are located. Solidarity is a powerful weapon, so it must not be missed when millions of women in Afghanistan cry out for help in the silent scream (the bell). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u286	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Taliban's takeover of power in Afghanistan six months ago once again demonstrated to the whole world the great evil of fundamentalism, both religious and political. The rights that Afghan women have had over the past few years have been taken from them and trampled by religious fanatics who claim the right to decide about their lives, health, freedom or even education. That is why it is so important that, at every opportunity possible, we remind ourselves of the dignity of every human being and the inviolable and inalienable human rights assigned to him. Let me remind you that we have recently heard from one of the politicians in Poland that they are idiotic. Because, ladies and gentlemen, fundamentalism is not a matter of latitude, it is a matter of a narrow mind. Thank you very much to the authors of this resolution for paying attention to the drama of women in Afghanistan (The Bell), but also for its universal character, which refers precisely to human rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u288	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Great respect especially for Polish soldiers, also soldiers from 10. The Opole Logistics Brigade, who served for 19 years during a mission in Afghanistan. 44 Poles, including 43 soldiers, lost their lives there. But I call on the Left and the Civic Platform to make sure that you are consistent in your fight against discrimination because you are completely inconsistent. Yesterday, a representative of the German government, Mr Fabritius, said clearly that Poles in Germany are an ethnic minority. An ethnic minority is a minority without a national state. There are discrimination against Poles: children, girls, boys. They are denied the right to learn Polish. The German State has not respected Article for 30 years. 25 Polish-German treaty. Where are you, where is your voice about Polish children who are discriminated against in Germany, who cannot learn Polish (Dawn), their mother tongue? There's no vote on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. For now, the Polish government has taken away Polish children's opportunity to learn German. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u291	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking Ms Katarzyna Kretkowska, who was the initiator of this extremely important and necessary resolution, so unique in our Seym, because dealing with such a serious, current problem abroad, which is the fate of Afghan women. And while our role and our resolution will have only a symbolic dimension, it is extremely necessary to express this solidarity with women who are so horribly treated in Afghanistan. I don't wish anybody to have a situation like this. But we cannot ignore the universalism of the situation of women or in Afghanistan or also in Poland, because fundamentalists and fanatics of all ointment are not lacking, even in this room, who would most likely enslave women and deprive them of their rights. That is why it is so important that the Polish Sejm, showing solidarity, also leans on the fact that women have the right to respect their rights universally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u293	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Every religious fundamentalism is dangerous - whether for women or for freedom of speech or for human rights. And if it were. Janusz Kowalski had the same powers, and he would have introduced Afghanistan in Poland for women. I'm sure of it. We saw women beating on Polish streets, pepper spray treatment, breaking their rights. And today there is no proper way to fight violence. That is why I am very grateful that this initiative came from many outstanding people, including Mrs Kretkowska, and it is important that this voice sounds from Poland. Poland, which is a country which, in the treatment of women, respects women, is probably - I am talking about the Government of Law and Justice - the views of the Taliban closest. This voice is very different from your conduct, and it sounds very strong today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People vote with their legs and run away from Afghanistan. But who's running away? All men. Women don't run away from Afghanistan. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: They're on the run.]] They run because they're discriminated against. You can't hit on women because there's whipping on the street. There's a death penalty for rape -- it's not a threat, it's a mandatory one -- and they have to go to Europe to be able to violate themselves. Women sit in their homes as ladies of the house, and men have to keep them, they have to work for them like slaves. Boys have to go to school and girls don't have to. How many girls in Poland would give so they wouldn't have to learn math. But what's more, men have to wear beards and shirts with long sleeves. And that's discrimination. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: They imposed this on themselves. It's their decision.]] I hope that you will complete this so that men don't have to wear beards in Afghanistan either. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, the Union says it needs diversity, but it wants to harmonise everything. PiS wants the Union not to impose on us, and why do we want to impose our customs on the Afghans, excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u296	Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u297	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Women who wanted to and could work so far can't work today. This affects in particular those households in Afghanistan, which are only run by single women. They can't move in public space on their own. They have no access to secondary and higher education. They are systematically and intentionally raided from public life in Afghanistan by the Taliban. This has been happening for six months and for six months now, the resolution on solidarity with Afghans by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska lies in the Sejm and is waiting for no one knows what. I'm glad we finally took care of her, but I have a question for government officials who aren't here, what they're doing to help the Afghans really, because this symbolic help is important, but what we're doing to support the Afghan women here, on the spot, and Afghanistan. In particular, I will call on the government to answer the question whether it is ready to offer scholarship programmes (the bell) to Afghan women so that they can learn here so that they can have a chance for a better life. Thank you. [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u298	But not yet, because you... [[But for Mr. Sheikh's words, I want a corrigendum, Marshal.]] In a minute. Now Mr. Franciszek Sterczewski. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Please, one minute in correction mode, Mr. President. But I'm really asking you to make that right.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u299	Shortly, Your Marshal, short. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be really different, and we're beautifully different, but let's not be offended. Counselor, I'm talking to Counselor Shejna, these words were completely unnecessary, about some weapon, about Afghanistan for Polish women. We in this Chamber, on the initiative of Minister Zbigniew Ziebra, Solidarna Polska and Law and Justice, jointly adopted a law that finally gave the dam domestic violence in Polish homes. Polish women have waited years for this. You have also voted in favour, so we may be beautifully different, but let's not be offended. I hope you'll withdraw those words. They're completely unnecessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u300	Thank you. [[And you're insulting everyone.]] Excuse me. Calm down, please. [[You've insulted me a hundred times a day.]] Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u301	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to these speeches, I would also like to refer to the committee meeting, where this draft resolution was adopted by all. There was no vote of objection. I would like to join you in thanking the applicant who tabled this draft resolution. However, as it sounded here, we all support this draft resolution and it was very incomprehensible, I think that for all of us - I accepted it even outrageously - the speech of Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Confederation, who criticized it so much. With regard to this speech, I would like to say that, yes, Christians are increasingly persecuted, but perhaps instead of criticizing this project, it would be worth preparing such a draft resolution concerning Christians as the group that is most persecuted. All this resolution does not apply, I think, to some imaginary rights of women, but to the rights arising at all from having human dignity. Afghan women are very discriminated against. This is not a situation comparable to the civilized world. Afghan women are not only at risk of restricting rights, they are at risk of death for pursuing rights. [[To the death.]] That's why it was inappropriate. I'm not a woman of war, but I think a woman can have no less rights than a man. These women's rights belong to each other. I grew up in Polish culture and the environment of Law and Justice. I know and feel every step of the way as a woman, that men in Polish tradition surrounded women with respect, help and care. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz's speech completely contradicts that. I hope the Confederation will reflect and reconsider its position. Christian rights, yes, are being violated. As a Polish woman and as a parliamentarians, I expect you to take the initiative and we will be able to discuss this very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u302	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 14 and 15 of the agenda: I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present the report of the committee in print 1927 and 1928.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm addressed the following drafts to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs: on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996 and on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. The need to adopt the proposed solutions results from the fact that the investment treaties concluded between the Member States of the European Union provide the investor and his investment from the State that is a party to the agreement in the territory of the other party to the agreement with the protection and the possibility of redress against the international investment tribunal. These agreements are challenged by the European Commission because they are incompatible with European Union law. The European Commission has opened formal proceedings on the non-compliance of these agreements with EU law against several countries. Informal proceedings have been opened against some of them and formal proceedings are considered. One of these countries is Poland. The European Commission has raised serious concerns about the fact that agreements such as those discussed today and their individual provisions overlap or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In particular, it pointed to the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and the fundamental principles of EU law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, efficiency and legal certainty of the European Union. The European Commission also stressed the contradiction with EU law of intra-EU BIT agreements on investment dispute settlement issues. The position of the Polish Republic on intra-EU BIT agreements was adopted by the European Affairs Committee on 3 June 2011. According to it, such agreements should be terminated by all EU Member States. It would be best for the Republic of Poland to decide simultaneously by all the Member States of the European Union to terminate intra-EU BIT agreements by mutual agreement under the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties drawn up in Vienna on 23 May 1969. Alternatively, this is the alternative - in the absence of such unanimity among the EU Member States of the Republic of Poland, according to the above position, it should terminate intra-EU BIT agreements either by termination under the conditions laid down in those agreements or by agreement of the parties. Since such unanimity, as I mentioned earlier, has not been achieved, the solutions discussed today have become necessary. It's about the bilateral termination of the agreement. High Izbo! The joint committees have examined both draft laws and recommend that both drafts be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u304	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u305	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on governmental draft ratification laws between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996 and on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989, print No 1894. Investment treaties concluded between the Member States of the European Union on investment promotion and protection agreements, so-called: intra-EU BIT agreements provide the investor and his investment from one side of the agreement in the territory of the other party of the protection agreement and the possibility of redress against an international investment and arbitration tribunal. However, these agreements are challenged by the European Commission because they are incompatible with European Union law. The European Commission has therefore opened formal proceedings on the non-compliance of these agreements with several countries of the European Union and has conducted informal proceedings against other Member States, including the Republic of Poland. EU Pilot, and is currently considering opening formal proceedings. The position of the Republic of Poland in relation to intra-EU BIT agreements was adopted by the Committee on European Affairs on 3 June 2011. According to it, intra-EU BIT agreements should be terminated by all Member States of the European Union, and the best solution for the Republic of Poland would be to simultaneously take a joint decision by all Member States of the European Union to terminate agreements by mutual agreement under the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, drawn up at Vienna on 23 May 1969. In the absence of such unanimity among the Member States of the European Union, the Republic of Poland in accordance with the above position should terminate intra-EU BIT agreements either by termination under the conditions laid down in those agreements or by agreement of the parties. Since the Republic of Finland was not interested in resolving with the Republic of Poland, by agreement of the parties, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki, the Republic of Poland has concluded an agreement with effect from 16 October 2019. On the basis of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 investment contracts made prior to the date of the termination of the contract will be protected under that agreement for 20 years after the termination of the contract. However, when declaring the agreement, Rzeczpospolita Polska made a declaration that arbitration tribunals established under the agreement do not have jurisdiction to deal with disputes by the investor - the State due to the lack of valid consent to arbitration of the parties to the agreement. The conclusion of an agreement will have no political consequences. The Member States of the European Union, including Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Finland, have been invited by the European Commission to conclude intra-EU BIT agreements including the renewal clauses. The conclusion of an agreement should not affect economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Finland. The agreement was concluded at a time when Rzeczpospolita was not a member of the European Union and the above agreement was intended to attract Finnish investments to Poland. Currently, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary in the Republic of Poland provide foreign investors, including the Finnish Republic, with a guarantee of the protection of investments with the possibility of exercising their rights on a judicial basis. The agreement has the status of an interstate agreement. The dissolved intra-EU BIT agreements are treated in the Polish legal order as agreements ratified with the prior consent expressed in the Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The same argument that I have just made concerns also the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland (Dawn) and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, print No 1894.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u307	In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed government draft laws in print 1893 and 1894. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. [[I'll take the other one.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u309	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the Government's bill of ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. These are 1894 and 1928 prints. The principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, as well as the fundamental principles of European Union law, such as principles of primacy, unity, effectiveness, legal certainty of the European Union, should be respected because of the very fact that they are members of this community. We hope that this will not change, and that Polexit, Poland's exit from the European Union, will not affect us. Investment treaties concluded between the Member States of the European Union, i.e. investment support and protection agreements, providing the investor and his investments with protection and the possibility of redress against an international arbitration tribunal, therefore seem unnecessary, which is even indicated by the European Commission. Moreover, the investor arbitration clauses - the state contained in intra-EU BIT agreements are incompatible with European Union law as they violate the autonomy of European Union law. It is indicated that intra-EU BIT agreements should be terminated by all Member States of the European Union and that the adoption of this bill should therefore be considered justified. As Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is in favour of this bill. And besides, Mrs. Marshal, I believe that Ostrołęka must be counted, counted, and punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club in relation to analogue printing, only with Finland, prints 1893 and 1927. This is a similar agreement, which was signed in 1996 in Helsinki, on the promotion and protection of investments, by Poland and Finland, even at a time when Poland was not a member of the European Union. Of course, at that time the aim of this agreement was to attract Finnish investments. It is worth noting that no companies have ever brought international arbitration cases - because such possibilities were also - on the basis of this agreement. But now, these treaties are currently being challenged by the European Commission because they are incompatible with European law. Some provisions overlap, some may conflict with the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services. The European Commission has therefore initiated formal proceedings for the non-compliance of these agreements with Union law in the cases of Austria, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden, Romania, Finland and the United Kingdom. Therefore, based on the exchange of diplomatic notes between the governments of Poland and Finland in July 2020... The Polish embassy asked the embassy in Helsinki to propose an agreement on the legal consequences of the expiry of the investment protection agreement, in the form of an exchange of notes. It should also be noted that Poland and Finland, of course, cooperate economically. In total, as far as Finnish investments are concerned, Finland takes 19. place in Poland. As far as the value of the investment is concerned, it is €1.5 billion. In 2019 it was EUR 200 million. There are a lot of Finnish investments in Poland. The other way is less investment - up to now EUR 172 million. Nevertheless, the adoption of this law should not adversely affect the social and economic consequences of Polish-Finnish cooperation. Therefore, the Civic Coalition will also support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u312	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present an opinion on the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. High Izbo! Polish-Finnish economic relations are governed by the provisions of the acquis of the European Union, and bilateral agreements are in force in the field of non-regulation of the European Union, including an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. According to data from the Export Promotion Portal, Finnish investors in Poland are most interested in the construction, energy and metal industries. The pulp and paper sector and services, including outsourcing, also play a significant role. Finnish investors are an important group in Poland. There are around 250 Finnish companies and the cumulative value of their investments amounts to more than €1.5 billion. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that no negative socio-economic, financial, political and legal impacts are foreseen. It should be noted that bilateral relations between Poland and the Republic of Finland should be based on enhanced development of trade contacts and R &amp; D cooperation. Finland and Poland can strengthen cooperation in the Baltic Sea area in business and security relations. Close and coordinated cooperation between Poland and Finland in the area of economy, energy, environment, security and the eastern neighbourhood of the European Union should be a well-established objective of both our countries. Therefore, it is to be expected that in view of the further increase in investment in our country, the influx of modern Finnish technologies and joint ventures in this area, the Polish authorities will effectively seek to strengthen and expand cooperation with Finnish partners. Polish universities, Polish scientific and industrial clusters and Polish companies in my opinion are also ready for this and should be interested in strengthening contractual cooperation. Therefore, I believe that this bill should be assessed as appropriate, but not indicative of the possibilities to activate and increase the potential of economic development, cooperation in the face of opportunities and challenges of Polish-Finnish cooperation. The parliamentary left club looks forward to strengthening economic relations between our countries. Poland's economy and partnership between Poland and Finland should be confirmed by an appropriate agreement, which in its essence will seek to strengthen economic cooperation, mutual benefit for both countries and maintain fair and equitable conditions for investment by investors of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party. In view of the above, I believe that ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland with legal effects is essential for the safe and formal implementation of economic, scientific and investment objectives. The Agreement defines the definition of the investment and means any type of property of the undertaking in the territories of the parties and lays down rules for the promotion, acceptance, treatment of investments, expropriation, compensation, transfer of payments and settlement of disputes. Finland is a country with a liberal approach to economic policy and guarantees meeting the challenges of globalisation, climate change and improving the labour market. The Finnish Government intends to achieve economic objectives by strengthening the science, policy and innovation sectors and improving cooperation between employers and employees. These objectives are in line with our expectations and directions of development presented by the projects and cooperation declarations reported and declared by our government. That is why our club accepts the approval of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify (the bell) the contested agreement and will vote in favour of the law on both Finland and Sweden, as these laws are perfectly convergent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives Marek Biernacki the position of the club on the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of two agreements between the Republic of Poland and these two countries on the promotion and protection of investment. Agreements: with Sweden, concluded in 1989, and with Finland, concluded in 1996 were, of course, concluded before Poland joined the European Union and we were not bound by European law at the time. The European Union has stated that agreements within the European Union, so-called. BIT, bilateral investment treatments, should be abolished and agreed by 23 Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Austria, Finland, Sweden and Ireland. Moreover, Finland and Sweden were not interested in resolving these agreements with Poland by agreement of the parties. It's not clear why, because it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the government that didn't explain it to us. They probably considered that bilateral agreements that had been concluded before were more favourable to them than agreements than European law guarantees them. There's one interesting aspect to this case. Poland accepts, in connection with these two cases, the autonomy of European Union law, as stated by the Court of Justice of the European Union in one of its disputes with the Republic, between a company registered in the Netherlands against the Republic of Slovakia. Poland has joined this procedure on the part of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So Poland accepts the autonomy of European Union law in some cases, as we know, because in some cases it does not accept. There's one big question here. If we question the judgments of the TSUE, does this guarantee investors in Poland that TSUE judgments, like those against Slovakia, will also question, i.e. we will disagree, not guarantee foreign investors in our country. There's a schizophrenia here that the government hasn't explained. Regardless of this, it is clear that we are members of the European Union, we are governed by European law. We agree with the TSUE that there is autonomy of European Union law and that the Polish Coalition club will stick. We therefore, of course, support the bill on ratification of these agreements. On the other hand, I draw attention to the fact that the applicant, that is, the Polish government, probably did not fully foresee the potential consequences of this kind of law. Because it may turn out that we will have to accept the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, even as we, I mean, not us, but the government, it is very out of hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u316	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both contracts or both projects are actually the same, so I'm going to allow myself to talk at once. I have an ambivalent attitude towards these projects or at all these contracts, because on the one hand, under these agreements there is a record of an international investment court, arbitration, which, as we hear, was not used, but this provision makes these agreements not entirely beneficial from our point of view and does not seem to be the best option. On the other hand, the termination of these agreements at a time when neither Finland nor Sweden were interested or not at all willing to do so shows our strong unilateral decision, a unilateral decision under the influence of the European Commission, because it is the European Commission that is pressing us to do so, and we meekly, obediently simply do so against the countries with which we work. So that it seems that, as always, Poland, which is declarively, even in the mouth of government representatives, is so strong, fighting for its rights in the Union, fighting to be sovereign, simply succumbs to the fact that the European Commission is ordering us again, and when the European Commission says that we have to do it, we just do it. Whether it's in our interest or not, we're just doing it. As a Confederation, we have serious doubts about whether to vote for such things, because it shows that we are not a sovereign state, but we are doing what the European Union wants us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the moment when we must say, particularly in view of the frequent situation in this Chamber, frequent attacks, unfair attacks on the European Union: the glory of the European Union, the praise of the European Commission for demanding equality of law, equality of law towards economic operators and states. This equality is very important and very beneficial for Poland. Let us remind you that all these mutual investment agreements after 1989 Poland signed under the conditions of the weaker entity, which wanted to attract investment to the country, but whose judicial system, the justice system was not reliable, and thus all those beneficial to foreign investors. Today, in a situation where we have such far-reaching harmonisation - at least expected according to the treaties, because the practice, as shown by the example of Poland, varies - when we have so much harmonised rules, it favours foreign capital or foreign capital - he is no longer foreign, he is European - is absolutely harmful and absolutely unfair to Poland. So, dear colleagues from the Confederation, if you are in favour of Polish interests, vote for these laws. I repeat once again: this is the moment when we can appreciate the European Union, when we can appreciate the European Commission, because it works in the interests of everyone, works in the interests of equality, works in the interests of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u320	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u321	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will draw a thread which my excellent colleague Mr Zalewski was kind to mention, i.e. those benefits that flow for our country and for our economy. The fact that today we are part of the economic alliance also of the European Union can be seen in our space. Our companies benefit from it, it shows the trade balance. However, this does not relieve our country of its responsibility for economic policy and economic diplomacy in such a way as to support the expansion of our companies, to support their efforts to develop other markets, not only in Europe, but worldwide. In the programme of Poland 2050 economic diplomacy finds a very clear place. We want these mechanisms to support Polish companies and support Polish companies, which can find their place in various markets around the world. Finally, I would like to express my hope that the government will not wait for someone else to take responsibility, but it will start conducting economic diplomacy itself today in the best sense of the word. We can help with that, just come to us and ask for advice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u322	Thank you very much. Please, remotely, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Circle of PPS supports the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments, which was drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. The European Commission questions the compatibility of this agreement with EU law. In this case, informal proceedings were initiated against Poland and formal proceedings against seven other Member States which concluded similar agreements. That's why it's a good thing we have such a project to adopt right now. We believe that this is a step towards harmonising the law of the Member States of the European Union and improving the functioning of the European Union's common market. My previous speakers stressed that the Finnish Government was not particularly interested in concluding this agreement. This is all the more proof that it is good that our government has already taken such steps. The same problem concerns the agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the 1989 Polish People's Republic. The provisions of this agreement with Sweden have also ceased to be valid and no longer correspond to the needs of the European Union market, and it is therefore necessary to take steps for it to expire as well. In Poland there are more than 700 companies with Swedish capital. Among them are entities such as Ikea, Nordea Bank or Volvo. Adaptation to EU law is certainly a good step towards deepening European integration and better functioning of these companies on the Polish market, as well as the good functioning of our companies on the European market. We will therefore support the government project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Anyone else want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u325	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a brief question about these two countries. I wanted to ask what initiatives have been taken recently in the field of economic diplomacy. Were there any visits to our entrepreneurs, our companies? Are there sectors where this cooperation, e.g. thanks to the support of the embassy, but also other institutions of the state, it has been established and brings benefits to our entrepreneurs? I would very much ask for such information in writing for the last two years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, it is clear that foreign policy is primarily about taking care of economic interests, both foreign and domestic. There is no doubt that today's emphasis on Russia... What prevents Russia from invading Ukraine is Nord Stream 2 and a joint statement by the German Chancellor and President Biden that there will be no Nord Stream 2 if there is an invasion. The question is whether Polish foreign policy understands this. Question to Minister Wawrzyk: Today, when we talk about agreements with two countries, Finland and Sweden, regarding mutual support, protection of foreign investment, we can also think about... Can I get a short statement? Maybe I'm asking you to answer in writing. Do you understand how important foreign investments are and - for them to come to Poland - the image of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the background of lex TVN. What are you doing to make this image of Poland really crystal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 7 June 2018, President Duda signed a bill on the termination of the agreement between Poland and Finland on the promotion and protection of investments concluded in November 1996. Almost 4 years later, we are proceeding with the Agreement between the parties on the expiry of the Article. Point 11 (3) of the contract previously terminated. This article. It refers to a 20-year period since the termination of the contract in which its provisions will apply. I wanted to ask, and ask for a written reply, whether the government in 2018 was unaware of the existence of such a record and did not realise the existence of a protective period. If the Prime Minister had knowledge of this issue, why would he put our country at risk for a 4-year period of validity of such records despite their non-compliance with European Union law? Why has Poland been unnecessarily threatened for 4 years by arbitration proceedings (the bell) and costs associated with this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u330	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS, remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u331	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am interested in whether Poland still has other agreements to promote and protect investment, such bilateral agreements, and if so, how many such agreements and with how many countries are concluded, because if they are, it is known that the European Union will question them. Are there, therefore, projects concerning their termination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u333	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we deal with the agreement between Poland and Sweden, but I would like to remind you that for several years Polish-Swedish relations have also taken place in a completely different area. Women in Poland do not have the right to abortion, and every year hundreds of thousands of them stop their pregnancy abroad, and Sweden is one of the most popular destinations. After the so-called. the so-called judgment. Polish women received a lot of support from our overseas neighbour. Many NGOs from all over Scandinavia were involved in helping them. The leading Swedish politicians and politicians announced that Polish women would be free to terminate their pregnancy. The work on this idea is ongoing. [[Your marshal, your colleague is leaving.]] It is simply a shame and a shame that the government of another country must take care of the Polish people, because you deny them fundamental rights. From here, I'd like to thank you very much... I cross my fingers for all the women who were forced to (the bell) to stop the pregnancy abroad. I would like to thank all the Swedes and the Swedish who are involved in this assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u335	Last sentence. This demonstrates the strength of solidarity between the Swedish and Polish societies. It is time for the Polish government and state institutions also to mature to this level. Solidarity is our weapon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u336	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Quiet in the courtroom, please. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u337	I see that Sterczewski's colleague is familiar with abortion. I have another question because in this deal I was interested in a side, but interesting topic. Why is it only Poland in this arrangement trying to cancel these contracts? Because I understand that they are incompatible with EU law, I understand that they bind both sides, meaning Poland and Sweden and Poland and Finland. Why are those governments not interested in saying so? Is European law only applicable to some? Have we just gained further evidence that they are equal and equal in the Union? If we have a mess in our room together, why do we have to clean it up? I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Dobromir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Czerniak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u339	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is important legal matter - supporting and protecting investment. Finnish companies are already in Poland, there are about 250 companies. This is the construction and energy industry. I have a question for the Minister: How will the Polish government stimulate Polish companies? The idea is that this capital should operate in the markets concerned by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u340	Thank you, sir. Last question, Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal for a potential agreement between the countries we are discussing today contains just a few pages of the text that straightens economic affairs between entrepreneurs, property issues, ordering responsibility issues, etc. I think that this is extremely necessary legal regulation. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the following fact. In studying, in a sense, the preparation for today's topic on this item, I have pointed out that there are few initiatives concerning cooperation between governments of a social nature. I'm interested in whether the government is leading in any way, e.g. talks aimed at obtaining good examples, e.g. from Finland or Sweden - and from them - about functioning (the Bell) and health protection. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u342	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as other countries are concerned, the last agreement - with Austria - is currently being negotiated on the extended clause. There is still a matter of agreement with the United Kingdom, but in this case we are in the process of preparing negotiations, although I note that now that the United Kingdom is no longer in the European Union, the situation is different. Mr Shejna asked a question about image issues. I think the best picture is that the pace of foreign investment in Poland is not decreasing, but on the contrary - it is growing, which confirms the very good image of Poland in the reception of foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u344	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I will answer only one question - Mr Shejna - concerning small foreign investments. In 2021 alone, 713 new investment decisions worth more than PLN 37 billion were taken. That's 92%. more investment than was in 2020. This shows the image of Poland and that Poland is very well perceived in international arenas. In fact, that is all I would like to add to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will join the third reading of the bill's drafts in the voting block. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Short break.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 49 hours 14 min 56]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u347	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. [[The black guy doesn't work.]] The meeting shall be attended by 447 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Committee on Public Finance has submitted opinions on the candidates for members of the Monetary Policy Council. The committee's opinions are in prints 1935 and 1992. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, print No 2006. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the draft resolution on the commemoration of Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz presented by the Sejm Bureau (print No. 2006). Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz On February 3, at the age of 86, Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, poet, essayist, critic and playwright died. Author of several poetic volumes and laureate of many important literary awards, including the Nike Literary Award awarded in 2003 for the "Sunset in Milan" poems. Knower of Adam Mickiewicz and author of encyclopedias devoted to Bolesław Leśmian and Juliusz Słowacki. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to emphasize the importance of the literary achievements of Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz and to pay tribute His memory. I propose that the Sejm adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz. With a formal proposal from Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition. Please, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I apply for a half-hour break, a meeting of the Senior Convention and the introduction of information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the international situation and security of Poland to the agenda. [[Applause]] We have been waiting for a debate with the Foreign Minister for a long time. Now is the moment when the eyes of the whole of Poland are directed at this and every morning there are questions of people: Will there be war? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to have a serious debate in the High House on Poland's strategic position. We want some information about the fact that the government is doing everything it can to ensure the safety of Polish citizens and also to preserve peace in Central Europe. The Minister doesn't want to discuss it with us, we make a motion: come to this bleacher...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u350	...to present the information or to provide reliable information when this debate can be held together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u351	Thank you, sir. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. The formal proposal was made by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for adjournment until Minister Niedzielski appears in the High House. Minister Niedzielski hasn't been to the Sejm in four months. Prime Minister! Mr. President Kaczyński! There was no Minister of Health in this House for four months during the pandemic. [[Applause]] No regulations, no key laws - nothing. Abdicating the fight against pandemics all over the place. And today? And today Minister Niedzielski announced once again, after the premiere: we are starting to win against the pandemic, we will reduce the limits. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Restrictions - 46,000. And you say you're reducing the limits. And when it was 34,000. That's what you guys were bringing in? I have one opinion for Minister Niedzielski: Finish your work, spare your shame. Prime Minister Kaczyński, it's time to change the Minister of Health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u353	There you go, counterclaim. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, however, Sienkiewicz should be read in what context it was said (Merry in the Chamber, applause), Mr President. But secondly, and above all, Adam Niedzielski deserves resignation, and it has been for a long time since, of course, what the Confederation has been saying for 2 years, that the COVID should be treated as other diseases, is confirmed today throughout Europe. [[A voice from the room: No!]] Today, after two years of this madness, everyone finally admits right to what the Confederation said. And if you are credible, from the Left, from the Platform, from the Holovnia Club, then sign the Confederacy's motion to dismiss to express a vote of distrust towards Adam Niedzielski. This is what should be done today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski... Ah, sorry, there's been a formal motion to adjourn. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 238 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[It's against the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! My words are addressed, and it is a great honour and honour, to the Minister Przemysław Czarnek with great words of appreciation and respect for the fact that a few days ago he accepted in his ministry a dozen citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany, leaders of the Polish Republic, who have been discriminated against for 31 years because Polish language in no German school is taught in school mode. Very cordial, Minister, thank you for that. You are the first Minister of the Third Republic of Poland to ask for this (Applause) and I really encourage you, by way of the honourable opposition, not to repeat these things. Yesterday a representative of the Federal Republic of Germany said about Poles in Germany that this is an ethnic minority. Ethnic minority, I'm translating to the students of the Platform, that's a minority that doesn't have a state. Poland has a country. Yesterday, this proxy also claimed that there was EUR 200 million. Here you go, show me at least one school in Germany, where there is a Polish native language taught in the school bell mode. There isn't. [[Voice from the Chamber: What formal conclusion?]] Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u357	Mr President, this was not a formal proposal, I apologise. Mr Paweł Zalewski with a formal application, Poland 2050. Please. [[What was that? What formal conclusion?]] [[The voice in the courtroom: Your Marshal, in what mode was this?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What was the formal application procedure?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is getting more serious. President Macron's mission most likely failed. Action to stop Russia has given us no idea what the effects are. Glory to God so far, there is no time to tighten up the situation with Ukraine. However, there are already 30,000 in Belarus. Russian soldiers. Let's see, European Parliaments are debating this because these are important issues for European citizens. Only the Polish Sejm does not talk about it, the Polish minister does not exist and I understand that this is a sign of the situation of Polish foreign policy. But the Polish Sejm, and above all Poles, have the right to know whether the Polish government is doing everything in its power to protect Polish interests. Your marshal said yesterday that she would speak with the Foreign Minister to hold this debate (the bell). I have a question, Your Marshal, whether this debate will take place and whether your mediation in this matter has led to any good results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u359	It wasn't... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u360	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the Members of the opposition! You want a debate, you want a conversation, because you say we're facing war, but I'll remind you that it's your political environment when there was a second wave of pandemics, and the situation abroad was difficult, and it was going out on the streets with slogans: This is war! It was at that time that you caused and contributed to the Polish-Polish war. [[Applause]] Today you're talking about war. Today we need solidarity, today we need unity... [[Voice from the gym: To the psychiatrist.]] ...the unity of Western countries, the European Union and NATO is needed, but there is also a unity which I do not think you understand. Unity in Poland when it comes to supporting the diplomatic activities of the government. For the diplomatic activities of each level, the President of the Republic, who met yesterday under the Weimar Triangle, the Prime Minister, who joined the offensive in the autumn, visited several countries, was also in Kiev, recently declared military support for defence weapons, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was in Washington yesterday announced our plan of leadership in the OSCE in Vienna, he is going to visit again in the near future. [[And Warsaw?]] This is a moment of activity and action, not of debate and quarreling with the state, the fights and the fights you want to cause. Today is a time of solidarity and unity. Support the government if you still have some minimal elements of Polishness. That is what I cordially appeal to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u361	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Do you see this loaf of bread that may be a luxury good in a moment? [[Voice from the room: Mask off.]] Why? Ladies and gentlemen, if we see such accounts... This is the bill, ladies and gentlemen, for the Szczecin baker, about 1000%. bigger than the one he paid in November. 700% paid at the beginning of January. Ladies and gentlemen! They want to make this bread. They want to make this bread. You can't ban them, ladies and gentlemen. They want to give this bread to Poles. Therefore, Prime Minister, act immediately for such bakeries. They mustn't be left alone. They really want to produce good quality bread that they make, they've been producing since World War II since World War II, because they came there. To them today it is death. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! I request that the sitting be closed until the Prime Minister has provided information on how he intends to resolve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Why do we need bread? We've got cookies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u363	Thank you, sir. A formal request to close the session has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the sitting will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 217 - for, 232 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1852. We vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 1852, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 442 - for, 5 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on solidarity with Afghan citizens. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1893. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1893 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 443 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. We refer to item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1894. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1894, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The additional committee report is in print No 1997-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading, which were rejected at today's additional meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u365	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft print law No 1997. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. In the first amendment to Article. 12a paragraph. 2 applicants propose to add a new wording to the calculation. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 48 - for, 243 - against, 164 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 12a paragraph. The applicant shall propose to delete point 1 and to amend the wording of point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 169 - for, 232 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1997 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 454 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1845-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Janusz Kowalski to present an additional report to the committee. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u366	There won't be anything special about Tusk or the Germans. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! I would like to present a report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the government's draft reform of the Commercial Companies Code, the largest in 20 years, written by 60 pro bono lawyers. Great respect for these lawyers, including Professor Andrzej Szumański, co-author of the Commercial Companies Code, and above all for Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, who created opportunities for such work, referring to the good traditions of the Second Republic of Poland, the Commercial Code of 1934. The Commission has examined the amendments today. One motion to reject the project has been made, it is the Platform and Mr Hołowni's grouping, and this request has been rejected. 16 amendments were also tabled. The Commission recommends adopting these amendments. At this point, however, I would like to thank you for your constructive discussion, too, Marshal Dolniak, Mr Evening... [[We're not gonna take you to the mail anyway.]] ...and, above all, Mr Krzysztof Bosak for his excellent substantive speech on this subject yesterday. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u367	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1845. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 179 - for, 244 - against, 33 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act - Commercial Companies Code. In the first amendment to Article. 18 § The applicant shall propose to delete the reference to Article 2. 585. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 275 - for, 49 - against, 133 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to amend the reference in Article. 21 The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 245 - for, 172 - against, 40 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 587 The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 181 - against, 41 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, applicants propose to amend the Act on certain forms of housing promotion. Amendments 5 to 7 and 9 to 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 4 to 7 and from 9 to 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 234 - for, 180 - against, 43 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th Amendment, applicants propose to amend the Public-funded Health Care Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 240 for, 127 against, 89 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1845, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 245 - for, 208 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council (prints Nos 1916, 1985, 1935 and 1992). The term of office of two members of the Monetary Policy Council expires on 9 February 2022: Ms Grażynie Maria Ancyparowicz and Mr Eryk Mariusz Lon. Therefore, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the Sejm will appoint new members of the Monetary Policy Council. Candidates for members of the Monetary Policy Council were presented to ladies and gentlemen in 1916 and 1985. I would like to inform you that Gabriela Masłowska has withdrawn her candidacy. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski in order to present the candidacy of Mr Wiesław Janczyk presented by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present Mr Wiesław Stanisław Janczyk's candidacy as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Mr Wiesław Stanisław Janczyk is 57 years old. He is a Member of the Sejm of the VI, VII, VIII and IX term of office. At that time, he was a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, its vice-president in 2015-2016, and now President of this committee. He is also a member of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions and, in the VII and IX term, its Chairman. He has local government experience, he was a city councilman and a county councilman. In 2016-2018 he was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, during this period he was also Chairman of the Audit Supervisory Committee. Earlier, in 2007, a member of the Management Board of Remag SA in Katowice, also served as President of the Management Board of ZEW Niedzica SA in Niedzica. Between 1994 and 2005, he worked for Bank Gospodarki Żywowej, first for 5 years in the brokerage office, then as deputy director of the branch he headed the branch with small and medium-sized enterprises, VIP clients and all retail clients. He graduated from the Jagiellonian University in Krakow, Faculty of Philology. He then completed postgraduate studies in accounting and financial management at the Higher Vocational School in Nowy Sącz. In 2017, he received an entry on the list of tax advisors. He has knowledge and experience in banking products and services and services offered by financial sector institutions. He has knowledge and experience in the enforcement of company law, tax law, as well as on the capital market in Poland, its institutions, legal regulations and functioning. He promoted Polish entrepreneurship in the countries of the European Union. Both education, distinguished financial knowledge and extensive professional experience confirm that Mr Wiesław Janczyk is a good candidate for a member of the Monetary Policy Council, which is why I ask for the support of this nomination by the High House. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u369	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Rosati in order to present the candidacy of Mr Jakub Borowski put forward by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u370	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to present you with Dr. Jakub Borowski's candidacy for the Monetary Policy Council. Dr Jakub Borowski was born in 1974 in Warsaw. In 1998 he graduated from the Warsaw School of Economics in banking and finance, obtaining a master's degree. In 2009 he received a doctoral degree in economic sciences awarded by the Council of the College of Economic Analysis of the School of Economics on the basis of a doctoral dissertation entitled: ¿Costs and benefits of Poland's accession to Economic and Monetary Union - a sample of the balance sheet. The work was written under the direction of Professor Andrzej Sławiński. In 1998-2007 Dr Jakub Borowski worked at the National Bank of Poland. First as an economist and analyst and then, since 2002, as head of the Department of Monetary Policy in the Department of Macroeconomic and Structural Analysis of the National Bank of Poland. He was responsible, among others. for the preparation of the most important analytical materials for the Monetary Policy Council, its management, NBP, including inflation reports and inflation projections. Dr. Borowski was part of the team, which in those years prepared and implemented a strategy for the direct inflation target, which to this day is the basis of the monetary policy of the central bank in Poland. At that time, as a member of the Monetary Policy Council I had the opportunity to cooperate with Dr. Borowski and I remember that he was distinguished by competence and organization of work. In the years 2007-2012, Dr. Borowski worked as a chief economist in Invest-Bank and then in Kredyt Bank, and since 2013 he has been the chief economist of Credit Agricole Bank. Its main tasks are to assess the outlook for the economic situation in Poland and the region of Central and Eastern Europe, including forecasting economic growth, inflation, interest rates and exchange rates. His analyses and forecasts are highly appreciated in economists and management circles. In 2009-2021 the teams led by him held the leading positions in the forecasting rankings concerning the Polish economy. Since 2009, Dr. Borowski has also worked as a lecturer at the Warsaw School of Economics, conducting lectures for students of the Master's degree and at courses under the NBA program. The lectures are devoted to monetary policy, theory and exchange rate policy, advanced international economy and international finance. Dr. Borowski is also a valued scientist, macroeconomic specialist, including in particular monetary policy, exchange rate policy and monetary integration. He is the author of many scientific publications published in reputable magazines. He is also the author of a book published by the Polish Economic Publishing House in 2011. Monetary integration. Challenges for Poland. He was also the coordinator and main author of the report prepared in the National Bank of Poland on the benefits and costs of Poland's accession to the euro area. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Monetary Policy Council is composed of people who are distinguished from the field of finance. In turn, according to the Act on the National Bank of Poland, members of the National Bank of Poland are appointed from among financial specialists. The RPP's competence includes, among others, the determination of NBP interest rates, minimum reserve rates as well as open market operations rules. The Act also requires the members of the Council to respect the principles of impartiality and independence by fulfilling their mandate. The course of Dr. Borowski's career, including the experience gained in the National Bank of Poland during 11 years of his professional career, as well as in the banking sector, and his significant scientific achievements on monetary policy issues indicate that he meets all constitutional and statutory requirements. He is a financial specialist with a specialty in monetary policy. He did not engage in political activities, he did not perform political functions. As a result, Dr Jakub Borowski is perfectly prepared to serve as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. I ask the High House to support this candidacy. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u371	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Gazwada in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u372	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinions of the Committee on Public Finance on the proposals for the election of a candidate as a member of the Monetary Policy Council, in print 1916 and 1985 respectively. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent it in accordance with the Rule. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 12 and 31 January 2022 respectively, these proposals to the Committee on Public Finances for opinion. The Committee on Public Finances after considering the above mentioned above. the proposal at the meeting on 19 January 2022 and the discussion decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Wiesław Janczyk's candidacy. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this request from print No 1985 at its meeting on 7 February 2022 and conducting the discussion, decided to take a negative opinion on Mr Jakub Borowski's candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u373	Thank you very much. Members have joined the floor. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this point. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u374	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The yeast that torments all of us and inflation, which is growing and with which we will probably have to live at least the next year, clearly shows the consequences of mistakes made in monetary policy. I would like to say to you that, according to the opinion of the vast majority of economists, the current Monetary Policy Council has simply failed to cope with this challenge. She failed. And it failed the whole line. [[Applause]] First, we were sleeping with the calming announcements of President Glapiński, and then it turned out that inflation was out of control. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, the risks associated with the political election of members of the Monetary Policy Council. I would like to tell you that you, the Law and Justice Club, have filled the entire Monetary Policy Council, which is now finishing its term of office and which has failed to pass this exam before our eyes. [[Applause]] I appeal to you. You have a chance to make things right. I appeal to you to take your declarations seriously that you want to fight the price, that you want to fight inflation, that you care about what inflation means in normal Poles' wallets. Therefore, I call on you to be aware of the various costs and consequences of the political choice, to support a candidate who is a very good candidate, not only competent but also politically independent. This is a real proof of the sincerity of your intentions, if you really want to feel sorry for Poles who are fighting what is happening in shops. I urge you to correct your mistake. Back up our candidate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the Monetary Policy Council is a constitutional body, it is an organ which has a great responsibility for monetary policy in Poland, it is an organ which is responsible for keeping inflation in line. As you can see, unfortunately, this did not work out for one reason or another. It is probably not enough time to analyse this at the moment, but one thing is certain that so far, in all the terms of the Monetary Policy Council, those who were independent were people with a great financial authority, were people who, in short, had their own opinions and who were able to make responsible decisions independent of the parliamentary majority, independent of the government. Today, what is happening around the Monetary Policy Council can be called a mere buyer. I do not know whether all of you in the High House know that the two candidates of the PiS club have resigned or were forced to resign. We do not judge these candidates on the substantive side. The key is for the Monetary Policy Council to include people who will not follow government orders or orders from Nowogrodzka. Unfortunately, this is happening right now. That is why we will vote against President Janczyk as a left-wing club. But I would also like to inform you about the position of the club as regards Dr. Borowski's candidacy. That's what I'm saying to opposition friends from the Civic Coalition. The Left is not petty, the Left considers that if opposition clubs represent a good substantive candidate, then there is nothing to be offended, it is necessary to vote in favour of this candidate. Therefore, the Left will vote in favour of the candidacy (The Bell) of Dr. Jakub Borowski. [[Applause]] [[Yesterday you showed pettyness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u377	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u378	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Indeed, in the course of the opinion and the election of proposals to the Monetary Policy Council by the Committee on Public Finances, and consequently by the House as a whole, we had a very bizarre counter-edance. Well, two candidates, Prof. Ostrowska from the University of Gdańsk and Mrs Masłowska, came forward as candidates or were submitted by Members of Law and Justice as candidates, passed the question and answer procedure at the committee meeting, even received a positive recommendation from the Committee on Public Finance, of which, as you know, it is not difficult in this House because the PiS roller always goes forward regardless of the competence and qualifications of people. But luckily, both ladies resigned. And very well, I would like to thank them from this place, because sitting on the Monetary Policy Council definitely exceeded the competence threshold of both ladies, very sympathetic, probably in their respectable but unfit environment to sit on the Monetary Policy Council. There is no doubt that your competence to sit on this board is Dr. Borowski. It doesn't matter if he's been reported by the Civic Coalition. It is important that he is a doctor of economic sciences, at the Warsaw School of Economics he lectures monetary policy and currency exchange rate theory and policy, which is exactly what the Monetary Policy Council does or should be competent in any case. For 5 years he was an employee of the Department of Macroeconomic and Structural Analysis at the National Bank of Poland, and it was not a gray, ordinary but very creative employee of this structure. And finally I will say that for three years he sat with Prime Minister Morawiecki on the Economic Council at the Prime Minister Tusk. Where the Prime Minister of Morawiecki was, there certainly were the most competent economists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We propose that both candidates be voted together, Your Marshal. And if you decide to split the vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u379	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u380	...we'll be in favor of Mr. Jakub Borowski's candidacy...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u381	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u382	...and we will ask Mr Janczyk to remain on the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u383	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation's recommendation is short: twice no. Why? What we are currently dealing with, this high inflation, is the result of this term of office of the Monetary Policy Council. This is due to the fact that the Monetary Policy Council at the beginning of 2020 went on the line of the government that closed the economy and radically lowered the interest rates, with 1,5% practically up to 0, to 0,1. Ladies and gentlemen, this has led to the fact that now the Monetary Policy Council is not following WIBOR. So what if she's already raised almost twice the interest rate to 2,75%? How does WIBOR already amount to over 3%? For this reason, we will not vote in favour of a candidate proposed by Law and Justice. But we have a candidate allegedly submitted by the opposition. And so what if this candidate is supposed to be very competent, educated, experienced, when at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances he admitted that those actions of the Monetary Policy Council, the PiS Monetary Policy Council or the majority elected by the PiS, were positive, praised and done the same? Your candidate is even worse, because despite this supposed competence, experience, education would behave, make the same decisions as those bad candidates on the part of Law and Justice. There's absolutely no difference here. That's why we're going to vote against. We are a group that is consistently responsible for a conservative monetary policy, not for a donation offered once by one, once by the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u385	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u386	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! According to the latest estimates, inflation could be up to 9.5% in January. In December, the annual figure was 8.6% and there is nothing to hide that this is the result of both the government and the central bank, which have in fact deepened the international crisis. And of course, the question about art is still valid. 227 Constitution, which says that the National Bank of Poland is responsible for the value of the zloty. I think today we need to shake it up and rediscover this article. Because I will remind you that President Glapiński, responsible for monetary policy, recently reported that changing interest rates would be a school mistake, and last year he was active in depreciating the gold, the gold he loved so much. It seemed more to support the government than to take care of the stability and value of the zloty. Today, Poles are one of Europe's most vulnerable and expensive, so independence from political influence must be part of a candidate's DNA to the Monetary Policy Council. The elected Sejm will share responsibility for the value of salaries, pensions and savings. We see it today when the loan instalments are increasing. Perhaps if it weren't for the delay in responding to the situation, these increases in loan instalments wouldn't be so significant today. Today's decision is also as if we gave the chosen person our savings by believing in its competence, experience and independence from bad advisors, providing security in the future. The more important this choice is. I would like to stress that in the opinion of Poland 2050 we can only talk about the premise of independence in the case of Dr. Borowski. In view of the outstanding level of knowledge and experience and this guarantee of independence in voting for a member of the Monetary Policy Council, the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 will support Dr. Jakub Borowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u388	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very important choice ahead of us. The Monetary Policy Council, the decision-making body, the body that creates the pillars of monetary policy in our country, every year preparing it... [[Voice from the Chamber: On the contrary to the Ministry of Finance.]] ...defines basic interest rates, analyses, supports the President of the National Bank of Poland in its activities. A very important institution in the public finance system. Important choice, choice of people who have a lot of practice and experience in finance, in economics, as well as in the means of functioning of state mechanisms. And such a candidate, my fellow Members, is Mr Wiesław Janczyk... [[Long live!]] ...who is a very competent and prepared person in this area. We've been talking to you for hours about the meansdrach of finance... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...when we worked at the Public Finance Committee. We also know each other from a district where we have often had the pleasure of talking about it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen... [[Today, the contest wins.]] ...as a minister, of course, also as a head of the Committee on Public Finance, as a director of the bank, but also as a management of large companies, you are predisposed to sit in this particular and very important public institution. My dear fellows! This choice will materialize today. Today we will make this important choice. I ask you, all of you, the House, for a wise choice, a choice of practice, a person prepared for it, a substance and a concrete one. And fairy tales about the apoliticality of some candidates put between shelves, books in the library, let's forget about it. [[You're doing great.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there is your candidate, young man, doctor, and, on the other hand, there is an internship, a specialist (the bell) prepared to perform this function. Once again, I recommend to you the candidacy of Mr Wiesław Janczyk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. But before the vote, I invite the Senior Convention to the back. [[He didn't.]] I'm declaring a 10-minute recess by the hour. 16.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 04 hours 16 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain why I convened a convention before the vote on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. During the debate, a letter from the ABW informed us that the proceedings had not been completed. This was especially about Mr Borowski, who is not an MEP. Mr Janczyk has access to top-secret data. There was a proposal from the ABW to postpone this vote for the next session of the Sejm, because on February 17th, the deadline for which the ABW has... [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you want to hear it or not? I might not be able to inform you. On 17 February, the deadline for the ABW to give us the information and the next session of the Sejm is on 23 February. Only then would the vow take place. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill states that on the last day of the current term of office of the members of the Monetary Policy Council, we must elect new members. The deadline expires today, therefore, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided that we will vote on both candidates, namely Mr Janczyk's candidacy and Mr Jakub Borowski's candidacy. At the same time, a request for inclusion in the vote of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Law - Educational Law, to which an objection was raised at the meeting of the Convention. We continue to consider item 16. Two candidates were nominated for two members of the Monetary Policy Council. The Committee on Public Finance gave a positive opinion on Mr Wiesław Janczyk's candidacy and on the negative opinion of Mr Jakub Borowski. I propose that the Sejm hold a separate vote on each nomination in alphabetical order. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. I will therefore put him to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a separate vote on the nominations of members of the Monetary Policy Council would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 237 - for, 214 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, elects members of the Monetary Policy Council by an absolute majority. We are voting on Mr. Jakub Borowski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jakub Borowski as a member of the Monetary Policy Council would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 206 - for, 246 - against, abstained 1. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Jakub Borowski as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. We are voting on Mr Wiesław Janczyk's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Wiesław Janczyk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. For-- 233, 220-- against-- he's holding off on one. I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm appointed Mr Wiesław Janczyk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] As the Sejm has appointed one member of the Monetary Policy Council, we will re-establish the procedure for appointment to the second position. With a formal request from Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted and not to vote today on a bill known as lex Czarnek. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] This is a law that gives the curators an education that has never been established before. At the same time, Barbara Nowak, a curator of education in Małopolska, who has committed a constitutional delicacy: questioning vaccination, ignoring the risk of COVID-19 infection in schools and not saving health and life as priorities. Until Minister Przemysław Czarnek cuts himself off from this place and declares that he will dismiss Mrs Barbara Nowak from the role of education curator in Małopolska, this law should not be put to the vote. [[Aga, sit down!]] And it would be best to never vote on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u391	Madam President, we are in the middle of a procedure and this will be decided by the Sejm in a moment. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! I request that the project lex czarnek be sent back to the committee. You put this draft to the vote at the last minute. What are you afraid of? Why don't you let people hear the discussion? [[Applause]] Do you know what your Małopolska education curator did? She forbade classes for children with children with disabilities only because there was a word in the title of the class: intolerance. [[Voice from the room: We know, we know.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Children with disabilities through your regulations suffer, and you from ideological reasons want to introduce a project that closes a Polish school that gags the mouth of teachers, which makes parents unable to decide about their children. [[The voice from the room: What nonsense!]] [[A lie, a lie, a lie!]] Even disabled children won't let you live in school. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u393	Thank you, Member. It's already out of committee, and in a moment's time, we're gonna settle this. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, print No 1993. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for this report. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: the report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws (prints No 1991 and 1993), will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Your Marshal, me on a formal matter, may I?]] Mr President, a formal proposal cannot be submitted during the vote. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I wanted to use this time.]] [[Voice from the room: That's not how it works.]] 453 Members voted. 232 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws (prints No 1991 and 1993). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, print No 1991. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 7 February 2022, the Sejm submitted a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. On 4 February, the Senate adopted a resolution rejecting the law in its entirety. You presented Senator Zdrojewski with a reasoned conclusion. High Izbo! In principle, no discussion was held when considering this resolution. [[Because you didn't allow this discussion.]] There was a resolution by the senator, one vote in favour and one vote against. It follows from the justification of the resolution that this justification is largely based on the principles of the Constitution and that we are in the High House today in such a situation that each of us, the United Right and the opposition, understands differently the provisions of the Constitution, especially the Article. 18 on the right of parents to raise their children according to their conscience. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[...you take that right away.]] Otherwise, we understand the constitution in which the State's education policy is conducted. [[Sluggish...]] Otherwise, we understand the principle of subsidiarity and the tasks that the local government performs. In the Education Law Act, this problem has been maximum politicised. [[Game in the O.R.]] You want it to be the way it was. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a report.]] You don't want the state's education policy, so there's no parents' right to raise their kids in school, so there's no patriotic education... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Report!]] [[Some Members hit their desks and chant: Report! Report! Report!]] ...so that there is no education of young citizens, future citizens of Poland. [[What kind of future citizens are you talking about?]] This is a political dispute. [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, this is not a report.]] Today the High Chamber will decide, very important for the future of Polish education and the future of Poland, the next generations of Poles. [[Yeah, 19th century, darkyard.]] The Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on National Defence... [[Voice from the room: Report!]] [[Voice from the hall: She doesn't even remember the articles...]] ...recommend the High House to reject the Senate resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u395	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. [[Conclusion, motion.]] In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 13 January 2022 amending the Law - Educational Law and certain other laws. The committees are asking for this resolution to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 13 January 2022 amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, report voting difficulties remotely.]] The Member of the Left has reported that there are problems with the remote vote. I said I'd wait. Don't be so nervous, ladies and gentlemen. [[That's what you're gonna say.]] [[But I'm nervous about that MP, the stalker, and he doesn't like...]] [[Voice from the room: What's his name?]] [[Voice from the room: Who is it?]] [[Voice from the room: ADHD.]] [[The one who used to steal the money from the tray when he was a kid.]] [[I think the guy needs a breathalyzer.]] 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 39 hrs. 16 min 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u396	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act - Teacher's Card (Print No. 1840). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Wincent Sławomir Broniar to present the justification for the bill and at the same time welcome the President of the Polish Teachers' Association.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I really come to present the citizens' initiative project under unusual circumstances and I hope that both parents and teachers, and the entire school community will remember for a long time. And I'm not talking about my speech, but it's about what we witnessed a few minutes ago. I present to the High House a citizens' bill amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter, developed by the Polish Teachers' Union and supported by signatures of more than 250 thousand. citizens. We called our initiative: decent wages and high prestige of teachers, although it should actually be understood as a rescue act - a rescue act for Polish education, for Polish education, because it will not first provide a salary increase for teachers, but is primarily a chance to save what gradually, from year to year, is scattered in each of nearly 30 thousand. schools and institutions in Poland: quality of education and good learning conditions for our children, grandchildren and good working conditions for teachers. The quality of education depends to a large extent on who teaches Polish children and young people who work with children in kindergartens, with students in schools and educational institutions. One of the biggest problems in education today is staff shortages. Teachers are missing, and the reason for this is above all a very low level of remuneration. The shortage of teachers may cause irreversible damage to the level of education of pupils and pupils and may adversely affect the exercise of the right to study referred to in Article. 70 in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as warned by RPO Prof. Marcin Wiącek. The drama caused by the COVID-19 pandemic was imposed on all of this. Polish students were most affected by the pandemic when it came to industrialised countries. According to the OECD report of September 2021, only in Mexico lockdown lasted longer than in Poland. According to a study carried out by the Evidence Institute for m.st. During these two years of pandemics, subsequent lockdowns, as well as the reform of Anna Zalewska, students lost on average 2 years of schooling. The OECD in the latest edition of the Education at a Glance report leaves no illusions: the Polish state pays teachers - please forgive these harsh words - scandalously little. The OECD experts compared the salaries of primary school teachers, among others. After 10 years of work. In this ranking Polish teachers were placed in fourth place from the end among OECD countries. Only teachers in Hungary, Slovakia and Greece earn worse. The report also compares the maximum salaries of primary school teachers at the peak of their careers. The Polish teacher's salary at the top point of his career is only 55% Average teaching earnings in OECD countries and 54% average teaching earnings in the EU. What do the teachers say? Several days ago, a teacher hired two thirds of a job summarized her earnings on one of the social networks. In January she was paid PLN 1732 gross. That's a payout for 112 hours a month, $15.46 an hour. Let me remind you that the minimum hourly rate at the moment is PLN 19.70 gross. The teacher writes: Yesterday I was curious to read an advertisement for a job, and today I read it for a reason. High Izbo! Since January 2022, a large proportion of teachers have received a compensatory allowance because their salary is lower than the minimum wage. I will remind you that from 1 January this minimum salary is PLN 3010. You will ask how much the intern's teacher's salary has increased during this period. The teachers present in the room know very well that about zero. A young teacher with a master's degree, a graduate from the University of Warsaw or the University of Warsaw currently earns 2949 PLN gross, i.e. 61 PLN less than the new rate for people without education and working at the lowest national level. After going through an internship and qualifying procedure, which is a kind of exam, his salary will increase by PLN 61, but then the total salary will be PLN 24 more than the minimum of the salary. None of you have heard of it. The teacher, who is the one to whom we give our children, earns 24 zlotys more than the person who does the simplest work in our economy. The citizens' project aims to save the Polish school from the departure of the best specialists. We propose that in the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5th Act - The Teacher's Charter states that the basic salaries of teachers at the various degrees of promotion are determined by the Ministry of Education regulation, but the amount of the basic salary of a teacher with a Master's degree and with a teacher's preparation is at least 100% the amount of the average salary in the country. When we submitted this project to the Marshal's staff, we calculated that adopting these solutions would mean raising salaries from PLN 842 to PLN 1122. In 2020, taking into account the increase in average wages, teachers' rates would be higher. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Legislative Initiative (Bell), on behalf of the citizens... Mr. Marshal, 10 seconds. I'm sorry. On behalf of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative, on behalf of the citizens who supported with their signatures the project prepared by the Polish Teachers' Union, I ask Members of the House to adopt a citizens' bill amending the Teacher's Charter Act, i.e. initiatives: decent wages and high prestige. We ask the High House to agree to our project and its decision to contribute to the provision of 700,000. teachers with decent working conditions and pay, and 5 million students with high levels of education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u398	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, President of the Polish Teachers' Association, Mr Sławomir Bronisz. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Lidia Burzyńska will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the citizens' draft law amending the Act of the Teacher Card, print no. 1840. The citizens' proposal to amend the law provides for amendments to the Act of 26 January 1982 - The Teacher's Charter to change the way in which teachers' average remuneration and minimum basic remuneration rates are to be determined. The draft law provides that the average remuneration of teachers will not be determined, as is currently the case, on the basis of the basic amount laid down annually in the Budget Act, but will depend directly on the average remuneration in the national economy. Today's presentation by representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association of the Civil Society of the bill in my opinion is undoubtedly quite a curiosity situation, because according to the Trade Union Act, the union is the organization of labour people called to represent and defend their rights, professional and social interests, which is to always protect and support teachers and help them, and not just so overly interested in their affairs at a time when the Law and Justice rule. [[Voice from the room: No!]] Many omissions and omissions affected teachers during the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[What's she saying?]] [[Voice from the room: What? Bullshit.]] I'm going to quote some of the many. Mrs. Kluzik... [[Four years' raises.]] Mr. Marshal, may I have the opportunity... [[Voice from the room: But the truth we ask...]] [[Voice from the room: Tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u400	Excuse me, Member. I ask your Members to allow you to present your position to the club. [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u401	I'll quote one of them. Ms Kluzik-Rostkowska, Minister of Education in the PO-PSL Government, said in December 2013: Teachers should work effectively up to 40 hours a week. The Teacher's card should be thrown out. It's a martial law document. [[Applause]] Let us also recall what the Minister thought about raising teachers' salaries in 2015. [[Talk about each other.]] The state budget has no further money," she said. Where was Mr. Gunman then? Where was the Polish Teachers' Union then? Not only for a few years have there been no wage increases, but there hasn't even been any valorization. Why didn't the Polish Teachers' Union then prepare such a civil project? [[Yes, sir.]] [[Because there were raises.]] The Government of Law and Justice supports and recognises the profession of teacher, the work of teacher and its importance. Let us here speak about the financial amounts that the government has allocated to the funding of the broadly understood education, both to increase the salaries of this professional group and to enrich the workshop so that the effort to educate the young generation is less. Raising the prestige of the teaching profession is one of the priorities of the country's education policy. To this end, the successful implementation of the plan to raise teachers' salaries has been launched since 2018, while the State's funding for education has increased significantly. In relation to March 2018, teachers' salaries increased by 28,5%. In addition, from 1 September 2019 a one-off start benefit of PLN 1000 has been introduced for trainees' teachers. At the level of the law was also guaranteed a supplement for the performance of the educator function in the pre-school unit - 300 PLN. However, in the assessment of educational backgrounds, the measures taken have proved insufficient to enhance the prestige of the teacher's profession. The effects of existing measures to increase the prestige of the teaching profession clearly indicate that the attractiveness of the teaching profession will not only be achieved by increasing the remuneration of teachers, but also require significant systemic changes in the professional status of this professional group. At the same time, it should be noted that the citizens' bill contains significant legislative shortcomings, in particular it is not drafted in accordance with the principles of legislative technique and does not contain transitional and adaptation provisions. The draft law also does not specify the date of its entry into force and therefore it is not known since the solutions providing for a new way of determining the average remuneration of teachers and the minimum basic remuneration rates would apply. If the High Sejm decides to proceed with this project (the bell), the Members of the Law and Justice will lean on it with due care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u402	Thank you very much. Ms Elżbieta Gapinska will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a disgraceful day for Polish education. You're gonna be ashamed of what you've done, and you're gonna be ashamed of what you've done, and you're gonna be ashamed of what you've done today. [[Applause]] [[We won't be offended.]] Today we are discussing the citizens' project, which presented the Polish Teachers' Union at the meeting. The regulation is intended, according to the applicants, to ensure that the system of remuneration for teachers is not arbitrary but transparent and objective. So far, teachers' remuneration rates are not linked to current economic and economic indicators, but they are one of the most educated professional groups and at the same time one of the least remunerated. And now you've also killed them with the Polish Ład. I would like to remind you that during the years 2008-2012, teachers' salaries increased by 42%, on average by about PLN 1000. Since the government claims that we have an excellent economic situation, it would be appropriate to link the salaries of teachers to the remuneration in the economy and ultimately regulate them. If this doesn't happen, we're in danger of leaving teachers to work in the economy right now. Already now, young, educated people are looking for jobs outside of school, and in the case of such subjects as mathematics, physics, chemistry or training, teachers are lacking, especially in large cities. What is the cause of this situation? One of the main reasons, apart from low wages, is to reduce the prestige of the teacher's profession, as well as unworthy treatment of teachers during the strike in 2019 when, as recently reported by the media, attacked by organized political action of PiS politicians and government media. There were teachers who were on strike and ZNP president Sławomir Bronarz, who was mentioned in the Political Quadrant ¿ Michał Dworczyk: He does not act like a unionist, but as a political activist. We know from Dwórczyk's e-mail that this was a planned action aimed at humiliating teachers. A month before it was written an email, from which we learn that teachers as a group will be killed and humiliated in the next few dozen hours. We could see on the web that there were attacks on both the teachers who were on strike and the president of the NSA. Several thousand institutions and kindergartens participated in the nationwide strike of teachers in 2019. According to ZNP 80% institutions, according to the Ministry - 48.5%. Regardless of which estimates were accepted, it was anyway, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest strike in education after 1989. The teachers proved themselves during the pandemic. Often they had to finance the equipment needed for work from their own small budget. In return, they received from the Ministry and Minister Czarnek, who should be the first teacher of the Republic of Poland, thanks in the form of the act of lex Czarnek, which you voted today (Applause), whose aim is to subjugate an ideological school, take away its autonomy, expel non-governmental organisations from school, intimidate the directors with penalties and cause the freezing effect. This encouragement of teachers to work makes many think about changing their profession from next school year, as reported by local government officials from large cities. Members of the Civic Coalition have checked the justification of the solutions related to lex Czarnek. The Ministry explained that it received complaints from parents related to the participation of NGOs in extracurricular activities. However, a check in the education institutions showed that such complaints were only 31 for 6 years. Why create a special law to resolve such a small number of complaints, especially since it concerned mainly technical and not substantive reasons related to the introduction of extracurricular activities to schools, mainly the lack of an opinion by the parents' council. The government is still trying to scare the teachers, especially the insubordinate ones, announcing the law lex Wójcik, where prison sentences are foreseen for them. Why such a special bill? Do other professions have such regulations? Is it different than intimidating teachers to need such regulation? No, because teachers, like any other citizen, are subject to the Penal Code in case they commit an illegal act. I believe that in order to keep good teachers in schools, encouraging young people to enter the profession, it is necessary to throw lex Czarnek and lex Wojcik in the basket and raise salaries for teachers. Let me remind you that the Civic Coalition proposed PLN 6.5 billion in the Budget Act for this year for the increase, but the members of the governing coalition rejected these amendments. The Civic Coalition Club supports the citizens' project, at the same time pointing out that the increases should be financed from the budget, and not transferred to local governments (Dzwonek), which already pay PLN 17 billion for current expenditure in education, is so-called. It's an educational gap. And what is the government's opinion on this project? Just a moment, Mr. Marshal. I quote: The introduction of a solution that assumes an automatic indicative dependence of teacher remuneration on average wages in the national economy without the use of mechanisms that take into account the financial capacity of the state may in the future pose a potential threat to the sustainability of public finances. Too bad you didn't care so much about public finances by spending light-handed money from the budget for envelope elections, public television, power plant in Ostrołęka, masks, ventilators and many other unnecessary expenses. In a negative opinion of the bill, the government will once again show teachers how much it cares about them - in quotes, how it does not care about the good remuneration of teachers, but merely the politicization and submission of schools, the central management of what is happening in them. Where's the autonomy of schools, teachers, care for a good, reliable education? Who cares about PiS? The project should be transferred to the committee as soon as possible, because these increases, quoting the classics, simply belong to teachers, and the role of the government is to fund them from the budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u404	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, who will present the position of the Left Club, will now speak. Members, you are interfering with the speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' draft law on amending the law - The Teacher's Charter is a project that hits the very core of the problems that the Polish education system is experiencing today. It goes right to the point, because it's about people without whom this system just wouldn't be. It is said that the role of school is to teach, raise and take care of young people, but it is not the school that teaches - teachers teach. It is not the school that takes care of the children - teachers and educational staff take care of them. After all, it is not the school that raises young people, brings them into the world of values, supports daily development and prepares them for adult life. Teachers and teachers do all this every day with their parents and carers. It is this professional group that Polish families entrust their children and grandchildren daily and every family has the right to expect their children to be under the wings of prepared, qualified and well-paid teachers. But teachers' salaries today have nothing to do with dignity. Many educators earn less than even the lowest national. A young teacher with a master's degree and pedagogical preparation can count on only PLN 2949 gross, i.e. by PLN 61 more than the minimum salary. In turn the contract teacher, i.e. one who has completed an internship and has undergone a qualifying procedure, receives today 3034 PLN gross, just 24 PLN above the lowest salary. Such low salaries of teachers are offensive to them, to parents and to students who are cared for by teachers, but above all they are a shame to the state and the government. Teachers, this absolutely crucial group for the functioning of the Polish state, society and economy, has been treated with contempt for many years by the right-wing authority. Underappreciated, poorly rewarded, and even as we recently learned from the famous box of Minister Dworczyk, struck with a wave of heith and humiliation, teachers became a public enemy to the rule of Law and Justice No. 1. Effect? The growing staff crisis in education, the departure from the profession of further experienced teachers and the reluctance of young teachers to work in schools. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the organisation of teachers' work in public schools in the school years 2018/2019-2020/2021, nearly half of the directors reported difficulties in employing teachers with appropriate qualifications. More than 1/3 of the directors were forced to hire retired teachers and allocate classes to teachers without the required qualifications. 12% cases failed to hire a teacher until the beginning of the school year. The average age of a teacher in Poland is 47 years. Without immediate action to improve the professional position of teachers, the staff situation in education will only deteriorate. Therefore, this citizens' bill deserves full recognition and support from all of us in this Chamber, but above all in support of the government. This is because citizens, the Polish Teachers' Union and all those who signed up for this initiative have undertaken an effort that the government of Law and Justice did not have the courage to undertake. The best thanks for the job you didn't want to do will be to vote in favour of the project and to proceed quickly over it in the subsequent stages of the legislative process. Teachers' salaries in Poland are scandalously low, and the teacher's remuneration system is today extremely arbitrary, non-transparable and unseen. The average salaries of teachers are determined by Parliament, the basic salaries are shaped by the Minister of Education by a regulation. Instead of linking teacher salaries with politicians' will, the authors of the project call for them to be based on average wages in the national economy. It is a fair solution, thanks to which salaries of this key professional group for the Polish economy would depend simply on the strength of this economy. This law will ensure a stable and fair increase in teachers' salaries. It is a chance to attract young, educated people and keep experienced teachers in it, who today, overwhelmed by low salaries, are considering changing their profession. Better paid teachers are also motivated teachers, which will benefit Polish young people and children directly. Support for this project is simply worthwhile for everyone: children, young people, parents, teachers and anyone who cares about the future of our country, because decently rewarded teachers are good quality education and the best investment in the next generations of Poles and Poles. Of course, the Left Club will fully support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u406	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Confederate Group will be presented to Artur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u407	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I got here, to the Sejm, when the voters sent me here to the Sejm, I was a teacher for several years. I was a primary school teacher, middle school, high school, college, and I also ran my own language school. Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that teachers should be better rewarded, they should earn many times more than they earn today, only absolutely not based on the methods proposed by the Polish Teachers' Union, and absolutely not based on the methods which are in the records of the Teacher's Charter. I believe that the Teacher's Charter, instead of adding further entries to it and instead of adding further increases to it for teachers, as the Polish Teachers' Union proposes here today, simply needs to be abolished. Market rules should be introduced, a school voucher should be introduced, schools should be marketed, schools should be brought into a situation where schools are private companies, schools that offer education. Unfortunately, this is not what the Polish Teachers' Union wants, because the Polish Teachers' Union has to appear in front of teachers, members of the union, that it does something for them. And it's beautiful that you can propose that you get a raise and it's going to be, for example. 100%. I wish I could be such a saint too. Santa Claus, which today is trying to be the Polish Teachers' Union and part of the opposition, but unfortunately this is not the way it should look. This is instead of a serious discussion about whether the Teacher Card should be abolished, whether it should be changed or moved to market schools and market rules, how the teacher's work should really be, and whether the penny that we have today, which is the lowest penny in Europe, is sufficient, or whether it could be worked on, what the structure of school employment looks like, when we know very well that, first of all, teachers are going to be missing in a moment, secondly, more than 65% of teachers are diplomad teachers, because the promotion path is so pathological that it is enough to sit there for 10 years and you are a diplomat teacher if you go through all levels and submit all documents. Unfortunately, all of this is on the head and it has nothing to do with what a private school looks like, as in private education it is being dissolved, in private education, which, I note, also approaches the Labour Code. There are also jobs, there are orders, there are hours counted accordingly. Anything can be done. The teacher can be well rewarded. The teacher can get a raise when the market really is that this teacher can get this raise, not when the Polish Teachers' Union thinks that this raise will be offered as part of its benefit. So that, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this. The changes proposed by the Confederation are exactly opposite to what the Polish Teachers Association proposed today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u408	Thank you very much. Now, the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will be presented by Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u409	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association for this legislative initiative, for the effort you have put into this bill and, of course, for collecting signatures, for gaining broad support for the idea which is included in this law. I would like to thank the presidents who represent the union today. This is particularly important because the government treats teachers as public enemies. The PiS government treats teachers as an obstacle to pushing their model of ideology, which they also want to inoculate at school. Of course, the proposal concerns a change in the way the average wage rates are calculated by replacing the basic amount per year for teachers in the budget law by Parliament with the average salary in the third quarter of the preceding year. We support this solution for obvious reasons: the result of this change will be a significant and very necessary increase in teachers' salaries. The second issue is technical remarks, sometimes small ones, which were captured as usual by reliable experts from the Polish County Association. They presented a very solid opinion on this law, in which of course they did not question the substantive need for wage increases, but paid particular attention to the aspect of the practice of financing the principles of the law, of course from the point of view of local government, which is also close to the Polish People's Party. This view will always be taken into account, which is why our club, in support of the resolution of this Act, will, if the Sejm decides to continue its work, which I very much hope will include amendments on the identification of funding sources guaranteeing adequate resources to the proposed changes in the remuneration of teachers. All this, of course, according to the articles. 167 Constitution, which states that local government units are provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. These are basic issues. Of course, your project, this is an opportunity to talk about the school, to highlight the challenges facing the school, to those who work in it, to those who learn in it, to whom the school is at heart - from organisational, financial to practice, to the principles and actions that we would like to have in school. Our club is always talking about the fact that we would like to have a school where we will finally teach a foreign language every day, in which children will be equal, each one will have a warm meal, and the local government will have no problem with funding and this subsidy will always be in the right amount. Finally, I would like to return to this sad moment of the last vote that took place, as well as to the recent statement by Minister Czarnek, with whom, as it is well known, we as PSL have a great, mutual, undiscovered sympathy which dates back to prehistory. Namely, Minister Czarnek spoke recently about trade unions, which he blamed for the blocked changes in the education system. I would like to remind the Minister that his political camp has come to power through trade unions. Too bad this gratitude is getting old so fast. And to the end, going back to the so-called. lex Czarnek and to vote against the Senate, I would like to remind all those who were so excited today, applauded and chanted - I am surprised because I see that for PiS Mr Czarnek has become some guru - that President Andrzej Duda in July 2020 submitted his separate project on the question of parents' decision, which organizations outside the school can conduct. And he saw it very differently than Minister Czarnek. He just saw his parents, but not his parole officer, just like the government and Minister Czarnek. I wish all those who were so happy here today that President Andrzej Duda vetoed this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u410	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Michał Grammarka to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u411	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Since 1 January 2022, the minimum salary in Poland is PLN 3010. The trainee teacher earns 2949 zł today. I hear he's about to get even. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is the start of a professional teacher today. A Member, such a normal Member without a function at the time of his professional start in this House, earns at least five times as much. When we compare the average wage level in the business sector with the increase in teachers' wages, we will see two curves that are spreading more and more rapidly on the timeline. Teachers' earnings are scandalously low. This is even sharper on European soil. German teacher earns four times more than Polish, French - three times more. It doesn't even make sense to compare with Scandinavian salaries, but the Czechs or Slovaks who are close to us are also making more money. I have great respect for Polish teachers. They're tough people. Greetings, Mom. These are people who, despite their lack, believe in the meaning of their work. They buy teaching aids themselves, work on private equipment, often bring their own paper to the photocopier. But even tough people get tired sometimes. Last September, the schools were short of 10,000. teachers. And on the facebook group: The teacher changes his profession at the moment is 18 thousand. people, people who advise each other on how to leave school. In public research, teachers give scandalously low wages as the main reason for this condition. It is worth recalling that on this catastrophe, which you call the Polish Ład, they lost as one of the first, de facto crediting the State of PiS. What do they get from you? Lex Czarnek, who deprives them of their freedom to teach young people, or Lex Wójcik, who threatens with prison. This is the reality of Polish teachers' work today. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u412	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Circle, the Polish Socialist Party will address Mrs Joanna Senyszyn in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u413	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the citizens' bill amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter, I propose a minute of silence to honor the memory of the Polish school and its education murdered by lex Czarnek, which was just passed by the PiS. Thank you. At the same time, I appeal to the President of the Republic of Poland to veto the shameful law of lex Czarnek. The pay situation of teachers in Poland is dramatic. More and more teachers are quitting their jobs. Teachers make ridiculously little money. The growing maintenance costs due to inflation combined with the low salaries of teachers lead to a situation where soon there will be no one to teach our children. Exodus teachers to other professions will continue if wage conditions do not change, but also the working conditions at school if we do not reject lex Czarnek. Or is that what the government wants? After all, we remember the PiS messenger talking about doctors: let them go. The hurtful reforms of Minister Czarnek are exactly the kind of thing that tells teachers to leave, the PiS can do without them. Maybe Minister Czarnek will replace the missing teachers with catechets, maybe he'll complement the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army, just like the paramedics in the emergency room? However, it is worth considering whether the proposed increases should also include catechists who do not pass on any scientific knowledge to their students, but merely indoctrinate and train. Let the priests finally teach religion as part of a mission, not for a lot of money. Already now, education grants for religious lessons amount to more than PLN 1.6 billion per year. And they add a lot to that. Before we free ourselves from the concordat and throw away religious lessons from schools, which, of course, must happen - until then, young people themselves, who do not want to go to religious classes anymore - can be reduced from 2 hours a week to e.g. Two hours a year. It's gonna be way too much for indoctrination and training anyway. There will be PLN 1.5 billion a year for real teachers who teach our children and raise them. So much for teacher increases is proposed by the PPS and we will make an appropriate amendment. We must remember that at present the prestige of the profession is associated with (The bell) wages, which is why the PPS Parliamentary Circle supports the citizens' bill amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter and considers it even modest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u414	Thank you very much. On this, the list of MEPs on behalf of clubs and circles has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. This is the moment: if any of you would like to join this list, please. If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u415	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Mr. Complainer and Mr. President, Ladies and gentlemen, teachers are the salt of this land, and they have a huge responsibility to raise our children, educate them and prepare for life in these difficult times. Meanwhile, the Law and Justice do everything to compose them so that they don't respect their work properly pay to actually throw them out of their profession, because the PiS simply doesn't like teachers. But, of course, the Left supports this project because we think it is in line with the needs and expectations of this environment, and above all, it restores dignity to this profession worthy of payment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the President: What is the current situation of teachers in the context of the so-called. A polish deal? When this Polish Load was introduced, did the situation improve? Perhaps there is no need for such a law at the moment. Of course, I'm joking a little bit, but I'd like to know what the teacher situation is right now, because the stories about the fabulous raises that PiS has given teachers, you really have to put them on the shelf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u416	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask questions, a comment on the situation we have in the courtroom. We have presented a project signed by a quarter of a million citizens and citizens of Poland, and here we have empty benches of Members of Parliament and Members of the PiS. We do not have Minister Czarnek with us, we do not have Members of the PiS who, for example, sit on the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. We are witnessing a disgraceful day in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, a disgraceful day. Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, who wanted to make a few nonsenses and lies, stereotypical lies, left the room. [[She ran away.]] Let me remind you that the Teacher Card is not some kind of martial law card, but that is the victory of the social side of the First Solidarity period, it entered into force after the first Solidarity period. Teachers in Poland work an average of 47 hours a week, and I will also remind Mrs. Lydia Burzyńska (The Bell). Teachers' wages were frozen in September 2020. However, the average wage in the economy increased by 11% last year. Currently, the wage gap between one and the other is 1.5 thousand. zł. The teacher's salary situation is simply a scandal. In addition to this Polish Load, which entered into force and was supposed to raise the salaries of teachers, deprived many teachers from 300 to 400 PLN per hand. It was supposed to be completed in February and it wasn't. It's just a scandal and a disgrace. I have a question for the Polish Teachers' Association: Do you estimate the scale of this underpayment? Because there was no such thing in the Polish country to pay teachers less than the employment contract provides for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u418	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! First of all, I would like to express my respect and appreciation for over 580,000. teachers in Poland for their efforts and mission in education of Polish youth. Secondly, I would also like to thank the Legislative Initiative Committee for this project, because this project is not only a right to demand a better economic situation for teachers, but a chance to talk to citizens, a chance to talk to the government and the local government about the current pay situation of teachers and to pursue a certain direction of development. The opinion of the government was also attached to this civil project. In this opinion, the government wants to tell us all that salary increases - yes, but only when combined with a change in the professional status of teachers. For this purpose, e.g. it is written that a team on the professional status of educational staff has been established. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Trade union representatives also operate there. I would like to ask the President of the Polish Teachers' Association as one of the leaders of the teachers' trade unions: How does the dialogue take place in this team? Has the government presented complementary proposals to improve the professional status of teachers, including: by raising wages and systemic changes, and how do they work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u420	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u421	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! Education is a public service and one of the most important public services that determine the future of young people. It is also an investment in these people, which, if it has the right conditions, will return 100 times not only on a personal basis, but also on a national dimension. Because it's also the power of the economy. Well-educated people are the strength of economic development. There is a clear link between the level of remuneration and the competences of teachers working at school. If we want good specialists, we need to reward them properly. I am convinced that if further Poland as a country waits to take note of these facts, the future of our children will be in worse colours. That is why we should do everything we can to keep good teachers in schools, and this project is a step in the right direction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, I would like to ask the representatives of the initiative to clarify whether the representatives of the government have been in contact with this project in the context of today's meeting. Because we see clearly that government benches are empty, which is an absolute scandal, given the importance of this topic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u422	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS treated teachers as an enemy group to break down. Since the beginning of the PiS government, teachers have been treated as enemies of this government. Teachers' wages are practically minimal. There have been no increases since September 2020. Teachers as the first group received a blow consisting of a reduction in their salary in relation to New Ład or Polish Ład. Teachers today found out that the government was so determined not to let them tell the truth at school that they had adopted a law gagging the lips of teachers. [[Applause]] He has adopted a law that does not allow parents to decide (the bell) about the future of their children. Because the government knows his biggest enemy could be young people. But, Minister, if you are listening to this debate, Prime Minister, Mr Kaczyński, young people will not allow themselves to be put in the stocks. [[Applause]] Young people will remember that. Young people will stand behind teachers. You lose, fighting teachers, you lose, fighting school. Freeze the budget reserve, give the teachers a raise immediately and start taking them seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u425	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There are already no teachers in Warsaw, often looking for replacements. In Poland, fewer and fewer young people choose this career. We're dealing with a situation where the government is looking for tools that could cause something on the Broniar that could allow a rat on teachers. A lex Czarnek is introduced to lead to a situation where teachers will be gagged when it comes to their decisions regarding additional activities concerning inviting guests. School's getting more and more oppressive. Lex Wójcik He's waiting somewhere in the waiting room in the Seym. At the same time, teachers learn that if they want to work at school, as an intern teacher they will get below the lowest national level, that they actually only earn enough with some additions to be able to believe that they are fulfilling the law on the lowest national one. Tell me who's gonna teach our kids if you're blocking the teacher's salary solutions. I have a question for the applicants: Why do teachers leave? Why do young, capable people not want to become teachers? Are wages, lex Czarnek, government actions, discouragement and treatment with disregard for teachers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u426	Mrs Barbara Nowacka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! These symbolic empty benches of the PiS and the government show, unfortunately, their attitude and to civic initiatives, and to teachers, and to Polish education. Thanking applicants for the great amount of work put into the Polish school's behaviour, it is worth to tell yourself what weak salaries for teachers mean. Weak wages for teachers, which unfortunately we have all the time and whose rulers do not want to raise at all, mean worse schools. They mean an imbalance of opportunity. They mean that kids don't get the education they deserve. This means that Polish children will not be able to compete in the education, labour market, on the market of their future on the same principles as children from all over the world and from all over Europe, because the rulers do not want to teach them well. A well-earned teacher is a teacher who has time to prepare for a lesson (the bell) that devotes himself to his work. I wanted to ask the applicants: Have you carried out analyses that will say how many teachers are leaving the profession and how many will go away? What are the data on incoming young teachers and teachers, and what are the reasons for those who are to take up the teaching profession? Because they often don't make that decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u428	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u429	This is about the future of young people. This is about the future of Poland. It is a shame that one Member sits in the pews of the PiS today, bored with it, and Mr Piontkowski jumped into government benches. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u431	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask: Where is Minister Czarnek? We're talking about a bill that's been signed by over 250,000. Poles and Poles. It concerns the existence of more than 0.5 million Polish teachers, and there is no Minister Czarnek in the Chamber, who does not come to the meeting of the Education Committee and today is not present during the debate which concerns the fate of Polish teachers. PiS rules the seventh year. The seventh year we hear from you about the need to raise the prestige of the profession of teacher, that it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of the profession of teacher, that the key in this process is the increase in wages - these are quotations. So much for the declarations. And what are the facts? The facts are: the minimum wage in Poland in 2022 is PLN 3010 gross, and the teacher's salary starting after school - PLN 2949 gross. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Half the directors report a shortage of teachers, and more than one third of them reach out to retired teachers. Almost half of the teachers in Warsaw are thinking about quitting their jobs. Fear to think about what happens in other Polish cities. What about the government and MEN? Act on the dismissal and intimidation of directors by curators - lex Czarnek, the law on prison for up to 5 years for disobedient directors - lex Wójcik, intimidation, stunt and central control of education. You have time for such laws. What about raising the prestige of a teacher, increasing the attractiveness of a profession, raising wages? It's just empty declarations and absolutely no facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u432	We are on our way to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u433	Just like you're not in this room today, you're not so interested in these things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u434	Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition, will now speak. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A day actually bleak for Polish education. The law was passed, which actually imposed party control over the Polish school, over Polish students, over teachers and teachers. There is only a lack of regulation in which the curators will be supported by the party teachers who will go to schools, just as the teachers from KW PZPR were leaving once. I've always been a big fan of education vouchers, I've always been a liberal when it comes to economic issues, as well as the management of school-type institutions. On the other hand, 30 years of experience shows that without a sustainable basis for teachers' earnings, they simply always pay the cost of changing economic crises, always at the end of which they are the victims of mistakes in the state or economic crises. Therefore, the idea that such a fixed basis for converting teachers in terms of their salaries (the bell) in terms of wages should take place... Let me remind you that teachers in the interwar period made really good money and even very good money. Minister Czarnek, who shows absolute indifference, today with his - in quotes - is a bit like Emperor Kommodus of Rome. Even when the emperor was a young man, because he was prepared to bathe too hot, he decided to throw a bathroom in the oven alive. Minister Czarnek supposedly heard something about some complaints from his parents and decided to punish the Polish school, destroy its freedom, its autonomy. Let's go back to history. Damnatio memoriae. The Senate considered Kommodus an imperial emperor. I'm sure Minister Czarnek will be such a minister cursed in history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u436	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Łośko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill envisages a long-awaited modification in terms of how teachers' salaries are determined. In fact, it restores the dignity of this professional group so that teachers do not have to leave the profession and can dignifiedly teach our children. A confirmation of the need to work on this project will be recent events. The first professional group, which as a result of the New Deal, or perhaps even a new shaft, saw lower salaries, were just teachers. They're the ones who saw these changes first. Since January, a large proportion of teachers in Poland must receive a special compensatory allowance because their salary is lower than the minimum salary. So I have a question for President Kaczyński himself. Mr. President, your mother Jadwiga Kaczyńska (The bell) was a teacher, a Polishist. It belonged to the Polish Teachers' Association, a union that is the author of this project. Why do you keep in your ranks the people who have this noble profession equal to the ground? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u438	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u439	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! I admire your courage. You can see the empty benches of PiS Members who prepared the black Wednesday of Polish education today. The day when lex Czarnek was passed will be remembered as the black Wednesday of Polish education. There is no appreciation for teachers, both for their teachers and for their children's teachers. The PiS representative criticized this project. She didn't brag, Minister Piontkowski, that you don't care about Polish school. According to OECD data, we are fourth from the end of the country in terms of the level of remuneration of teachers. Remember that. You always say we're in the vanguard. Where's your avant-garde? You close schools in front of your parents, you close schools before a good teacher (the bell), you do lex Czarnek and lex curator Nowak. A country that doesn't care about teachers, a country that doesn't care about doctors, can end. Eliminate yourselves. Everyone's waiting for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u440	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! I fully support the principles and direction of this regulation. Known to all the words: Such things will be common, such as their youth hiding cannot remain Truism today. They must find their reference to the material situation of teachers. Only an attractive wage that provides the basis for a worthy teacher's existence and offers him opportunities for development and further education will provide the Polish public school with adequate staff. In my opinion, this civic project corresponds to a fair transformation of Poland, but, above all, it goes towards saving education as a public service. It offers an opportunity to compete public education with increasingly attractive private teaching. This law is a first step, a very important step, towards achieving universal education as one of the basic functions of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We're all in favour of this project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u442	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u443	Invariably amused by this universal program of the left side of the opposition.: more money for everything. At every point, it's always the same without mentioning where the money's coming from. For someone to make 120%. mean, someone else has to make 80%. Even if you take all the money from TVP, it's not enough for all the promises you make here. This isn't a bottomless hole. First of all, I want to say that you've all been in charge. What stopped you from doing such a good idea? 120% had to be implemented at the time. medium. What was holding you back? Now it's suddenly so obvious that you're outraged that someone doesn't want to bring it in or has doubts. [[Voice from the room: You have to learn history a little.]] I don't know if you know this, but how are you gonna raise your salary to 120%? mean, it really increases that mean. The algorithm itself is mathematically unstable. Do you realize that? So that teachers can make more money, they can't make the same amount of money first. An education voucher should be introduced, decentralization should be introduced, so that this system can adjust. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can't be that a good and bad teacher makes the same amount of money according to some bureaucratic switchboard. There can also be forced science. We don't have enough good teachers to push everyone's knowledge of the chemical bindings of phospholipids. That's not necessary. [[The voice from the gym: You're lucky...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u444	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u445	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u446	I don't know if he's big-time. Mr President, you have gone too far. This isn't a church.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u447	The church is also needed. I think this bill is needed. For 7 years the PiS has chosen social groups, professional groups that are to be relevant to it, and thus regulates the pay system. Generally, wage systems have been destroyed in Poland in recent years. Teachers mostly suffer from it. On the other hand, for today, when we have galloping inflation, because this is the situation and salary of the month before is no longer a salary for next month, because costs increase so much, it is important to link the salary with the average salary that is in the national economy. Then there is a certain independence and this is the right initiative, and we will support this solution as the Polish People's Party, the Coalition of Poland. There are self-governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do the local authorities say, Mr. President? Another question for the Minister. How much education is enough for local governments today, because practically it's about 50 or 70% Because there are different estimates. That's the problem. Unfunded education. That's why there's a proposal. The Polish People's Party once made such a proposal that the remuneration of teachers should be transferred to the governmental sphere, so that it would not be a burden on local governments, and then the government would not blame the local government, that underinvested, that problems are created. Thank you, Mr President, for your cooperation so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u449	I still can't get over the amnesia. Ladies and gentlemen! The educational subsidy was established by PSL and SLD Members, and in 1986 it became operational. [[And it was enough for more.]] At that time, the state minimized this subsidy only to current expenses, there was no money for investment and renovations, and generally the Polish Teacher's Union did not want this subsidy at all, because it wanted the remaining schools as state schools to go to local governments. On the other hand, mostly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you what this subsidy looked like. She actually grew all the time, but there were cases when she grew more. It grew the most when the middle school was created and then when they were liquidated. I want to show you on the example of Łódź what it looked like. In Łódź, the subsidy increased by PLN 81 million more, from 271 to 353 just when those years of the middle school reform were. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, it decreased in 2002, 2003, 2004, as well as in 2013 and 2014. On the other hand, it rose again in the United Right government by PLN 133 million, precisely in the reform of the elimination of junior high school. This increase was really very clear at the time of these reforms. But the state didn't add that money...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u450	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u451	...and today you create such an atmosphere that you only added, and finally you reduced, as in the case of Łódź it is... Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: 40% wage added.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u452	Mr Jarosław Rzep will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u453	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I know the Minister seems to be very, very bored. I would like to thank the President very warmly for this initiative (Applause) and I would like to convey that thought to the Minister. Minister! Education, teachers are investments. Only this investment is treated as foreign investment in Poland. We are at the gray end of the European Union. If we approach education the same way, the subsidies that we... If it weren't for local governments, ladies and gentlemen, the truth would be completely, much more painful. A long time ago this idea of transferring wages to government as if areas were a very good solution, because local governments can handle all these buildings perfectly, but you must finally take it seriously, with respect for this profession, because you do not have that respect until today (the bell) you do not have, ladies and gentlemen. You're just ruining this school with your laws, and unfortunately, there's no respect at all. We call for respect, Minister, and for us to really take this investment seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski closes the list of those who have been asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u455	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Half empty, because we are astonished to see how the parliamentary benches are just completely empty. [[PiS-u.]] PiS-u. They're completely empty. It's just space. Where's Minister Czarnek? Today they pushed the lex Czarnek, who wanted to gag the teachers' mouths and smother the free school. But you're not gonna make it, teachers and students are not gonna get locked up in the stocks. But now we're talking about a law that improves employment conditions in education. First of all, I thank the Polish Teachers' Association, which collected as many as 250,000 under this project. signatures. Good for you. A lot of respect. [[Applause]] This shows that Poles and Poles appreciate the heroic work of teachers and teachers, especially at such a difficult time of pandemic, and do not agree that salaries of people who work in schools are so derogatoryly low. You've been in charge for over six years. You're spending money on Saski's palace, unnecessary (the bell) The Central Communication Port, on the propaganda wall on the border, and you can't find the resources to pay people just for their work and in one of the most important sectors of education. You want to drown money in concrete, and you don't want to invest in people. How embarrassing are you? I'm with teachers and teachers today with all my heart. During the vote, I will simply raise both hands in favour of this bill, and I hope that you too, my dear and absent from this Chamber. And if you don't, just resign, give me a ticket and that's it, and that's it. Enough disgrace to the Polish school, reason and human dignity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u456	Thank you very much. Now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Minister Dariusz Piontkowski, will address the speeches. There you go. [[Speech? The bill should be referred to.]] But the bill was also presented by the applicant during the presentation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to today's speeches, I have the impression that you only dream of one thing: that this government should resign. That's the only thing you can talk about because you don't have any other show. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, we think that's a very good idea.]] [[Voice from the room: We encourage you to resign.]] Reality is a little different than the state is trying to present it. First of all, it has to be made clear that when you were in charge for eight years, there were periods when the raise wasn't at all. Let me remind you that between 2012 and 2015, when your governments ended, teachers' salaries remained at the same level, which meant... [[50%, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u458	Please allow the Minister to speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I would ask you very much to allow the Minister to speak. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: The level of living, the level of remuneration of teachers was clearly falling, so we had to make up for the losses you left behind, and in the last few years we have led to a total increase of around 30%. We also tried to talk to the social side, including trade unions and representatives of local governments, about changes in teachers' professional pragmatism, also linked to an increase in salaries. This is probably the only element that we have in common: we think teachers should make more money. However, our proposals did not meet with any positive response from the trade unions, which practically suspended the talks. The only thing they can talk about is, as Mr Sosnierz mentioned... [[Don't lie to me.]] Madame, you abuse the words to lie, and you often miss the truth. Calm down and let the others know. I understand you can't tolerate that someone might have different views than you. [[And we can't tolerate being lied to.]] Fortunately, there is freedom of expression in Poland and you can have different views than you. Imagine that. [[Voice from the room: But there is no need to lie.]] You do that a lot, unfortunately. [[And you're still here.]] Unfortunately, the trade unions didn't want to talk about it. Hence the proposal to increase wages again since September 2022, by 30%, unfortunately cannot be implemented. We will try to come up with other proposals soon. During the debate, one Member mentioned that the union that represents this bill today was indeed strangely temporary. It correlates its activity. When political parties are governed, with which he sympathizes, he is very meek and does not actually fight for the salaries of teachers. When there are parties in power with a different view of the world, it activates, leads to strikes, protests at every possible step or offers practically unrealistic proposals to be realized. Because what's in this bill? There is a proposal here to raise teachers' salaries. The financial impact would reach around PLN 20 billion. I do not know if you have noticed that today, after very large increases between 2016 and 2022, education subsidies, i.e. one of the sources of funding for education in Poland - not only because there are own income and participation in local government taxes - increased by about 30%, from less than 40 billion to 53 billion in 2022, plus an additional 3 billion in reserve. It's a lot of money. At the same time, the ZNP proposes to add an additional 20 billion PLN in just a few days or a few weeks, but does not indicate where to get it. In your calculations, you have not noticed that there are also derivatives in addition to teachers' salaries themselves, and there is also a write-down to the social benefit fund. Nor did you draw attention to the real possibilities of the state budget. The state says you owe us, we think you have to give us $1,000, 2,000. Or 3,000. raises, and give it right away without asking where we're gonna get the money for it. [[From public television.]] Not to mention that there are errors in this bill, but that may not be the most important thing, because some things could probably be fixed in the course of the Seym. This country, as Members, will ultimately decide... We, because I am also an MEP, will decide whether this bill will be further developed. [[No, Novgorod.]] On the other hand, because of the costs and the failure to comply with the financial realities of the state budget, the government is negative about this draft law. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. A representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, President of the Polish Teachers' Association, Mr Sławomir Broniarz, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u459	They're gonna have to spend a lot of time in confessionals to forgive some of the sins and stupidities that have been told here. I apologize for the harshness of the term. Minister! Our project is no different from the project presented by you, only that according to the project by Minister Czarnek it loses 40-50 thousand jobs. teachers. This is the source from which the wage increases are to be covered. And it wasn't the trade unions who suspended their participation in these meetings. There were questions about how these negotiations were going. Last meeting of the status team... The notabene meetings are also inspired, convened on the initiative of teachers, trade unions, and the team itself was created on the initiative of the Polish Teachers Association. The last meeting was held on 7 December. What prevented you from meeting these trade unions? I asked for a meeting with Minister Czarnek myself several times, including yesterday. Somehow weird guy doesn't have time, courage or will. [[Applause]] Because I understand it's not like he doesn't want to see us. At the last meeting of the team, which you also know perfectly well, you mentioned my name several times, recalling that name, even by addressing Richard Proksy, using my name. So the unions didn't suspend anything. We want to talk, we're ready to talk. I will even draw attention to the fact that the acolytes of solidarity, which, after all, presented a similar view, did not meet with such negation, and that Mr Czarnek, trying today to revive the existence of a trade union ¿Solidarity, this section of education, mentioned that it was solidarity that proposed such a citizens' project. Let me remind you that Minister Czarnek in the Journal of Legal Gazette in October 2021 said: We do not exclude the link between teachers' salaries and average wages in the country. Was that a possibility back then? At that time, the 20 billion PLN was not a problem? Did she become a problem today? So we're paying attention. I, for God's sake, to no one, it is obvious and natural, Truism, I do not deny the right to present his own views, but I demand that the facts be kept firm. If Mrs Burzyńska, I apologize if I have twisted my name, she says that the union - and the Minister also contributed - was silent when the Civic Platform ruled, then you are mistaken. All you have to do is reach out to the Internet that remembers everything. At the time, there were at least seven major events, including the senior strike, including demonstrations, including the demonstration that we did together with the Solidarity Union on 14 October 2015. One of the Members said that trade unions also elevated the Law and Justice to power, and that is very right, but today we are not talking about the history of our authorities, we are talking about the present and about the future. I am not a lawyer, neither the Coalition nor the Left, neither do you have your sins on your conscience, but I will pay attention to a completely different state budget situation at a time when Krystyna Łybacka was Minister when the Civic Platform ruled, and when Law and Justice rule. It is here, in this Seym, but also on the occasion of other events that we hear that Poland is in an extremely prosperous period, that it is from us that they borrow money, that people come to us, that there was not such a fantastic economic situation as it is now. So let's take advantage of this, let's share this with the citizens, including the teachers who create this budget. And this is how we hear it on the one hand: we have money, we have money, we are able to give up even with KPOs, and on the other hand we are talking about shortcomings that accompany pay and teachers' demands. I will repeat, even 50% of the time when we have to divide 100 PLN, is a very large indicator, it is like the increase in prices for Gomelka, but 20% from 1000 PLN gives a completely different indicator. And today we have this situation, we're a richer country according to your rhetoric, and that's what we stick to. In view of the above, I call for us not to misconception the facts, to look at the Internet, to see what the demonstrations were in 2007, to see a prom strike in 2008 in May, to see another demonstration in 2008, in 2010, 2013 and 2015. These are the times, the circumstances in which the Civic Platform ruled. By the way, Mrs Szumilas is sitting here, who, perhaps like no other envoy on her own skin, felt a conflict with the Polish Teachers' Union. If somebody's trying to tell me that we've treated the Platform like we did, gently, it's in deep error. No minister survived as much as Krystyna Łybacka, sorry, Krystyna Szumilas in a collision with the Polish Teachers' Union. There was a question about Polish Load. Let me say this, on February 27th, there will be a published survey that we are doing among teachers, because we are (the bell) moved and overwhelmed by a lot of various kinds of comments that reach us? Speaking of Polish Deal and this deep injustice. As the Prime Minister says and the Minister reiterates that next year we will receive a refund, I would like to say and call on the Prime Minister to introduce a legal regulation that will allow all debtors to pay for gas, electricity, for the price increase from next year's refunds, if they are due to the settlement of personal tax. There is no debate at the committee's meeting. the professional status, the Minister does not call this up, and this is also a very important question for us. We are in favour of local governments not paying the salaries of teachers, hence the initiative that lies in the Sejm, which was twice, had its first reading. However, we want the teacher's salary to be part of the grant rather than the subsidy, and that is also the consent of local corporations. We are not talking about any revolution, we are talking about changing the system of paying teachers, which is a common demand of all three trade unions, and this is something that we should accept as an element of certain obviousness. But we can't and we can't... Otherwise, we will not agree to market education, to market education as the most important area of social life, because that would mean that an excellent part of a highly spaupered society would not have equal opportunities. [[Applause]] [[It's an education certificate.]] Including me. If I were based on the education market, neither I nor any of my sisters would have finished school because I don't think my parents would have been able to afford it. [[There's such a thing as an education voucher.]] The Bon of Education has ceased to exist...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u460	But please, sir, allow the applicant to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u461	The education bonus ceased to exist, died of natural death, and I don't know if anyone else remembers it in Kwidzyn. On the other hand, we note that the reform of Anna Zalewska and now lex Czarnek drives only non-public education. After Anna Zalewska's reform, the non-public school increased its volume, so to speak, a second amount, so this is the effect of such, not of any other treatment of education. To sum up, the initiative of the Polish Teachers Association supported by more than 250,000. citizens are aiming to ensure that we are not hostages of politicians so that we are not dependent on such a political party and not subject to parliamentary cadence depending on how people like to treat education or teachers. We want this most important field of social life, which each of the ladies and all of you is behind, to be properly treated in the budget of the state, so that we do not recall teachers only when it comes on 14 October or at such dramatic events as today. I appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the committee for a substantive debate, possibly to correct the shortcomings that are in this bill, but it cannot be that we have 30 seconds at the committee's meeting to speak on fundamental issues from the point of view of 600 000. teachers and 4.6 million students. Thanks again for your attention. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u462	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' bill amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter, contained in print No. 1840, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 48th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make an additional statement? [[No.]] [[No, we're just saying hello to the marshal.]] Thank you very much for this package of kindness on the part of Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. In that case, we'll begin our statements. As usual, Mr Jan Szopiński is reliable in this category. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kashubian and Borowiac community today said goodbye to the cemetery in Czersk Waldemar Bruski, a wonderful man, a well-deserved self-governmentman and a public administration worker who ended his beautiful and passionate life. Waldemar Bruski was the long-standing head of Brusy Municipality, the first head of Brusy City, the mayor of Czersk, the deputy chief of Chojnice City, the long-term councilman of Czersk Municipality and Chojnicki County. He has also worked in social, cultural and sporting organizations, among others. for the sports club Borowiak Czersk. I had the privilege of cooperating with Waldemar during my work in the state and local administration. I was particularly reminded of the cooperation that the Council of your urban rights gave the Brusos in 1988. It was at a time when I was director of the parliamentary office at the Provincial Office. Waldemar was very involved... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u464	Excuse me, but my colleague is making a statement in a very serious tone. [[Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska: Sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u465	He was with Henry Narlochem at the head of those who said, "We want Bruce to be a city." He experienced this event because the administrative promotion of Brus meant another chance of development for the entire northern part of the Bydgoszcz province. Despite the passing of years, I also remember many of his personal actions and procedures concerning e.g. building a school in Brusa or sports halls in Czersk and Rytl. It's sad that such wonderful people are leaving us. For many, Waldemar was a model of self-government and official, a direct and cordial man. He was passionate about achieving his goals. He was open to dialogue, able to work with people of different views. He was also a humble man, always ready to help, counsel, and a good word. He had the gift of attracting other socialists who were infected with his optimism and energy. To Waldemar Bruski's wife and the entire family of the deceased, I wanted to convey my heartfelt condolences and sincere sympathy. You can rest assured that Waldemar will remain with us forever in the best and most beautiful memories. Leaving, he left behind a void, but also a beautiful legacy (The Bell) for the next generations of the inhabitants of Kashub, Kociewia and Borowiacs. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Let him rest in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u466	Thank you very much, sir. And now I ask the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, farmers protested in more than 50 localities in the country: We will not die in silence. For a long time, trade unions, Agrounia, agricultural chambers, local authorities have been demanding a change in agricultural policy in Poland, demanding concrete government action to counter costs and reduce the impact of inflation. According to the protesting farmers, more than 60% of all agricultural issues have been affected, including dramatic increases in the prices of fertilisers, fuel, energy, gas or falling prices for agricultural products, for example, per kg of pigs. According to farmers, the government is not able to deal with ASF, it is not able to cope with the so-called credit support. Polish Lada. He promised to introduce from the new year the possibility of transferring farms without the need to transfer them to his successors. To this day, you can't see this project. Farmers ask whether it will be the same as with taxes that were supposed to be lower for everyone, and it turns out that a large part pays higher taxes thanks to the Polish Load. Farmers are concerned that this bill will see the light of day. Therefore, one of the demands of farmers is to engage in a real dialogue with representatives of agricultural organisations by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Nor is this readiness from the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Today, the strikers submitted written petitions to the voivodships in the voivodship offices. They asked for a dialogue. There weren't many places they'd have a conversation. There was no willingness to talk to protesting farmers, even though they wanted to pass on their arguments. Government administration mostly does not want to listen to these protesting farmers and take up matters they report. From this point of view, I also join these demands, but above all (the bell) I propose that this dialogue with the protesting farmers be conducted. Because it's not a protest. Only one organizer, or Agrounia. There are also farmers operating in agricultural chambers, agricultural circles, rural housewives' wheels, NGOs. In view of the above, the Polish village expects changes and expects a dialogue by the government party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u468	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No bird shows up low above Birkenau, although during many hours of appeals prisoners have time to look out. Smell or instinct causes birds to avoid this place. The author of the above words is Sewerina Szmaglewska, writer and social activist. She was one of two Polish citizens present as witnesses in the dark Nuremberg process, in which Nazi criminals were judged. She was born in Przegłow near Piotrków Trybunalski. In my town, after graduating from municipal school, she began her studies at the teacher's seminary. Queen Jadwiga. At that time, she showed extraordinary talents by trying various short literary forms. She debuted in the Tribunal Voice as early as 1933. She graduated three years later. She continued her studies in schools in Warsaw, Łódź and Krakow University. When World War II broke out, she returned to Piotrków and began working at the Holy Trinity Hospital. She was also involved in the conspiracy by conducting secret teaching. Probably as a result of a report in July 1942, she was arrested by the Gestapo and sent to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. Szmaglewska stayed in the camp until January 1945, when she managed to escape during his evacuation. She returned to Piotrków Trybunalski and started working on her opus magnum, on the book Dyma nad Birkenauż. This shocking relationship with almost reporter's cold describes the experience of the author at the German death factory. The realism of this work was so profound that it was decided to include it in evidence against German criminals in Nuremberg. Thus she wrote: "There is a burden on our shoulders. Or nothing's resting. We'll find out soon enough. Just a few more minutes. We will face justice powerless against those events carved forever in the cortex of the brain, just as we were powerless at that time against human violence. The trials, which took place from November 1945 to October 1946, were intended to punish the captured and still living Nazi criminals by the international community. The magnitude of their crimes has exceeded everything that mankind has ever known. Seweryna Szmaglewska gave her witness to their actions, personally testifying in Nuremberg. After the war, she sought her place. She lived in Krakow, Łódź and Warsaw. She got married and had two children. In her next books, she asked difficult questions, among others. the essence of humanity and whether, after such a trauma as the German concentration camp, one can normally live, love and dream. She continued on the subject of the camp, among others. ♪ It's gonna be a beautiful day ♪ ♪ And a scream of wind ♪ However, it was published in 1960. Blackfoot brought her the greatest fame. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The story of Boy Scouts and their holiday adventures is an optimistic praise of youth and the joy of life. The author of the Smoke over Birkenau died in Warsaw on 7 August 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u470	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u471	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On February 14, 2022, we celebrate the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the National Army, whose activity is one of the most famous cards in Poland's history. It was on 14 February 1942 that the General General Władysław Sikorski ordered the Armed Forces, an armed organization, which made a huge contribution to the fight for freedom of the whole of Europe. The establishment of the National Army resulted in a significant acceleration of the process of integrating all conspiracy armed organizations in Poland. This change has highlighted that everyone can stand under one white and red banner. Finally, the National Army became part of the Polish Armed Forces, which fought all over the world for independence of their homeland. The National Army formed more than 200 organizations and several hundred thousand soldiers. This is unprecedented not only in Europe, but also worldwide. It was the best organized underground formation of occupied Europe. The activities of the Home Army are the history of the heroism of men and women in the fight against the German and Soviet invader. About 100,000 died in this fight. Soldiers, about 50,000. was taken to the Soviet Union and imprisoned. Today, the National Army is not only a symbol of the struggle for a free and independent Republic, but also a symbol of the highest values such as bravery, patriotism and willingness to bear sacrifices for Poland. Today, on the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the Home Army, we pay tribute to all the women and men, the soldiers of the Home Army, who fought for the freedom of their homeland. May on that day the Sejm of the Republic of Poland flow towards them with respect and appreciation. Your attitude will always be a cause for national pride and, I hope, a signpost for future generations. Hello and praise the heroes of the Home Army! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u472	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mrs Klaudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u473	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday there was once again a disgrace in this room. This House has elected a judge to an organ that used to be called the Constitutional Tribunal, and now plays the role of a party body. This House has chosen to be a judge. pseudo-TK prosecutor Bogdana Święczkowski, a man who has one of the greatest merits in politicising the prosecution. The person whose majority of life was and is associated with the PiS camp and Solidarna Poland. I wonder when it happened that we are no longer surprised that such wicked people once sit in this important constitutional body. When did we begin to be indifferent to both us, Members and the majority of the population for this evil that is actually happening here at every meeting? And I ask myself this question: Have I also been completely animated here? I will never forget the words of the prosecutor Święczkowski from this speaker, who first defended Obajtek, and later considered the greatest insult that Mr Szłapka called him a lawyer. What kind of person does it take to make a word of it insulting? I wonder how my father, who has been dead for 14 years, would feel, a lawyer who has taught me that one of the fundamental human rights is the right to a fair trial and to a defence which was the first to teach me how important democratic principles are. When I looked at the prosecutor Święczkowski standing here on this platform, I had a picture of a ruthless man who would not hesitate to do anything for political purposes. I think that's what the Stalin prosecutors seemed like. Yeah, I know you're in a very special group, Mr. D.A. I have no doubt that in the company of the prosecutor of martial law, Mrs Pawłowicz or Przyłębska will feel excellent. But that's worse for Poland. I want to believe that not only history, but also the independent and apolitical Court of State, as well as the common courts will judge them all and give fair judgment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u474	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Piotr Adamowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although Mr Grupiński, a colleague from the club warned me not to say certain things, I will say certain things. With the hands of the PiS group, the ruling team wants to expropriate an extremely valuable manuscript that has been in Toruń for centuries and hand over the monument to the Hungarian government, its friend Viktor Orbán. The owner of this cymelium is Kopernikańska Książnica, which is a local government agency. Today, this appalling and oppositionous issue was the subject of a question on current issues, which I asked on behalf of the members of the Committee on Culture from the Civic Coalition. Unfortunately, from the representative of Prime Minister Isabella Antos of Moravian Prime Minister, we did not learn anything, and we wanted to find out who, when, under what authority, made such a controversial and appalling decision to take the monument away from Toruni and hand it over to Orbán free of charge. Besides, a scandalous project can deprive Toruń, Kujawy, Pomerania, Poland of parts of cultural heritage and more. As we move on, it will be a dangerous precedent allowing central government to take their property according to the political needs of the PiS. The alliance of the Jarosław Kaczyński camp with Viktor Orbán is a fact, and the gift of a unique work is to strengthen or strengthen this alliance. I wonder how the PiS camp will want to establish an alliance with Matteo Salvini if he becomes Prime Minister of Italy. I will suggest: in the 15th century, Gdansk Kaper Paweł Beneke, during the war, won a ship carrying Hans Memling's triptych, the Ultimate Judgment. The Dutch master painted this painting on the order of an Italian banker. The famous triptych is located in the National Museum in Gdansk co-chaired by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which means less legal combinations to return to Italy what was supposed to be Italian and strengthen friendship with Salvini. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u476	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska. I can't see. Mr Maciej Kopiec. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber as an independent control body for public spending is a very necessary chamber. Of course, in a country that cares about proper spending of public money, it is difficult to talk about Poland in this context under the rule of law and justice. Here, public money seems the easiest, and party card is an ATM card for your guys. 2 billion for a power plant in Ostrołęka, billions for a central communication meadow, 100 million for spectral respirators, 70 million for elections that never took place, millions of zlotys embezzled in non-budget funds like Ziobra's injustice fund, from which you finance the brown ally Bąkiewicz. Here's the plot, there's the partnership. Morning: hi uncle, evening: forest daughter. The scandal chases the scandal, the PiS treats the budget like a piggy bank from which you can take it all you want, and that's why the NIK is so upset, because for some time now he's been looking at your hands and telling you the truth that you're stealing. Because according to his calling he controls you. At first, it was beautiful because the president was politically cast. You knew you could count on Marian Banasia. Crystal man - your Marshal Karczewski spoke of him. What's changed? You want to call off a crystal man because he says you're entitled to the State Court. You want to cancel the crystal man because he knows the truth about you. Instead of a fellow Marian Banas turned out to be President of the Supreme Chamber of Control after a while, and you, the old PiS custom: who not with us, then started destroying Marian Banasia against us - at the beginning of him, then his family, and now the whole institution he runs - using Pegasus, and more than 600 times. You've been eavesdropping on an illegal state institution. It's called espionage, and for espionage, 25 years in prison. You can stay calm. Justice will come after you and you will be seated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u478	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very concerned about the information that more than a thousand localities in Poland do not have a system for collecting municipal waste water. This is not only harmful to Poland and our health, but it is also the reason why the European Commission will bring a case against Poland to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The European Union, the so-called waste water treatment directive. The waste water directive obliges Member States to ensure that European cities receive and clean waste water in an appropriate manner. The idea is to avoid taking them back to the waters and thus avoid polluting the rivers. This directive aims to protect human health and the environment. Full implementation by Member States is therefore essential. But Poland does not implement it, which is why the European Commission is complaining to Poland to the TSUE. Poland should have met the requirements of the Wastewater Directive already in 2015. Meanwhile, about 1,000. cities are still draining sewers into rivers, lakes, the sea without proper cleaning. In more than 400 agglomerations where waste water is discharged in sensitive areas, Poland has not provided more stringent treatment in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. The Commission called on Poland to remedy the deficiencies as early as 2018. Two years later, she issued another statement on this matter, which was the last step before she brought an action before the European Court of Justice. The Commission considers that despite some progress and financial support under the European Union's cohesion policy, the efforts of the Polish authorities have so far been unsatisfactory and insufficient. It will therefore go to the Court of Justice of the European Union. And the government, instead of getting to work and implementing the sewage directive for our health and development of Poland, will again blame the European Union for possible sanctions. In a moment we can pay further penalties, and it is us, citizens and citizens, who will pay for them instead of the real culprit - the Law and Justice, who fail to fulfil their duties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u480	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish freight market for transport services, freight forwarding, logistics is worth PLN 118 billion. In this sector, Poland is unrivalled in the European Union. According to Eurostat data, Polish companies transported nearly 270 million tons of cargo, representing 23% of EU road freight. The development of the transport industry in Poland has been influenced, among others. liberalisation of EU rules. Unfortunately, some carriers report that the rules can incomprehensiblely make business even though they are our national regulations. If the trader wishes to carry out international transport, he must be authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. Such authorisation shall be obtained from the old man or the President of the city competent for residence or the main road transport inspector. After verification of the documents, the Chief Road Transport Inspector shall issue a Community licence for the international commercial carriage of goods and an extract from the Community licence. The problem arises in the case of registration of further trucks. For each vehicle a discharge from the said licence is required also issued by the main road transport inspector. The waiting time for the alleged discharge is one month, but it may extend up to two months. If we add to this the fact that for nearly 2 years the Main Road Transport Inspector has been working in the form of a remote, real time for obtaining discharge may exceed 2 months. Therefore, despite having a car in exceptional cases for more than 2 months, the carrier cannot make a profit. At that time, the carrier is unable to obtain a zloty of income and is forced to cover all costs associated with carrying out such activities. At that time, the car owner must pay for, for example, car insurance, transportation tax and often car leasing fees. Such a cumbersome process of obtaining a copy of the licence only limits the potential of the entire transport sector. In the 21st century, in an era of well-functioning profile of trust, it is possible to improve the whole procedure and it is also in the interest of both transport companies and the state budget. For within these 2 months of waiting for a write-off (the bell) this car could already work for the carrier and thus generate revenue to the state budget for tax and other danins. This process is as optimized as possible, as our western neighbours are an example. In Germany, the process of obtaining a licence lasts an average of 2 weeks. I ask the competent minister to take an interest in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u482	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that, together with colleagues from the parliamentary benches, we have established one of the patrons of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, a pioneer in the oil industry, an inventor of the oil lamp and an independence activist. In January this year. is the 140th anniversary of death, and in March the 200th anniversary of this extraordinary man's birth. His greatest achievements are the distillation of petroleum oil and then its use for lighting or the opening of the first oil mine in Bóbrka. What should be paid particular attention to is his independence and charity activities: supporting national liberation movements, building schools and churches, or establishing a Bóbrka kasa bracka mine, the then employee insurance system for mines. For his charity, Pope Pius IX gave Ignace Łukasiewicz the title of the papal chamberlain and awarded him the Order of Saint Grzegorz. Hello and the glory of his memory! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've had some very difficult months behind us. A powerful migration crisis has led to a situation where very important political decisions had to be made quickly and under pressure of time. The Polish government decided to create a barrier, and with the new year the construction of the wall on the Polish-Belarusian border began. The investment has had its supporters and opponents from the beginning. These others keep coming. The fact that part of the wall is to be located in the Białowieża Forest raises huge controversy. 1500 scientists, more than 150 non-governmental organisations from around the world and residents of the Białowieża Forest called on the European Commission to intervene and to stop construction work immediately. Scientists believe that building a wall - I quote - on many sections it will interfere with protected and valuable natural areas, among others. with six areas of Nature 2000: Białowieża Forest, Augustów Ostoia, Knyszyńska Ostoia or Biebrzańska Ostoia. Biology experts believe that the consequences will be dramatic and will lead to permanent disruption of the functional connectivity of ecological corridors on a national and European scale. This can lead to, among other things. to the collapse of the Polish low-level population of lynx. Robert Maslak from the Faculty of Biological Sciences at the University of Wroclaw thought that what is happening at the border was scandalous, and building a wall in such a region is just as crazy as building a skyscraper on Wawel. I think we all agree that the Bialowieza Forest is our national treasure and we should protect it. Consideration should be given to solutions that minimise the negative impact of construction on nature. The scientific opinions on investment at the Polish-Belarusian border should be transposed as soon as possible and with full care. Deputy Minister Małgorzata Golińska informed that there would be crossings for wild game. However, it is not known what concrete solutions will be applied, how many such transitions will be and whether they will not become the weakest point of the entire security. This is information that should be communicated to the public as soon as possible. There is still time to change the investment plan so that it affects valuable species and natural habitats as little as possible in the Białowieża Forest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u486	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech today is actually an appeal, not the first one, to the government. I listen with interest to the information and opinions of experts who stress that January was a record month in terms of energy production from wind turbines. With sufficient wind, wind power plants cover up to 30% of domestic electricity demand. As the former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Janusz Steinhoff stressed, the government's wrong decision in 2016 unfortunately completely frozen the development of land wind energy. By 2015, we had a very large increase in the number of land windmills. The introduction of a restrictive law, so-called 10H rule, which determines the minimum distance of residential buildings from windmills, caused that after the entry into force of this law practically no new wind investment in our country began. Everything was practically blocked, to the detriment of the Polish energy mix. I hope that there will be an agreement over political divisions, because investing in RES is an absolute necessity. According to experts, new wind farms could guarantee between PLN 70 and 133 billion of GDP growth. A parallel expansion of transmission networks is also necessary, which reach the limits of their capacity. We need a new law. I hear the amendment of the 10H Act is due to go to the Council of Ministers in the second quarter. Of course, it is a socially sensitive subject, but all the more so it is necessary to take wise, sensible measures that will bring benefits. All of us. It's a very urgent matter. There's nothing to wait for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no greater tragedy for parents than the death of one's own child. Each death is unimaginable pain, suffering, and helplessness experienced by family and loved ones. Many of these tragedies could be avoided if the disease was diagnosed and treated in time. Each year there is an increase in the number of young people who have not been helped, those who have taken their own lives, those who have not been given professional support. In 2020, 843 children attempted suicide and 107 children were killed as a result of suicide attempts. The vast majority of cases, as many as 90% Young patients admitted to psychiatric hospitals as a matter of urgency are patients after suicide attempts. In Pomorskie Voivodship alone, the number of suicide attempts during the pandemic increased three times. The number of psychiatric beds for children and adolescents in the Pomeranian Voivodeship is only 46. The situation is so dramatic that the youngest patients in urgent cases are taken over the corridors of mattresses. The biggest problem, however, is not the bed base, but the chronic lack of medical staff, especially qualified psychiatrists. The pay for psychiatric doctors offered under the state health system is unattractive and in no way competitive against rates offered by non-public entities. If there isn't enough staff supply today, at least care should be taken to stop the drain of doctors from psychiatric hospitals. The dramatic situation in the psychiatry of children and young people requires decisive steps that must be taken today, not in a few months or several years. Every day of idleness, every day of waiting for decisions means more victims. If we don't take care of the mental condition today, the health of the youngest, the problems will come back with multiple force in years or decades. But then it may be too late for treatment. I would also like to draw attention to today's meeting of the Health Committee on palliative and hospice care for children and young people. Unfortunately, in the proceedings of the Committee on Health, despite the invitation that there was no Ombudsman or representative of the office to mention good practice or legislation. This is the case in practice for a public office by a spokesman who pays much attention to worldview issues, while real concern for children, including those most affected by fate... Because of him, it's not treated with due respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u490	Thank you very much. Ms Joan Lichocka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On February 3, 2022, Professor Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, poet, playwright, essayist, writer and literary critic, author of many award-winning poetic books, author of essays about great poets such as Juliusz Słowacki, Bolesław Leśmian or Alexander Fredro, and above all Adam Mickiewicz died in his home in Milanówk. Mickiewicz Rymkiewicz devoted his series entitled: It's like a fabulous crane that's been around for many years. Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz is also the author of loud works devoted to Polish spirituality and identity. ż Wielki Księż, ż Wielki ¿Samuel Zborowski ¿, ¿Kinderzenż ¿ and ¿Reytan. The fall of Poland already belongs to the canon of books about our spiritual history. We mourn one of the greatest poets of contemporary times, but not only a poet, also a hangman, who shaped the way many Poles think and who brought back the deep meaning of what Polishness is. Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz leaves in the Year of Romanticism established by the Sejm. Oh, the neoclassic joined Mickiewicz, Slovak, Norwid and their heirs, such as Wyspiański or Gajcy. It is according to such hierarchy that we should look at Jarosław Mark Rymkiewicz - the true art and genius that serve the spiritual strength of the nation. There is no doubt that this hierarchy will be clear to posterity. Master of Milanówka! Today, on the day of your funeral, the Seym honors you. We all thank you for your work, from which generations will draw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u492	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u493	High Seym! Although there are statements, the room is already empty, I hope that this content will reach the addressees, i.e. the entire opposition, which today voted on the basis of false grounds as regards the election of representatives to the Monetary Policy Council. Well, we had tirades here as part of our speeches. Especially to Prof. Darius Rosati, I resent the fact that he did not pass on what was happening at the meeting of the finance committee when it came to the speeches of his candidate. His candidate did not say what Mr Rosati said. Well, he praised, I am talking about Dr. Jakub Borowski, the actions taken in the fight against inflation, both on the part of the National Bank of Poland and on the part of the government, saying that the causes of inflation are more than 70% external factors. This did not sound at all, but it was said that this expensive inflation was the fault of this PiS government. Well, it's exactly the opposite. The State, as an opposition, has a stake in making these inflations because of their external factors. But that's chapter two. The most important thing is to convey the truth that your candidate highly assessed both the government's actions and the activities of the National Bank of Poland, which are similar to those of other central banks, e.g. the European Central Bank or the American Central Bank. I hope that this news will reach those who are interested, so that we will not hear later such fairy tales about the alternative false reality that I have heard here in some statements, especially from Mrs Jachira. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u494	Thank you. The statement will be made by Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u495	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In 2001, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution in which it recognised the merits of organizations and groups of independence, which, after the end of World War II, decided to undertake an unequal fight for the sovereignty and independence of Poland. In this way the Sejm paid tribute to the fallen and murdered and to all the imprisoned and persecuted members of the Association of Freedom and Independence. By Act dated 3 February 2011, the Polish Sejm established on 1 March the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. On this occasion, it is worth recalling that President Lech Kaczyński took the legislative initiative on the adoption of a new holiday in 2010. The explanatory statement emphasizes that the establishment of the feast is a tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for their testimony of valor, unbreakable patriotic attitude and attachment to patriotic traditions, for the blood shed in defence of their homeland. Unfortunately, after the Smolensk disaster, the Sejm passed the bill. On 9 February 2011, 11 years ago, this law was signed by the then President Bronisław Komorowski. Yesterday, the Sejm celebrated a minute of silence in memory of one of the most outstanding soldiers of the anti-communist underground. It's about Zygmunt Szendzielarze Łupaszka, who 71 years ago in the prison in Mokotów in Warsaw became like the victims of the Katyn crime murdered by communist oppressors with a shot to the back of the head. Three other officers of the Vilnius National Army were murdered with him at the time. Major Szendzielaryz was born in March 1910. He was the legendary commander of the 5th Vilnius National Army Brigade. He fought in the September campaign in Vilnius. During the war, he became involved in underground activities. He belonged to the Home Army. After the war, he didn't put up a gun. He continued to fight the communist regime. Unfortunately, yesterday wasn't without bad incidents. Not all Members honored the memory of this outstanding Pole who loved our homeland over his own life. It is sad that after 30 years, after changes in the system, part of the Polish parliament are people who object to Polish heroes and try to return to, it seems, forgotten, lying, and even, I would say, a vile and shameful rhetoric from the times of the Polish People's Republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we have to go back to learning the history of our homeland in schools. Today, we must be reminded not only children in schools, but also, as you can see, adults about heroes who fought to defend free Poland, and to bring their figures closer. Many heroic acts, fights, raids and uprisings have been recorded in the history of our homeland. Against this background, anti-communist underground soldiers stand out, who, despite their lack of success, engaged in an uneven fight. You have to tell me who was the hero and who was the criminal. My statement today it is also an expression of thanks to all those who are fighting for the memory of the true history of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u496	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A mother is the most important person in a child's life, regardless of how old a child is, whether she is a month old, 2 years old, 5, 14 or even 50 years old. Why is mom so important, so important in the life of a child? There are so many wonderful words in poetry, songs, literature about the mother. The mother is emotionally involved with the child and the child with the mother. Mother gives birth to them, feeds them, teaches them to walk and speak, brings them into adult life. It doesn't mean that a father isn't needed for a child, but it's another bond. Mother, father and children are a family. Family is something that protects, that gives strength. This family is responsible for raising their children, and they are the future and should be given special care. Experience teaches that civilization and the sustainability of nations depend primarily on the condition of their families. It's John Paul. II. The family's not doing well today. Ideologically, she's under attack. The number of broken marriages is enormous. Husband and wife are fighting each other, the victim is a child. The child's brave father takes revenge on the mother of his child, and he uses all sorts of violence against the child. The crisis of the family, marriage, motherly custody of the child in the majesty of the law affects the family courts. Judgments take away the safety of children by forcing them to unacceptable contact with a violent parent. The theory of alienation and forced care are hitting the baby. On 14 January, I organized a public debate, a conference: Children's rights in the family crisis. It was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family, experts - doctors, lawyers, psychologists, family therapists - as well as representatives of women, mothers protecting their children from violence. I invited my dads, too. I organized this conference because of many irregularities in the family courts during the divorce and separation period, which I know of, and with numerous interventions at the requests of mothers. The penalties that a parent pays for not giving a child to contact another parent are an untaxed tribute to the father's most violent pockets and reach tens of thousands of zlotys. It's a parent taking care of a child, and so is a child. The alarm is hit by statistics of emotional disorders in children getting younger and the number of suicides. This is what Mr Rutka was just talking about. The child is (the bell) in silent court, no one listens to him. The courts do not allow the opinion of private therapists of children and psychologists. The basis for decisions about the child's fate is the opinion of the OZSS, often objective and superficial or soulless. I dedicate my speech to worried mothers who ask for help. I would like to ask the High House to lean on children's rights in the family crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u498	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u499	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to speak from this speaker about the people that Minister Kowalczyk forgot. It's been 100 days since he's ruled, and he's ruled so effectively, ladies and gentlemen, that he's appointed as many as seven vice ministers. In the history of the Polish government there was not yet such a prime minister who would expand his administration so much. But he forgets those who work for him every day. I'm talking about the resort institutes. Today I'm just going to give you some examples. There's something, ladies and gentlemen, like the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection. In many cities, in many branches people are 25-30 years old. Do you know how much they make? It's the lowest national. Why are they working there? Because that's what they love because they help, because they like to help those people who are allowed to export their products on a daily basis. Unfortunately, the minister forgot about them. Recently, he remembered the veterinary problem with our food. The Minister said we have to finance it. Seven years this government has done nothing for veterinary purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! Another area to be requested is the Central Centre for Plant Variety Research. His seat is in the Great Slup, Minister, under Poznan. But there are also dozens of stations in Poland that evaluate varieties for Polish farmers, so that they know what to sow, what plants, what dates, under which agrotechnical conditions. And what do you find out, ladies and gentlemen? If we looked at the average age range, we'd say strong geriatrics. There's not gonna be anyone working there in a minute. But the Minister doesn't see the problem. And another thing that happens every day in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen! Plant breeding centres, various plant breeding stations. It would seem that people should work there, who are primarily educated in this direction. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? Law and Justice employs very competent people. The Lubian Farm Centre is one of the best breeding centres in Poland for dairy cattle. Do you know who runs it? She's a cosmetary. And who was the deputy? The man who ran the junkyard. I don't mind such people, just the ladies and gentlemen, what breeding will be after these people, and what idea of what biological progress means in such very important areas? I know you only want the faithful, but look what you're doing with what you're responsible for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u500	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Gazweda will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u501	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On Thursday, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala signed an agreement that ends the dispute around the activities of the Brunette Coal Mine. This is an undoubted success of Polish diplomacy. The signed agreement concludes the period of suspension of good relations between Poland and the Czech Republic, which is particularly important in the current international situation, marked by the aggressive actions of Russia. The Agreement entered into force on the date of its signature and will apply 5 years after the expiry of the coal concession, if so called. In the meantime, no new concession will be issued. In that case, the contract will expire 5 years after the expiry of any new mining licence. The agreement may also be unilaterally terminated by either party, but not earlier than 5 years after its entry into force. The complex of mines and power plants in Turów is one of the largest employers in the region and in the entire Lower Silesian voivodeship. The brown coal mine of Turów employs almost 2400 people, while the power plant of Turów - more than 1200 people. In addition, almost 1100 people are employed in subsidiaries. In addition, it is also the provision of heat supply and urgent water for local residents. The conclusion of an agreement, in addition to ensuring the security of employment for the employees of the Turin complex and ensuring the supply of heat to the inhabitants of the city and the municipality of Bogatynia, is also the energy security of the national electricity system. The complex in Turów is responsible for about 7% electricity production in Poland. It is a stable supply of electricity to over 3 million households, but also hospitals or schools. Thanks to the avoidance of stopping the activity of the complex in Turów, we have maintained the energy stability of both Poland and the whole European Community. By signing the agreement, the mine and the Turów power plant will be able to continue. The government thus protected the key element of energy security of Poland. The agreement first of all secures the continued operation of the Turów mines and power plants, which are of fundamental importance for the whole region and Poland. This success shows that the Government of Law and Justice is able to neutralize tensions by ensuring the Polish state's right. Negotiations have been long, difficult and require many sacrifices on both sides, but we must remember why it was impossible to sign the agreement earlier. We all know that the immediate cause was the ongoing election campaign in the Czech Republic, which caused the Czech administration to refuse to engage in an open and substantive dialogue aimed at a fair compromise. Instead, we were faced with an unjustified escalation of demands. The final proof of this thesis is just Thursday's agreement (the bell) signed less than a month after Petra Fali's government received a vote of confidence. I congratulate Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Annie Moscow and all members of the negotiating team on effective negotiations concluded by signing an agreement that protects the interests of our country. Thank you for the fact that the Polish government did not give in to pressure from European officials and opposition politicians who demanded that the work of mines and power plants be stopped, which would mean that workers would be fired and that the energy security of the country would be threatened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u502	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Buj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 April 2001, the Housing Cooperatives Act of 15 December 2000 entered into force, which introduced into the legal order the concept of an expektive, a separate ownership of the premises in accordance with Article. 19 of this bill. On conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, a claim is made for the establishment of separate ownership of the premises, hereinafter referred to as the expatriate of a separate ownership of the premises. Exhibitions of the separate ownership of the premises are negotiable with the building contribution or its input. He goes to heirs and is executed. The disposal of its separate ownership also includes the construction contribution or part of it and shall take effect upon submission of a Member State's declaration by the purchaser or purchasers. The contract for the disposal of a separate ownership of the premises should be concluded in the form of a notarial act. As can be seen from the above provision, exhibitions are negotiable, i.e. may be the subject of disposal for payment or free of charge and the purchase price shall reflect the value of that legal expectation, the related investment risk and the valuation of the building contribution obligation. However, this has led to a kind of pathology, because people with considerable money conclude a number of construction contracts, which soon leads to a transferable excreta in relation to each of them. Then, using the high demand for apartments, they become the subject of sale for a much higher price than the expenditure incurred. In this way, less wealthy people have limited opportunities to obtain housing in cooperatives, and people who for various reasons urgently need to acquire housing for their own use are doomed to have to purchase an exhibition of the right to housing from a kind of intermediary who in such a case offers it for sale on the market at a price much higher than the value paid up until the disposal of the building contribution. In the context of the above, I declare that the turnover of an exhibition of a separate property takes place without the participation of a cooperative, and the consent of a cooperative or other investor is not part of the necessary legal action, resulting in the deprivation of a housing cooperative of any influence on the verification of a counterparty who becomes a party to the building contract (the bell), in particular as regards its solvency in the context of the obligation to pay the remaining part of the contribution. This requires a deeper analysis of legislation that would prevent people from being treated unequally, bearing in mind their wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u504	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sterczewski will make his last statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u505	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We've been involved in the war in Afghanistan for many years. The current situation in this part of the world is a consequence and our actions. I am very pleased with the resolution adopted today on solidarity with Afghan citizens, but every day we have the opportunity to do more on this. Many of the people still living on the Polish-Belarusian border come from Afghanistan. Some of them helped our soldiers, and now they need help. The PiS government has led to a situation where people fleeing the Taliban regime in our country instead of safe refuge face persecution. In August, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs evacuated many Afghans and Afghans who fled, among others. from Kabul. I worked personally with ministers Simon Szynkowski at the time, a.k.a. Sęk and Marcin Przydacz, whom I thank once again from this place very warmly. Together, we have helped many families, but one life is different from another. Why some Afghans have helped this country escape, and others who are on our border will be put to death and torture in centers such as Hungary. At the beginning of the year, two Afghan boys died at the Children's Health Center as a result of poisoning, who were so hungry that they ate poisonous mushrooms. We must not look away from this. We must do absolutely everything we can to end this hell. Fall back from the disgraceful construction of the wall while the Bialowieza Forest can still be saved. You need this wall. Only as a prop of the theatre of hatred and propaganda. Just because you hide a dying man and separate him with a wall doesn't mean you don't take moral responsibility for his death. Meanwhile, the situation in Ukraine is becoming increasingly difficult. Soon we can deal with the refugees from there, and with tens of thousands. Will you also welcome them with walls and rifles? Or are you gonna push them out too? Is that the best you can do? Or will you stop stalking NGOs, activists and activists, the people of Podlasie, and start working with them? Will the Minister of Home Affairs meet with the Savings Foundation, the Border Group and other organisations to work together to tackle the next humanitarian crisis that threatens us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us remember: democracy is about working together, that state institutions work together with civil society. The state should simply act in accordance with the law and protect every human life with all its power, without exception. It's a measure of the strength of our state and elementary humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-09-sejm-48-2.u506	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 48th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 49th session of the Sejm, convened on 23 and 24 February 2022, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 14]]
