ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 64 senators voted and so many are currently attending the meeting, but this number is changing, as we can see. Ladies and gentlemen, the Seniors' Convention has decided to extend the current Senate meeting on 11 March and 17 March this year. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and considering it as a point of the 14th agenda; amendment of the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest and consider it as item 15 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would like to inform you that after considering point 14 on the draft resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, a vote will take place on this matter. The votes on the points that were considered yesterday and the laws that the Senate will consider today will be held tomorrow at 12.30 a.m. Following the preparation by the joint senate committees of the report on the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that country, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on the examination of that law. 16 March There will be committee meetings, and on 17 March there will be a continuation of the meeting to consider the Homeland Defense Act, which is to be voted on Saturday evening in the Sejm. That's the plan for the next few days. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 662. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. Allow me to speak as a representative of the applicants. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u2	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u3	High Izbo, I allow myself to bring this project on the basis of art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. The project was signed by a group of senators of practically all options and as part of the agreement with the Sejm is being prepared for tomorrow's formal assembly of Members and Senators. This project is intended to appreciate the historical importance of the twenty-third anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The project was agreed with the senate clubs and the Sejm. It is one-sounding in the Sejm edition and in the Senate edition, except that in the case of the Sejm it is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and in the case of the Senate is the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Let me read this project pretty quickly. The Senate of the Republic of Poland appreciates the historical importance of the Act of Accession by the Republic of Poland to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and formally becoming a full member of the North Atlantic Alliance, together with the Czech Republic and the Republic of Hungary on 12 March 1999, commemorates this significant event on the eve of the 23rd anniversary of the decision. Poland, being painfully experienced by the tragic history of the 20th century, struggled with two criminal totalitarians: Nazi and Communist, took in political consensus an effort to permanent anchor in structures of the Western world based on the principles of democracy and self-determination of nations. This is expressed in the presence of the Republic of Poland in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, whose membership is considered a priority of Polish foreign policy. Appreciating the commitment and work of all those who have contributed to the successful achievement of this goal and the fulfilment of the dream of the Polish society of membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays their respects. The Senate of the Republic of Poland supports the maintenance of the policy of the open doors of the North Atlantic Alliance, which contributed to the historic success of the Pact, expanding the sphere of freedom and security throughout Europe. We defend the right of every sovereign state to decide its future and to choose alliances, rejecting any attempt to create an impact zone in Europe. Security and peace guarantees provided by NATO, including in particular Article. The 5th North Atlantic Treaty, which provides for collective defence, including the use of armed forces, in order to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area, is the cornerstone of global governance and the protection of democratic values. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, stressing the importance and importance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in order to ensure global security, cannot pass indifferently to the current events related to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation to the sovereign Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people. The Russian criminal regime, breaking all legal standards and international obligations, has attacked Ukraine and has caused an unprecedented political, economic and, above all, humanitarian crisis since World War II. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, wishing to celebrate the 23rd anniversary of Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, calls on the governments and parliaments of NATO Member States and associated countries to continue their solidarity efforts to ensure global security and to decisively combat Russian aggression and violations of fundamental principles of international law, including humanitarian law. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls for the consistent strengthening of transatlantic ties and the continuation of solidarity in the fight against Russian aggression and the provision of comprehensive support to Ukraine, which can effectively contribute to the completion of armed activities. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. So much for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u5	I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. But as usual, for the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed put his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Could you look at Marshal Karczewski, or did he press the button? Well, nothing. Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the occasion of the 23rd anniversary of Poland's membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. [[Applause]] We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 641, and the report of the Commission In print No 641 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 24 February 2022 amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services; Senate printing No 641, seymous printing No 2014. On 25 February 2022, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the said committees. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 8 March 2022, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution: the Senate shall, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest, adopt this law without amendment. That's the draft resolution. The Act on the revision of the Public Service Bus Development Fund Act, discussed today, amends the Act on the Development Fund for Bus Transport, which entered into force in 2019. To date, solutions have put in place a mechanism to finance the implementation of the tasks of the organisers themselves in the field of bus transport, allowing the creation of a coherent, organised public transport network. The annual revenue of the fund is estimated at PLN 800 million. According to current data, in the recruitment for 2022, 4 000 901 communication lines were covered by the fund with the amount of aid requested of PLN 543 million. However, it turned out that due to the growing interest in transport in 4 voivodships, the limits granted to these voivodships for the current year were exceeded. The current Episcopal Regulations provide for a payment of PLN 3 per tonne-kilometre of transport until 31 December 2022, and the Act provides for an extension of that period until 31 December 2023, which gives the organiser a guarantee of financing the transport for a period of one year. In addition, a transfer of funds from the various voivodships to those voivodships where the limit of funds has proved insufficient is envisaged. The new rules make it more flexible for the fund manager to dispose of the funds and abolish the mandatory deadline of 31 August for the transfer of funds between voivodships. Following the entry into force of the contested law, the amount of unallocated funds of the Fund at the request of the voivodships may be transferred to them for payment of those applications which are outside the limit. This will increase the number of bus journeys financed by the Fund. That's pretty much what this bill looks like. There was no big discussion at the committee meeting. It was only noted that, while last November, when we were talking here in the plenary room about the amount of co-financing for a car-kilometre of 3 PLN, it was probably sufficient co-financing for a car-kilometre, but today, in view of so drastically rising fuel prices, it may not necessarily be sufficient. Besides, there are already such signals, especially from old men in Poland, there are signals that the interest decreased. Minister Weber, present at the committee meeting, stated that this would be examined in order to be able to react sufficiently early if necessary. Mr Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I kindly ask you to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Weber. And I have a question: does the government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I thank the Marshal and the High House for the fact that this item is on the agenda, is discussed in the plenary room and will, I believe, be put to the vote at this meeting. Thank you for understanding the situation, because in fact local government officials, organizers of collective transport, those who form public utility lines, in 4 voivodships are waiting for new measures that we want to give them, and this bill will give them the opportunity to do so. I think that the Senate's decision is also linked to the fact that, the day before yesterday, the Joint Committee, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government, in agreement and unanimously supported this government submission, for which I thank you very warmly. The amendment concerns a number of issues. One point is that the Minister of Infrastructure, who is the manager of the Fund, can transfer the funds in advance and in principle move them from the voivodships in which they are to those voivodships where the limit has been exhausted. And the limit was exhausted in Pomorskie, Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie and Silesian voivodships. There are local authorities who would like to organise a public utility line and receive funding from the Bus Development Fund. We want this amendment to enable them to do so in the first half of this year as soon as these regulations enter into force. It is possible on the basis of the current rules, but this would not happen until the second half of the year. So that these few months for local governments, especially for powiats, this is an important time and it would be good if these funds were to reach them as soon as possible and after the vote of this law and, of course, the signature of the President, and then the publication of such a situation will take place. The second point concerns the maintenance of maximum funding, 3 PLN to car km in 2023. This action we are doing now because we want the co-financing for 2023 to be organised by the voivods in the early autumn and decided in the late autumn. In a situation where in some voivodships resources will be lacking, this year we will send these resources to these voivodships so that from 1 January they simply were and there was no such problem, such a situation which is this year. And the situation, and this is what the rapporteur said, is related to the fact that more and more local government units want to organise collective transport with government support. At the moment, 4,000 900 bus lines in Poland are co-financed by the bus fund. If there are more local authorities who have already created or have created new bus lines, I am convinced that in 2022 we will cross the border of 5 000 public utility lines, which will be supported by the Government's Bus Development Fund. So it's important support. To a large extent, these communication lines are created in towns far from large centres, i.e. they are created for villagers and smaller towns in order to meet the need for collective communication in such areas. And we all know that there are people who do not have access to individual communication means, there are people who are lonely, older, ill, but there are also young people who have to get to school, among others. above ground, and that's what buses do. And if the government wants to organize such connections, it must have central, state support. I'm glad it's the support that was created in 2019 so cool and we're developing well. And I would like to reiterate the declaration that in the event that there is no funding, i.e. if this pool of 800 million zlotys is exhausted, we will increase this pool as much as we have to. Collective transport is an important part of social activity, an important part of economic activity as well, because it is not only the transport of young people to schools or people, say older people to health centres, but it is also the transport of workers to workplaces, so we will not spare either the strength or the means to develop collective communication in Poland. I am very happy that there are local governments who want to benefit from this funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative related, of course, to this item on the agenda. Senator Lamczyk, I see, has volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we are happy with this programme, but that is not all, because the indicator of communication exclusion is still very high. However, in connection with the pandemic, he did not fall, on the contrary. He's growing. And that's one thing. Second thing. Small entrepreneurs are being pushed out of the market, such family entrepreneurs who had buses and rode on these lines from the very beginning. They're being pushed out by big corporations right now. I've had a meeting with these kind of family companies lately. Not in Pomerania, but in the neighbouring voivodship. There are no control mechanisms here, especially in the voivodships. In the marshals it works quite well, but there are no control mechanisms in the voivodships, which is why I would ask you to pay attention to it. If the Minister is interested, I have plenty of materials I can hand over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u11	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! On the basis of the bill... I'm not even talking about that bus fund bill. On the basis of the Public Collective Transport Act, which has been adopted and in force since 2010, local government is the organizer of collective transport. So it is the local government that chooses the operator, chooses the transport company that carries out this service. Of course, this choice must be made in accordance with the law, either on the basis of a tender, or on the basis of this shorter path, but also in accordance with the law. Speaking of the shorter path, I mean the choice that results from, for example, market discernment, when satisfying some needs. and the transport function is such a basic need It may be disturbed. And as far as I know, the local authorities are using this fast track, but they are doing it to make the transport work, so that the communication availability is as high as possible. It is right that the senator noted that the pandemic, which necessarily reduced the mobility of Poles, caused major problems for transport companies in Poland. Yeah, we saw it. I think if it weren't for the fund and this state support, these bus lines would be even less. May I remind you that this year, the funding will be covered by 4,000 900 lines, and with this change there will be even more. I am convinced that if it had not been for these measures, a dozen of these lines would have been destroyed. Self-governments would not be able to keep bus transport at this level from their own resources. So that in the time of the pandemic the fund was successful, it was something that kept communication accessibility in many places, access to bus transport. And that's worth pointing out, too. As far as the legal aspects of the choice of the carrier are concerned, as I say, it is up to the organizer, the local government. The self-government may choose the carrier by means of a tendering procedure, but may also In a situation of urgency, when satisfying basic needs is at risk Do it with your own free hand. Here the local government has full autonomy and this autonomy, of course on the basis of the law, it uses.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u13	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. And then... [[I do, Mr. Marshal.]] And you're Senator Janusz Bladder. Good. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, which is tomorrow. He's still gonna be evaluated whether we start at 12:30 or 1:00. It depends on the speed of the joint committees. We're out of order right now. And then there's the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health on the examination of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory will be held today at 15.00 in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u15	Thank you very much. On completion of the committee's work, the plenary session will continue between 5.30 and 6 p.m. The meetings will be devoted to the point to be dealt with by the joint committees in a moment. Dismissed until 5:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 30 to 17 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u16	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, as the joint committees have prepared a report on the bill, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. and consider it as item 16 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the law on assistance for citizens of Ukraine in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country. The text of the act is contained in print No 653, and the report of the committee In print No 653 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Health, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator... [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're back in session. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Health, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very sorry I'm late, but this is an extraordinary way of working on the bill, an extraordinary way of working on the notified ones, discussed with the legislators of the amendments, and also an extraordinarily fast work. Therefore, from the long corridor from the legislators here, to us I made a slight delay, for which I apologize again. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We, Senator, accept your apology and at the same time ask you to accept your apologies for those colleagues who speak out loud, disturbing your speech.]] Thank you. The bill entered the Sejm on 8 March 2022. Since today is the tenth day of the same month, it is evident that the first, second and third reading took place in the Seym within 2 days. Today we over actually still warm print Because such a senate print no.653 arrived at the committee meeting, we were just working, at the joint committee meeting, which you mentioned to the marshal. These are very necessary solutions that respond to many needs and many challenges of this unique situation, in which Ukraine and its citizens are in particular, and immediately afterwards Poland, Ukraine's closest neighbour or Ukraine's closest neighbour, as well as the border of the European Union. We all know how hard it is... What can we say about war, ladies and gentlemen? Every day we see what happens in Ukraine. And while the pictures are on TV, the war and her victims are real. What people throw out of their homes, often with one bag, if not a commercial, personal things that they managed to save, what makes them stand for hours, waiting for them to cross the border, what happens to them on the border... And here I'm going to thank, on behalf of, I think, all of us, those people who are on the front line. These are our border guards who perform miracles to quickly and efficiently dismiss people fleeing the war. Next thing you know, these people meet a lot of volunteers who really don't remember if they have any political ideas or... They're just out there helping. I also want to thank the multitudes of people who bring gifts, send gifts, make them up, thank the crowds of self-governments who respond to each call, often being a liaison between Ukraine, Poland and other countries of Western Europe, finally, thanking the government that they see many things. In some things, we do. "Oh, surprisingly, an agreement in which I hope we will remain in the debate on this law. The committee's debate was not the hardest, but also the most polite. We all believe that what doctors, pharmacists, jurors, and the conclusions that have come to us from local governments should be taken into account. They're still working on them right now... most of them have been prepared by your legislators, for whom I thank you very much for their great work and commitment to this matter. Many speakers spoke. I'm going to group up the problem that we're dealing with in these three areas. The first issue is a whole set, as both the Minister and the chairman of the committee of local government Zygmunt Frankiewicz, developed in a compatible choir, when we leaned on further amendments... I think that Senator Frankiewicz in his speech will also present these local government proposals, in part agreed with the government. That's what's bothering the local government. The introduction of certain solutions will certainly make their lives easier and will certainly be contrary to excessive bureaucracy, and will often clarify the inaccurate provisions of the Act, in order to facilitate the work of local governments and the lives of Ukrainian citizens in our homeland. These amendments on local government or in this group of local government amendments take into account the issue of whether social services, social services of local authorities They will manage by implementing these provisions proposed in the Act, as well as relying mainly on the Social Assistance Act. We believe that most of these cases will be resolved by local governments. This is a matter of benefits, it's also a matter of support for schools, access to the first contact doctor, the place where it came to live for a family or for a single person. She will also go to the municipal authority to apply for a PESEL number, which will facilitate further action, also taking up work. Here, too, the law introduces many solutions, and actually opens up the labour market for Ukrainian citizens in their entirety, without creating any barriers, any obstacles. All these cases today were considered sufficient in legislation This was the result of the debate. However, in the senators' opinions, there was concern about whether all these solutions would suffice in view of the prospect of further influx of refugees. Are we sure we're gonna be okay? Today we hear about 0.5 million children, 2 million refugees. We know we're not running out of line at the border, and we're not running out of war, so we need to be prepared to help not for a week, not for a month, we need to help longer. And for patience to local governments, to citizens, I think we appeal to everyone together. In any case, the votes that followed at this committee meeting did not indicate that we were thinking more optimisticly on this issue. It won't be that good. But we're gonna have to deal with this, and I think if that's what it takes. That was also the government's declaration. We're going to change the rules. So this first contact is the border, the office and the commune where the refugee goes. The trouble and difference of opinion is where a refugee crosses the border. Because if he crosses it in the territory... that is, if he gets to Poland directly from Ukraine, then all the benefits of this law will include him. If he crossed the border and went to Poland not directly from Ukraine, for example. through Moldova, through Slovakia, it is already completely different, less beneficial for him, and I think of the Ukrainian citizen, legal solutions or facilitations concern him. Then he has the status not of a refugee, which we cover the free labour market, but of someone we allow temporarily to live in the territory of the Republic of Poland. And here's the difference of opinion, which is why my club will certainly make adjustments on this issue. The second pool of problems concerned health protection, health protection also in the sense that we are sure that in the right sanitary and epidemiological way we are doing our duty through the appropriate services. Minister Kraska says so. Doubts were raised by parliamentarians. I think that in this case, knowing the state of vaccination and to what extent, percent, Ukrainian citizens are vaccinated, or actually not vaccinated, knowing that they are optional And in Poland they are mandatory. The vaccination of children against such diseases which no longer exist in Poland thanks to vaccinations, but which can return to us if we do not inoculate the children... We have the assurance of the ministers, and at least... And there are records in this bill that according to the government provide the same access to all medical, well, I don't want to say "privileged," but to all this... to all the obligations that result from the protection of the health of Polish citizens. All these obligations will also apply to Ukrainian citizens. A separate issue was cases related to courts, mainly because most women are going to Poland at the moment, and in fact the largest number are children, and not all of them are coming with their legal guardians. In Poland there are already, as we know, about 3,000 children, who do not have legal guardians, do not have their parents. The world doesn't fall apart if they're coming with a relative with an aunt, an uncle, a grandmother, a grandfather. But if they're coming with a neighbor, that's a problem under our law. The government appreciates this problem, but it's trying to solve it in a way, in our opinion. and amendments will be tabled in this respect. Not enough. A temporary guardian institution has been established, and rightly so, but this temporary guardian must be established by the court. Ladies and gentlemen, 3,000 children and 300 judges of family courts are some kind of case. Because we do not consider children who come under the care of one or two carers, who are full orphans and come from Ukraine to Poland as institutional care. Polish standards say: 1 guardian per 14 children. One guardian from Ukraine is not able to provide care for hundreds of children. Who will take over on behalf of these children all the benefits they deserve in Poland, and 500+, and 300+, and all the family benefits, caring? This will be the role of the temporary guardian we need to watch over. In this respect, we believe that not all the legal solutions proposed in this submission are sufficient. We will make an amendment on this. The debate was attended by Members Klich, Libicki, Kwiatkowski, Kochan, Zdrojewski, Chybicka, Dunin... I apologize for giving you names without names. Next: Mr Frankiewicz... [[Senator...]] Excuse me! Of course, senators. I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Little-Libera's name already, I guess, mentioned... Minister Szmidt, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Piontkowski. Many cases were solved without unnecessary pressure. I hope that the proposed bill without amendments is not a proposal for which... i.e. Someone has the impression that the bill will come out of our House without amendment. He's not coming out. But it was adopted so that, as I say, the second reading could all be amended accordingly. My personal reflection at the end of this speech is as follows, ladies and gentlemen. We prove ourselves as a society in good neighbourly relations and in the sense that even the worst peace is better than the best war. We wish peace to those who are sheltered today. I ask all of our services, all of our citizens, to be patient, because this enthusiasm that we showed at the beginning at the reception and we have so far... Don't let him weaken, let him continue. Let no Ukrainian citizen, no Ukrainian, no child intrudes in Poland. They are in their Europe where they have the right to peace, they have the right to live in their own safe country. I am convinced that common good work, within the meaning of these ideas, will benefit not only Ukraine and the Ukrainians, but also us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, we are facing the biggest migratory crisis. This is a very important law that will decide many issues for many, many years, about the future. My question is: have government representatives determined the financial consequences of this law because the number of persons who will be covered by these financial benefits is unknown? Because if there is no limit to that, it means that the bill is, in short, uncounted and it is not known what financial consequences it will bear. And the second question is, was there any information from government representatives about stepping up action within the European Union, about any actions that would jointly divide this migration crisis into other Member States of the European Union? Because in a moment it will turn out that Poland can be left alone with this huge challenge. [[Timer signal]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u20	Yes. The financial impact was calculated by the government at PLN 7.6 billion. As a result, a special support fund for Ukraine, supported as usual by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, is set up. This fund may consist of contributions from the State budget but also contributions from other donors. The trouble is, not everyone thinks And that came from the committee's work. I want this fund to be the best way to solve the problem. We think he's gonna go beyond the state budget again, like a lot of funds. If I remember correctly, 36 and that this is not transparent when it comes to reporting, as we spend common budget money. But we've accepted this solution. On the issue of transparency, I believe there will be amendments. 7.6 billion zlotys of this amount is planned according to the OSR. I understand that these are estimates. I understand, too. This was the result of the government's statements that the talks with Germany and France were primarily about relocation, although it did not sound elegant... If the citizens of Ukraine find that they want to go to Germany or France, or to any other country, the names of these two countries were mentioned during the committee's deliberations: France and Germany, of course, appropriate agreements or appropriate relocations of willing Ukrainian citizens will take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm short. I'm gonna ask you a question about the subject that the senator was talking about at first. Namely, it is mainly about Ukrainians with children arriving not through the Polish-Ukrainian border, but through Slovakia, Moldova and other countries. This is the main reason why we cannot regulate this matter on our own. Don't our laws allow that? Aren't these people treated as refugees? Why, if they can prove it somehow?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u24	Thank you very much. According to the Minister's explanations, this is an attempt to look very closely at every person who goes to Poland in this warfight. At the Polish-Ukrainian border there are our bordermen, who, by applying the relevant regulations, regulations, procedures, watch over and in some sense are responsible for not letting people who should not cross this border. The Minister explained that we do not have such an accurate and insightful view when these people cross the Polish border and were staying in Moldova or Slovakia for some time. These are probably questions for the Minister. I'd rather have the Minister speak on this. I am merely telling you what arguments the Minister used. Yes, I believe that crossing these borders directly... This differentiates the refugees we are adopting here, and this should not be the case, which is also highlighted by human rights organisations. Well, if we don't have the right to court, then why should we have the right... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, we know a lot of examples. I would call it the most delicate way to spend money on special funds. I'd like to ask if this bill ensures monitoring of this. How does it ensure the monitoring of the spending of those funds which are primarily intended for aid? The point is to avoid abuse or even embezzlement, because unfortunately such cases were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u27	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u28	In my opinion, Senator, what the law provides is not enough to guarantee transparency, transparency in the use of public finances. That's why my club's gonna make an amendment to this case. Besides, we do not want to give up the application of the law in the course of war or epidemic. We believe that there is no excuse for the state in which we are today. That's no reason to say no to the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, was there also a discussion at the committee meeting on the procedure for issuing the PESEL number? This is a procedure which requires the personal presence of the person applying for such a number at the municipal office and the submission of the relevant documents and photographs. Will the Polish municipal authorities be able to... I'm assuming that's going to be for hundreds of thousands of people. Isn't that gonna lead to... Was there a discussion about this? Shouldn't there be some other way to implement the PESEL system? And this is necessary to get the opportunities that PESEL is giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u32	That was the point, Mr. Senator. Yes, it raises doubts and concerns. We do not know if all the municipal authorities will be able to deal with such a number of documents, with the number of people who will come to submit these documents. It was emphasized that most refugees think about their further life in large and not small centres, that more such people are in Warsaw, Poznań, Wrocław, Szczecin or Gdańsk than in smaller centres. But from the point of view of my Western Pomerania, that's not necessarily the case. Today in Goleniów the street can be heard more Ukrainian than Polish. Dealing with this problem will also be a huge test for local governments. You can't burden them, not predicting it. This will probably be one of the amendments from the local government block, no financial gratification. After 24 hours of work, no official is able to carry out his duties without interruption, so you will probably have to hire more people to meet these procedures. Nevertheless, Mr. Senator, it would be strange if we were quite careless when we broadcast the PESEL number. PESEL is a kind of identity card for a citizen of a country other than Poland who lives in our territory, and therefore identification of this person is also important for us and for our security. Perhaps for a time when they travel from Ukraine to Poland, these procedures should be simpler, but at the moment when the commune, the neighbour, the family will provide a roof over their heads, in short, and in a moment's time, this identification of people must be solid. As a result, local authorities will certainly need to be strengthened when it comes to staffing and thus pay for additional jobs. Yes, it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u34	Madam President, we are dealing with And there was a discussion at the committee's meeting about it. With the problem of the deployment of refugees. There are large cities that are on the verge of accepting more people fleeing Russian aggression, and there are such areas, e.g. in north-eastern Poland, where there are still places and where there are excellent conditions. I know this was the subject of a committee meeting. If the senator could tell us if there's any idea what the solution to this problem is... [[We already know today... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u35	Yes, yes, of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u36	We already know today that often large cities, however attractive they seem at first, are not quite attractive. Because living conditions in large halls, where there are just field beds or... Well, a common farmhouse for 10, 50 or 70 people can be replaced by a single apartment, where the intimacy and normality of life are absolutely different than in this big city. And according to the information we have from the Minister, families often choose to change their place of residence or move to smaller centres, but with clearly better conditions. But I don't think it's gonna be an easy process. That's my conviction. People think it's easier to get a job in big cities, and it's better paid than in smaller centres. But given the fact that a lot of women... Because mostly they come here. After all, we must remember that the Ukrainian side does not release men from the eighteenth to the fifty-nineth or even sixty years of age. So these conditions, as well as the chance to go to school, which is smaller, is not a pier... It's easier to live there because the neighbors know each other and support each other more. And it'll all be more attractive than staying in a big city. But I think about this case today, two weeks after the start of the war, and at the same time, the mess that we have... That's the thing we should be thinking about in the second step. The first step is to provide shelter, provide the means needed to survive, and medical care, which is very important. Oh! What surprised me during the discussion was the speech of Minister Kraśka, who said... [[Voice from the room: Kraski.]] Kraski, of course. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. ...that there is no need to facilitate the pursuit of the profession of nurse and doctor and the use of medical professions, which are certainly also carried out by those who come to us, because the last amendment, which facilitates access to the market for these professions, is enough. And there's no need for that today. I think that we will take this step because it is difficult to pass indifferently to the human and intellectual potential of those people who came to us from Ukraine and who, for their diaspora, so numerous, can be a huge help and support. Just hire them, and in the second step It is very fast to teach Polish to be a link between diaspora and the rest of our country's population.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I don't know if I've read the intentions correctly, the senator's words. You indicated that you did not understand the intention of the government that this law only applies to those who crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border, not those who crossed other borders. [[Yes.]] And there was something else about the courts, but I understand that it's... [[Family courts, Minister.]] I see. [[This was the case with foster care.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. Maybe we'll figure it out later. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen, of all the refugees from Ukraine, 2/3 cross the Polish-Ukrainian border and 1/3 the border with Slovakia... maybe in another order: Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and, of course, Moldova. Do you have any idea whether similar solutions for support for Ukrainian refugees are in these countries, including members of the European Union, such as Hungary, such as Slovakia, such as Romania? Are they so eager to help the Ukrainian side? Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u39	Thank you, Senator. Quiet, please, and I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u40	There was no mention of this in committee proceedings, and I cannot answer that question to the senator. My knowledge of this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome... [[I think Hungarians could also help transport weapons to Ukraine.]] [[I'm talking about Slovakia, Romania.]] Please keep your dialogues in regular form. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have three questions. They concern children and young people who reach Poland. My first question, I start with the youngest children. Self-governments are ready to create day care for these children, but there's a complete lack of government interest here. I'd like to know if you've talked about it. My second question concerns older children, children who are accepted by local governments in schools. In fact, teachers, school heads do not have any information about the programming framework that was implemented in Ukraine. Did you discuss gathering such information and helping Polish teachers in conducting classes for these children? You could even group them into the right classes depending on how big their knowledge is and how advanced it is. My third question concerns students. Many Ukrainian students left Poland to defend their country. Many of them volunteered, joined the territorial army, but they have opportunities to complete their studies, e.g. We already have such examples in our exams. Online. Did you talk about it? Is it possible to help these students complete their studies in Poland this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u43	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u44	Senator Zdrojewski raised during the debate the problem of students who could continue their studies during the semester even against the existing statutes of our universities. The solutions proposed here by the government face this challenge. Yes, rectors at such moments can accept a Ukrainian student during the semester, even ignoring the provisions of their own university statutes. As for the younger children, the statutory proposals relaxed the criteria, which are quite high, concerning the number of children in groups, in children's clubs, in kindergartens, in nursery schools. They were relaxed in relation to children from Ukraine. This is not done because it is going to return permanently to not the best forms of care, just because today is definitely the time. What's there to talk about? The law gives such opportunities In children's clubs, there may be more children from Ukraine who will be cared for by fewer people, from whom we will not require knowledge of Polish, but the children from Ukraine will have someone who will speak to them in their native language. As for the programming content, Senator, I think it might sound strange to me that it's a little early to talk about it today. Consider that a cruel war lasts two weeks. More than 2 million Ukrainian citizens came to Poland. Germany adopted 2.1 million refugees in 2014 and 2015 but within 2 years. Germany, twice the size of us, and I don't know how many times, but certainly more wealthy. So what Poles are doing for Ukraine today deserves the highest respect. And maybe not all good legal solutions are proposed in this law, but there are certainly solutions that go in the right direction. Well, we're not gonna agree to this impunity, which is obvious. We are concerned about the issue of additional rights restricting citizens' rights, there is talk of an excessive number of towers that can be used for wiretapping. The most important word, in my opinion, is the word "trust." If we have dealt with rulers who break the constitution and do not have any scruples about it if we are dealing with the Constitutional Tribunal, which considers that human rights are incompatible with the Polish Constitution, then I fear that the same Court will in a moment declare that the Polish Constitution is incompatible with the Polish Constitution. This lack of trust is felt in the debate. But it turns out that the goal behind these legal solutions is so important that we can communicate in these key issues. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I would like to ask if the joint committee was talking about the famous 40 zlotys that can be obtained if someone commits to taking them under their roof or to their housing stock or to their local refugees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u47	No, Mr. Senator, we haven't talked about this. [[They didn't talk, did they?]] No, I don't... [[The minister was talking about it.]] Excuse me, Minister... [[40 PLN...]] Excuse me, ma'am. You're telling me... Thank you very much, Senator, because it may have slipped my attention... But none of the senators raised this problem, described it as too low or too high.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u48	I have a question about that. Some experts point out that they are talking about 40 PLN, while in the content of the Act there is no standard contract, information, how it should be converted from the formal side, because it is public money. Was there any discussion in this regard, or was that what was being pointed out at the meeting of the Joint Committees? And then there's the second line. If the senator finds that this issue has not been raised, please don't answer the second question. But what I'm saying is... If refugees are guided under an old-age contract with an economic operator providing guesthouses, hotels, such an institution, is there any limit to the amount that is obtained for housing and meals of refugees? Are there any limits in this regard? If the senator wanted to comment on this... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u49	Mr. Senator, I told you about the legislative timetable for this bill. On March 8th, the project went to the Sejm, on March 10, we are in the Senate in the middle of a second reading. The problem raised in the government submission is extensive and I did not find any such detailed data in these proposals. There was no debate on this in committee proceedings. But is it my inattention and lack of ability to follow this law very closely... Because the problem is that in the second reading in the Sejm, 117 amendments were tabled to the draft law. Today at 2.30 p.m. we took out our warm, literally warm prints with the project. And during the talks, the legislator was looking for the right links, because even numbering was changed during our work in the Senate. So I don't know, Mr. Senator. I think it's a question more addressed to the government than to... Am I happy with this mode of work? No, I'm not, because I realize that we're about to make it work. And the President will seal it with his own signature. The law, which not all of us, including myself, are convinced is properly established. And I'm going to read this project really carefully today after this session so I can know everything. And to know what we should possibly improve in the first step so that the wrong law does not apply. I hope that there will be very little of such legislation. But the rush to make the law is a very bad advisor, very bad. We must realise that this mechanism is then established by us... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...by us established... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I would very much like to ask you not to disturb the senator.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I, Mr. Senator, am in Parliament a little bit, and I have a sense of responsibility for the law that I am in, whatever configuration, whether in the Senate or in the Sejm. It is not then said that the bill came out of the hands of the Platform or the PiS, the Greens or the PSL, but talk about the bill which was adopted and implemented by the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. And I feel like I'm being held accountable for that kind of law. That's why I think that knowing the case and knowing it... In November, the government already knew how this was going to go. This could have been the reason for a bill better than the one we're working on right now. There was a little bit more time for that. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no further questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much for the report. [[Applause]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome, Minister of God. Would the Minister like to speak? I see he wants to speak. Please state the government's position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is a great honor and honour to present a draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. For 2 weeks Poles have been involved in a process which is an absolutely unprecedented phenomenon. The aid comes from government institutions, local governments, NGOs, ordinary people. The entire Polish society and the Polish state today is the voice of our friends, our neighbours, our brothers from Ukraine, who have become an object of unprecedented aggression. All those who seek refuge from bombs, from the ongoing war and its consequences, receive this refuge in Poland. Poland is today Europe's conscience. He's a spokesperson in many fields. The diplomatic, humanitarian... He is a spokesperson for the Ukrainian case in Europe. Today, too, the Polish Parliament has a chance in a special and individual way, because it will be the decision of each of the senators, just as yesterday of each of the Members, to be involved in this process of assistance, because this law is a help for all of them, creating mechanisms for all those who seek refuge in Poland and receive this refuge. We talked about this at today's meeting of the Joint Committees, and the Senator rapporteur spoke about it. During the migration crisis, the previous largest migration crisis in Europe, in 2014 and 2015 the countries of southern Europe and Germany accepted as many refugees, for nearly 2 years, how many Poland for 2 weeks. They received huge resources for this, and no one in Poland has been waiting for funds, only for the first hours, since the first moments, organizing aid. [[Applause]] I think it is also a reason for us to be very proud, that this help spontaneously and in a manner organized at all levels, which I will say once again, has been given to all those who seek refuge for the first hours. At the first conference organized by Minister Mariusz Kaminski, at the first conference at the Ministry of Interior and Administration, immediately after the beginning of aggression, we informed that, first of all, we must welcome all mothers and children, women whose husbands bravely defend the territorial integrity of their country, put up a courageous and brave resistance to the brutal Russian aggression that we, as a country and as a society, must take care of their mothers, their children, their wives. And it's been going on for two weeks. The reception of refugees, the provision of shelter is only a solution to the first of the huge problems that refugees face before the war. There'll be more. And this law, submitted by the government, is a bridge for that time after arriving in Poland. This is an expression of our solidarity with Ukraine, with its inhabitants and it is a consequence of the need to regulate the status of these people in Poland. The proposed law aims to create a special regulation which provides an ad hoc legal basis for legal residence in Poland of Ukrainian citizens who are seeking refuge with us. It is a special, but complementary, act which describes this wide area of migration and asylum, in particular in addition to the Act on foreigners and the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The bill submitted assumes that if a Ukrainian citizen legally arrived in Poland during the period from 24 February, from the moment of aggression, directly from the territory of Ukraine, from the area covered by the war activities and declared his intention to remain in the territory of Poland, his stay will be considered legal for a period of 18 months from that date. The arrival of these persons in the territory of Poland is registered by the commandant of the Border Guard Office during border control, and if This also occurred in the discussion at the committee's meeting. It has not been registered, the stay of these persons in the territory of Poland will be registered after the application has been submitted to the municipality authority for the assignment of the number PESEL. This assignment of the PESEL number is the key to most benefits, to many public services, which can be extended to people seeking refuge in Poland. The basic principles of this law are free access to the Polish labour market, providing assistance in accommodation, all day feeding and transport to those places of accommodation, which is coordinated, organised by voivodships, as well as the creation of a special fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for financing or financing tasks relating to the provision of this support. The Act also gives the right to benefit from family benefits, educational benefits, Family Care Capital, all those benefits received by Polish citizens. The supplement here is a one-time cash benefit of PLN 300 for people who start their stay in Poland, as if on the start, for the beginning. It is also the right to health care, free health care. The Act introduces the possibility for Ukrainian citizens to take up and pursue business activities on the same terms as Polish citizens. It also lays down specific rules for extending periods of legal residence, the possibility of obtaining a temporary residence permit once for a period of 3 years for a Ukrainian citizen whose stay in the territory is considered legal. The Act introduces specific regulations concerning universities, students, the broadly understood area of education and education, tax support, as well as the possibility of obtaining the benefit of each entity, in particular the natural person running the household, who will provide accommodation and catering to Ukrainian citizens. The Act regulates all these issues, which seem to be the most urgent for organizing safe, sustainable assistance to those who flee to Poland from the war. If your marshal will allow me... In view of the fact that this law regulates many different areas, only one of them, which I have tried to draw a little more broadly, both now and at the committee meeting, includes the jurisdiction of my department. But since this is a law, which is the work of several other ministries, it seems to me that if your marshal agreed to such short, synthetic speeches also by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... I think it would be advisable, even before the discussion. Of course, both myself and my colleagues from these departments will be at your disposal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Of course, Minister.]] It is our moral duty, to adopt this law, to adopt these solutions. I would also like to stress that this work on these solutions, not only at the stage of parliamentary work, which we experienced both yesterday in the Sejm and today at the committee meeting, is really in agreement and agreement. I think that many Poles, looking at it, feel such inner joy, that in a situation where the Polish society is united in helping, also the political class is united in ensuring security in these absolutely difficult times, a home for those who seek refuge with us. I think this is the fullest way we can get involved in the preparation of a bridge. It is the adoption of these arrangements provided for in this Act. In agreement and in agreement. Cooperation with local authorities, I would like to stress this. I'm also a self-government officer. It's going really well. I think that this joint effort of NGOs, local governments, government administration, voivodships, who do the titanic work, the services under our department... From the first hours after the aggression, all state services have worked. It's worth emphasising. Because four hours after the start of aggression, every refugee, regardless of his nationality, was given a flyer to the border from a Border Guard officer, informing him where the nearest reception point was, that in Poland he would gain shelter for free, that both accommodation and transport to this place were free of charge, this is proof that the Polish state was preparing for it. We have been preparing for different options for the development of the situation, and unfortunately one of the most difficult and worst is being implemented. But you're working. Citizens notice that. Since 88% Poles evaluates well, very well evaluates the way the state operates, that is the joint assessment Of course, the government, which coordinates it, but also local governments, NGOs. This is our common assessment. I am pleased that, at this difficult moment, very responsible, I have the honour to present to the High House these basic principles of the law, and I am pleased that the process of making them is going on just like this, not unlike this. We're at your disposal. I think it's our duty, it's our moral duty. A special task has been put before Poland, a particular challenge, I think we will meet it. If your marshal will allow me... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Of course, Minister.]] ...I would ask my colleagues from the ministries competent to supplement this statement in areas that directly concern the submission and their departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter...]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I would like to make an idea of how to lead... Wouldn't it be better if there were a series of questions to this minister after every minister's speech? So if it wasn't an entire conglomerate right away, then we'd come back with a question... That would be, I suspect, easier if we could ask the Minister... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I understand that the senator would like to ask a question to the Minister for what he has already said, and then...]] Yeah, to what he said. And then the next government representative and the next questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: If I may, Mrs. Marshal, offer something... I don't know, I'm sorry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u54	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u55	This may be by consuming this proposal... because, I think, you all know the project and the presentation, you know that there are areas... Questions may concern 4 areas: MSWiA, MEiN, health and family and work. So maybe it's a good idea to have these questions come to me first... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: Well, to the Minister, of course.]] ...then there would be a brief discussion of each of the ministers and questions to them. In fact, Mr. Senator, I'm sure we'd be very happy to get things straightened out and speed things up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u56	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for this motion. Mr. Senator Jackowski. I'm really psyched.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u57	Thank you very much, Marshal. Except I don't think that's how we're gonna figure this out. I'd have an offer to... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: But this is not a discussion, Mr. Senator, so far there are questions.]] No, no, in this discussion about how to process. Well, consummating what Senator Blackbay said... Wouldn't it be better, though? I give this to consider, that all the ministers should speak, that there would be questions, and then the ministers would share which questions they would answer. Because there may be questions... And so, after each series, we're gonna ask questions and then we're gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u58	Yeah, but we... This is not a matter for discussion right now. The point is to make this clear so that all of you are clear and ask the right ministers. So maybe now we'll actually ask the other ministers to give information about the rest of the bill, and then there'll be questions for each of you. And maybe by then you'll be answering to make it easier. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: This is also a good solution.]] Good. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Here you go, which one of the ministers is it now? Minister Piontkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to make it clear that the regulations on the education of foreigners in Poland have been in operation for many years. However, they were constructed in a completely different situation. Now, when we are dealing with an exodus, of course, these provisions need to be adapted to the current situation. Hence to the regulation on the education of foreign children and Poles returning from abroad... We had to adapt some of the rules to the situation of hundreds of thousands of children and young people from Ukraine who came to our country. But I will start with the part that concerns science and higher education. We would like students coming from Ukraine to have a chance to continue learning, which is why we have introduced regulations. He asked for them, among others. Mr. Senator Zdrojewski, facilitating the rectors' amendments to their statutes, internal law concerning, for example, recruitment, so that students can be admitted during the semester so that they do not have to lose a whole year. We also allow Poles who studied in Ukraine to go to Polish universities so that they can continue these studies. We also provide for additional funds to absorb students to Polish universities. We also allow scientists, lecturers from Ukrainian universities to take up work at Polish universities, in Polish research institutes. There are provisions that allow for this without unnecessary administrative procedure. As far as the rules on children and young people are concerned, we have introduced a number of regulations that facilitate the organisation of teaching for children from Ukraine, especially after discussions with local government units. These regulations facilitate this, among others. changes in the organisation of preparatory branches. These branches are already in force under the Foreign Children's Education Regulation. The rules provide that if a child does not speak Polish, he should first go to the preparatory department where he will have the chance to start learning Polish. In addition, there are additional classes with subjects that will allow for the elimination of programme differences between the Ukrainian system in this case and the Polish system. In these preparatory departments, in accordance with the regulations already in force, assistants or teachers' help should work, who will facilitate language contact between Polish teachers who will conduct these classes with Ukrainian students and students from Ukraine. Here, among others. we allow the help of the teacher to be provided by people from Ukraine. You do not need to have certificates of knowledge of Polish language, it is enough to communicate knowledge of Polish language to perform such a function. We do not foresee any special requirements for these people except that they can communicate Ukrainian children with Polish teachers. Of course, we also provide for additional resources for additional educational tasks here. They will come from an increase in the provision of education subsidies or from a fund to help refugees from Ukraine, which the Minister has already mentioned. Here's another piece. We provide for a simplified procedure for setting up other educational activities. So far, it's required a rather complicated multi-month procedure. Now we want it to be possible, if necessary, for local authorities to be able to go to other locations. In addition to schools that are already in operation To create these preparatory units. The curator in express mode, within just 7 days, will give an opinion on the consent to such a location. This will apply to children of both school and preschool age. We also allow local governments to organise free transport, because since it will be other locations and since these branches will be able to have inter-school or inter-government status, there will probably be a need to deliver children. We also provide for this additional funding from the state budget. We want as many teachers as possible to work with students, with hundreds of thousands of children and young people who will go to Polish schools. Hence, we endure barriers to the fact that the teacher working at the Polish school can have at most one and a half jobs, i.e. a part-time overtime. That's the barrier we're putting up with. We also allow teachers who are on compensatory benefits to go back to schools without losing compensation. Until now, the law forbade these teachers from working at school. We also clearly adjust the provision which we have already interpreted in such a way that there is no need to implement the programme basis in Polish schools in the preparatory departments, because we realise that it would be impossible in practice. We clarify this provision by saying that the content provided to children and young people in Ukraine is to be based on general education programmes in individual schools, but at the same time tailored to their psychophysical capabilities, which clearly indicates that teachers do not have to implement the entire curriculum. Some of the provisions are already in regulations to facilitate the organisation of preparatory branches and the adoption of children from Ukraine. This is, among others, the case. the extension of the preparatory branch from up to 15 to 25 pupils and, as suggested by local authorities, the possibility to increase the pre-school and classes of III by 2 or 3 children if they are children from Ukraine. If there are any further questions, we are, of course, open. I want to confirm what the Minister of God said about working on this bill in the Sejm, but especially here in the Senate, it is unique. I see a great understanding that we are in a special situation. We're also open to your ideas. Some of these ideas and ideas of other environments are reflected in the laws and regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Minister Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will talk about a few areas that are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. These are the most important topics that are included in the bill. Some have already been mentioned by the Minister in his first speech. I will start with a labour market issue because I believe that this is one of the most important changes that we are making. It is about the possibility for Ukrainian citizens to take up work without restrictions, who enter our country and are legally with us. There will be no need for work permits. It will only be necessary for an employer who hires such a person to inform the county labour office within 14 days that the person has been employed. This is because we have to open the labour market to the maximum, especially since the situation in the labour market, as far as the people of Ukraine are concerned, has changed. So far, we've had a situation of 70%. Ukrainian citizens who worked in Poland were men. Today, this situation has definitely changed. Many men go to fight for their homeland, and these places are slowing down, and women and children are coming. This is why we are looking for the right solutions to help hire these people. We are in constant contact with entrepreneurs, with the Entrepreneur's Council, we want jobs for women to be as much as possible. The procedure is simple. You don't need to have any work permits here or that short version of the statement. Those who work today have the possibility of working on the old rules extended until the end of the year. This is the first and very important condition when it comes to taking up work. Of course, it also involves... This is where I'm going to go to the other part about mothers and children. If we want to improve the situation of mothers with children, women who are going to work, we need to provide care for these children. That is why we have taken the steps that the rapporteur was talking about in relation to the creation of nursery and children's clubs. We also provide opportunities for women from Ukraine themselves to create clubs and places where they can be looked after by these children. It's another ease that will help us. The third group that's in our bill... This is a question of helping Ukrainian citizens who are coming in. There are two types of help. The first type of aid is one-off aid in the amount of PLN 300 for every citizen who enters our country, which is legally with us. This help is meant for... this kind of emergency aid, whether it's about food or some kind of fee. This will be the aid upon application submitted to the municipality's office. Of course, PESEL must have been given before, because we do not want this system to be abused. Here, together with the local government, we have agreed funds to handle this task of 2%. , in connection with the payment of one-off benefits. I think this is a good solution for all Ukrainian citizens. This is a simplified situation. While environmental intelligence is needed for our citizens, here it will be enough to make a statement from the Ukrainian citizens who are coming to us, which will be a much simpler form. The second part of this is social assistance, which can be used, for example. periodical allowances or e.g. A meal at school or at home. Here the same rules apply for everyone in Poland. So that this aid can also be used. We took care of both those who come and those who stay in Poland, especially the wives or mothers who remain in our country, whose husbands, sons returned to Ukraine. They are often left without means to live, and now they will be able to benefit from social assistance. I think it's a good way to help these families, too. The last thing I want to say is this is a matter of children, of foster families. We know that the situation is very difficult. We have over 500,000 children from Ukraine. But there are also children who come from Ukraine from children's homes, from orphanages. In our country, 16 000 children are covered by institutional care, in Ukraine 160 000, i.e. more than ten times more than in our country. Those groups that are coming to us now are mostly organized groups. And we're looking for a place for them to take care of them. There are also people in this group who do not have legal guardians, hence the temporary guardian whom we have established. And that's where the family court will make the decision. At the request of local authorities, we have extended the possibility of reporting people to perform this function, will be reported within 2 days 48 hours and the court will have 3 days to decide. We want it to work in such a way that there is no abuse, that children are being exported from our country or in any other way... without control. This is where we started the Hub in Stalowa Wola, for 1,000 kids. This place is a reception point, the place of such temporary stay of these children and from this place they are transported throughout the country. Today, in Stalowa Wola, there is a minister of Ukraine, associated with demographic policy, and a vice-president of the European Parliament, i.e. there is also an interest in this path, how to help these children. I think that through these actions we provide them with a sense of security. So much for the solutions that are in our department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Minister, our colleague, Senator Kraska, to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you for such a nice welcome, I do feel at home. Recently we met about the COVID-19 epidemic, meetings were quite frequent. This epidemic seemed to be over. Unfortunately, the warfight, which is beyond our eastern border, has also caused new challenges to emerge from Polish health care. New challenges due to the fact that over 1.5 million refugees went to Poland in a very short period of time, mainly women and children. Therefore, we, as the Ministry of Health, have prepared in this specialty, this law so important and necessary, and it is necessary very quickly, which is requested not only by Polish hospitals, Polish clinics, but also by local government officials... Because this bill solves a lot of problems that are happening right now. Because so many refugees from across the eastern border went to Poland... And these are mostly women and children. It is estimated that more than 500,000 people are children who are likely to require medical attention. Therefore, in this law we introduced for them free health care, the same as for Poles. We're talking about children, we're talking about adults. Any Ukrainian citizen who crossed the border of his country and the Polish border after 24 February will be covered by free health care. I stress once again: free and the same, same as the Poles have. It's not better, it's not worse. We do not differentiate Polish and Ukrainian nationalities here, this care is the same. That's why the demand... Sometimes we hear that some people demand payment for their services or that they issue invoices. This is not only unethical, but also unnecessary, because all benefits will be paid from 24 February, regardless of whether this assistance was provided to a family doctor, in a specialist clinic or in a hospital. It does not matter whether this benefit cost little or it was very costly. Unfortunately, there are many medical procedures that are very expensive. This care is very important at the moment, because we see that those who come to us, from a medical point of view, also due to the state of the epidemic... I would stress that the emergence of COVID-19 in Ukraine is only 35%. This will also give rise to certain perturbations as regards the health aspect. Of course, we came up against this and at these big points that are now gathering refugees from across the eastern border, we created vaccination points. There are also vaccines. We want to allow Ukrainian citizens to take advantage of this opportunity to receive such a vaccine. Also issuing prescriptions for medications that need to be taken E.g. for an antibiotic for a child who is ill or for medicines for adults who require continuation of treatment, which has been established in their home country, will take place on the same basis as in the case of Poles. So it's gonna be a refund. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another challenge ahead of us. As I said, many children were sent to Poland, which in a moment will go to Polish nursery schools, Polish kindergartens, Polish schools. These children are not always as vaccinated as Polish children. We know that in Ukraine two years ago there was a quite large epidemic of measles, this disease, which in Poland is actually no longer known. There was also a polio outbreak, a disease that is no longer present at all. This is obviously due to vaccination. That is why we want for these young Ukrainian citizens, for children, to introduce these vaccinations, of course also free of charge. We will encourage this through various actions, but mainly through family doctors, because we want these vaccinations of young Ukrainian citizens to take place in those places where they accept them. Let me remind you that the law on infectious diseases provides that up to 3 months vaccination is voluntary and after 3 months in our country such persons are already subject to vaccination. Also every child who is born in Poland, such a vaccination obligation, according to our vaccination calendar, is subject. And already many Ukrainians in our country were born. At the moment there are over 700 children of Ukrainian nationality in Polish hospitals. They are also treated free of charge. There are over 400 adults there. We can see that there are still some challenges ahead of Polish health services, but I am convinced that we will be able to manage and these people will be treated as well as people who live in the country, i.e. Poles. Warfight also caused many young people treated for oncology diseases to come to us because their therapy was interrupted in their home country And we continue this therapy, and we also refund this therapy. The time of war also prevents medical students in Ukraine from continuing their studies. That is why we have included in this law also the fact that students can continue this study in our country at medical universities. So far more than 200 Ukrainian students have applied to continue this course. We, of course, give them the opportunity to learn. There are also Poles who studied medicine in Ukraine More than 400 such people have returned to our country and they will also have the opportunity to continue their studies in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important, this law is fundamental, certainly for a few reasons. But also, I think, the Poles have opened their hearts to the Ukrainian people. This openness, I think, will not decrease over time. This is very important, because maybe we also someday don't give God! We will find ourselves in such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. Is that all of you? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator... Are you the senator? Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u65	I just don't know if one at a time... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: To which Minister? Tell me.]] Good. I'm going to see Minister God first, because it's more general. What about Ukrainian citizens who were in Poland before 24 February and for obvious reasons cannot return to Ukraine, and even if they wanted to return, often their homes, no more apartments? That's the first question. Two. Will it be possible to return to the mutual recognition agreement, with particular emphasis on medical academy diplomas? I'm asking because from the contacts I have... I live in Podkarpacie, it's like a second line of help. Because the first one is the state line, and the second one is us, with all the towns, municipalities, powiats. And I know that doctors are very much needed, especially in cases where the patient is chronically ill and brings documentation in Ukrainian. There's a shortage of translators, it's hard to communicate, and the treatment needs to continue. And the third question to Minister God. Will it be possible to purchase real estate, apartments by Ukrainian citizens? This has only been possible so far in the border area. But since many of these citizens come here with considerable resources and... For obvious reasons, these 18 months are the time that needed to be adopted today, but this time can significantly extend. Next question, to the Minister of Education and Science. Are all the information you spoke about in the Minister's office also relevant to private schools and schools, kindergartens and private crèches? And the question to the Minister of Kraska, it is these people who are seriously ill, chronically ill. There are many places in hospices, but due to the current process of financing hospices, there is no possibility of admitting those people there because there are restrictions on these limits imposed by the health fund. Is it possible for this time to allow these beds to be filled in hospices? Because there's a very professional help. And these are often hospices run not only by the state but also by NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u66	Thank you very much. Gentlemen of Ministers, please respond. One at a time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I answer those first questions that were addressed directly to me. As for those Ukrainian citizens who were in Poland before the outbreak of the war, if they And that's the way they've been in the territory. Polish legally, it doesn't change anything here in their case, in the sense that they are covered by the rights and benefits they had previously granted. One important issue that concerns them is this: If their residence title to stay in Poland is to expire in the coming days or weeks, by virtue of this law they have this extended until the end of the year. Of course, we assume that with the possibility of further extension, if necessary, although we all hope that they will be able to, because they want to. Get back together. But of course, yes, they all benefit from benefits, they're covered by them, and their residence titles I'm gonna say it again. It is extended until the end of the year. I think that was a question for me. And the question... [[It was still about the recognition of diplomas, but it's the Minister...]] But I don't think it's for me. [[...For the purchase of apartments by foreigners.]] Oh, good. It is Minister Piontkowski who will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u68	As far as children and young people are concerned, both kindergartens and non-public schools can, of course, also organise, on the same terms as schools and kindergartens run by... public schools. Facilitate recognition of diplomas and completed years of study. If students who go to university do not have documents, on the basis of a statement they can be accepted for a specific year of study, although we give the universities here the right to verify through some examination or discussion of this actual knowledge, as well as the software differences in studies between Ukrainian and Polish universities, so that this student from Ukraine gets on the right yearbook in Poland. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u69	There you go. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u70	I also meant to ask about people who come here from Ukrainian universities, for example. professors and people of various professions, about people who speak fluently, e.g. in English, and many of them also in Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u71	Here, too, is a simplified procedure, e.g. Competition mode will not apply to the admission of such scientists if the university wishes to accept such a person. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u72	Thank you. Yet... They're all...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u73	As regards the issue of the purchase of housing, the law does not regulate this area to any extent, but I think it is natural. She regulates the basic issues of those who are now fleeing the war. It's still a comprehensive law. If we were to anticipate all possible situations in other areas, I suspect it would take some time. In any case, this issue is outside the scope of the submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u74	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: I'm still here.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u75	Mrs. Senator, the war has indeed prevented students in Ukraine from learning, especially at medical universities. We know that medical staff, but not only, overall dental and medical staff, are very lacking in Ukraine and also in Poland, so we have introduced financial support for universities supervised by the Minister of Health; in order to allow further education to these people, we have exempted them from the education fees. It's about these people. Whether they are Polish or Ukrainian, they go to Poland and want to continue their studies at medical universities. And that is why we financially support these universities, giving scholarships to Ukrainian citizens. We also cover the costs of preparatory courses, because we want them to learn Polish, and to universities we cover the costs of education for the semester, which these students have to finish. To this day 166 students with Ukrainian citizenship and over 400 students of Polish nationality who have studied in Ukraine and this science cannot continue. Our universities have declared that they can accept 2,000 students, which is good news, and I think these students will benefit from it. But in this law is also what we have introduced in the covid act, i.e. the possibility of a fast path for Ukrainian citizens so that they can take up work in Poland. At the moment, we have improved this even more, but we have also expanded: such a person will be able to be employed not only by one entity, but by all entities where Ukrainian citizens will be treated, i.e. de facto such persons can work throughout the country. I think it's a big convenience, because it's very important that the person who's healing gets in touch with the doctor, the nurse who knows her native language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u76	Thank you very much. I would suggest that we ask one question after another, because then, in fact, ministers don't remember either... Please, Senator Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'll try to ask specific questions, I won't discuss it. Once again, I would like to hear whether there is a need for an additional amendment to the law which you have tabled, which has been voted by the Sejm, with regard to local workers. Should such an amendment be tabled? Can the mayor actually hire a man today? A woman, a man from Ukraine? If not, an amendment to the article will have to be tabled. 85. I would like to get a clear answer here whether there is a need for an amendment or not. That's the first question. Second question. Why doesn't the Minister of Health want to extend this admission to pharmacists from Ukraine? That's the second question. And the third question. The state in this submission, which has already passed through the Sejm, has given a number of powers to the Prime Minister and voivodeships, including the possibility of giving oral orders to institutions, local governments and even entrepreneurs. Why do you need this in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u79	I'm answering the first question. As I said in the committees about local workers: yes, you can hire on the same terms as our employee. If in a local government unit there is e.g. The contest, then that person will also have to take part in the contest. She can be hired, there's no obstacle. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. There you go... [[Voice from the room: But that's not all the questions...]] Oh, there you go. Excuse me, please answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u81	Mr. Senator, I didn't say that we didn't want to hire pharmacists, only the covidov bill allowed doctors, nurses and paramedics to do this, and at the moment we in the Ministry of Health are analyzing what is the system of training pharmacists in Ukraine because we didn't have it mapped out. If this education system is similar to that with us and the same qualifications, I also see no problem for the farmers to be able to work. That's right in front of us. At the level of this law we have not included this provision, because we do not yet know whether the system of training pharmacists in Ukraine is the same as ours, compatible. I would like to see if the senator goes to the pharmacy and there will be an apothecary of Ukrainian origin, so that he has the same knowledge as the apothecary who was educated in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u82	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: I answer the third question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u83	When it comes to this possibility of giving orders, because that's the way it is... [[Voice from the auditorium: Oral.]] Yes. These are solutions copied from previous covid laws, which have shown that in such a difficult, crisis situation it helps to quickly process, make decisions. They've proven themselves. They're being moved now. I dare say that here we should all agree that this crisis that we are facing and we are going to face is probably even more demanding than our fight against the pandemic. Therefore, we are moving solutions that have already passed the crisis test once and we hope that they will be able to help in the event of this crisis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u84	Thank you very much. Are those all your questions? [[Yes. Thank you very much.]] Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am a permanent resident of the Elbe, a small tourist town by the sea. I know very well the situation of the arrival of a large number of refugees in such a village. I think that such problems occur in many small towns in Poland, especially those of tourists. I have been approached by a lot of people who have accepted refugees in their private homes, in guesthouses, in holiday resorts, etc., without, of course, any material support for this reason, at least if it were to be accepted for a short period of time. They ask me, they ask me to ask the question: how do you, the Ministry, imagine the target model for receiving refugees in Poland? Are you basing this country on these people living in private homes with those people who will accept them free of charge? Do you see, however, that it will have to be done in the end, as we nevertheless anticipate that these refugees will probably not be short and a large part of them will remain permanent To develop a model in which people will have to live in guesthouses, holiday resorts, before they get an apartment, so to speak, their family will have to live in guesthouses, holiday resorts. or in any of the facilities that the public administration manages? How can you imagine such a model of functioning? And the point is that those who now accept these people, before the tourist period, do it out of their own resources. They're taking them now, but the moment they start earning time, they're gonna have to make money so they can charityally do it. Keep going. Of course, they pay attention to the issue of this amount of 40 PLN per day per person who is proposed. That's what they're asking. I understand that all those who accept these refugees are to receive these funds, whether they live in single-family homes, apartments or in some guesthouses, centers, etc., 40 PLN... Are these measures, according to you, also intended for food and accommodation for these people? Already today many of these refugees from Ukraine say: we know that you receive 40 PLN for us every day. Of course 40 PLN... if this is to cover... And these Ukrainians, some of them. Because not all are, as we know, saints among Poles and among those who come to us, think about it in different categories. Does the appropriations for this cover the cost of meals, cover the cost of the stay? There was also an analysis of the situation in the cafeteria at the elementary school in Łeba and there the principal of the school... Besides, he's got VAT issues about it, which, I think, you're tracking and monitoring, so here's a request to explain. It turned out that if the school principal wanted to make food for these people at cost, except for staff costs, it would be about 20 PLN per day's living. He figured it out, how much today is the feed rate for a 5-year-old child, how much an adult gets, etc. That's from such a simple calculation. Do you see it in any way, and I'm going to say that you want to organize it completely? The point is to say that now you're doing all this... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, but that's a problem that needs to be explained in general. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: That's why I gave you more time.]] I do. There are more questions here. But it requires such a comprehensive explanation, so that the case can be... Because today it is a key issue: to accept these people in different places in Poland. And there's nothing to smile about here, sir. These are absolutely serious problems, because that's what all those people who take in these people are talking about. There's no bad will here. There's just a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u86	Thank you very much. Which one of you will answer? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u87	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. It is indeed a comprehensive question and is probably a reason for such a broader reflection. The answer is yes, these forms of accommodation will be different, as they are now different. Some people choose to accept home, under their roof, another form, already realized now, are such forms more organized. And we also have to say that if this crisis goes on and on... [[Louder.]] If the crisis continues, if the number of people who flee to Poland before the war is increasing, I do not know, twice or more, then we will also have to consider increasing the number of places within the organized forms when it comes to accommodation. [[Isn't that a problem today?]] Let me say this: this is the phenomenon of Poland, that most people from this first wave Let's call it that, although it's been 2 weeks, she's found shelter in the houses of Poles. This is something that clearly distinguishes us from this migration crisis in the south of Europe from the years 2014 to 2015. After all, there were no centres with us, no refugee camps, they found shelter in the houses of Poles. And it's amazing. Therefore, to... And the Poles accepted them out of the goodness of their hearts, except that it would involve some equivalent. But we are aware that the costs incurred by Poles can be related to this. Hence this proposal for a flat-rate fee of PLN 40. Is that a lot or a little? It all depends on the conditions. But I'll give you an example here, Minister Szajner tells me. If the nutritional standard for persons who are located in centres run by the Office for Foreigners is 9 PLN... If on similar... [[Voice from the room: 9 PLN?]] Yes. For food per person. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Yes. That amount... Let's remember... Here, too, it's worth the senator's second part of the question, I think, to answer. First of all, this amount, this benefit, will benefit For the time being, so it is specified in the Act Up to 60 days. The point is not to permanently lead to the situation that those people who are fleeing war trauma are treated a little like those who are, I don't know, boarding houses in some resort because they don't want it. Their main desire is to If their presence in Poland lasts To become an active citizen as soon as possible, i.e. Go to school, get a job, find your own place. After all, it is obvious that it will be better for them to rent an apartment, not to remain especially in these large organized forms, e.g. living for a month in a post-exhibition hall in some exhibition centre, and with such a form of collective accommodation we are already dealing with and we will probably have to deal with it. I think we need to be flexible here in these solutions. Everything will depend on it, first of all, how many people will be sent to Poland. So far, we have, as far as organized forms are concerned, free seats, especially in smaller centres. Second... We talked about this a little bit today at the committee meeting, but... [[Are they at the disposal of the government?]] Very different. Some are run by local governments, some are run by voivodships. It is the voivodship at the level of the voivodship that organizes this database of places. Therefore, any person who goes to the reception point can go to such a place. Mr. Senator, it's also worth paying attention to one more thing... [[It doesn't pay off...]] [[This is not a question of cost-effectiveness. It's just...]] Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question-- Minister, have you answered yet?]] Yes. But still... [[There you go.]] I would also like to point out one thing which may be important for us in the case of such analyses and some projections. In the first days, people who went to Poland and declared the need to organize their accommodation were less than 2% all persons crossing the border. After a week, 20% people who crossed the border said they needed accommodation, and today 40%. I'm aware of that. I think we should all be aware of that. In the course of days, the longer this war lasts, the more often people will come to Poland who do not have a place of accommodation organized either by friends, whether by friends or by Polish institutions, and this need will grow. That's why it's so important to us. And we're doing this in parallel. It is also important that a large proportion of refugees who go to Poland have an open door to other European countries. Today Minister Mariusz Kaminski has been at the border since morning with his counterparts from Germany and France, who are declaring help in organizing transport for those refugees who will want to go to the west of Europe, directly. The State Fire Department is involved in this process, which has allocated more than 1,000 coaches for this purpose, so that all those who want to go further from Poland and look for shelter from the war will have the opportunity. This, of course, also helps with the EU directive a few days ago, which we also discussed at the committee meeting. Finally, yesterday, arrangements were also in place with the Ministry of Infrastructure and both Minister Adamczyk and Minister Bittel declared that they were after discussions with their counterparts from Western Europe, who would prepare special trains for those interested in going to Germany, France, Austria, Switzerland or other countries. We must have all these processes coordinated. It's obvious. There is also a certain limit, the limit of people who can be accommodated in Poland, but here we give full freedom, full freedom in the movement of Ukrainian citizens who are looking for shelter from war. I think somehow these elements... One more thing may be important. This amount of PLN 40 was discussed with representatives of local governments. I spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that it was at these weekly and even at this moment more frequent meetings, which were organized primarily by the Minister of Headernaker responsible for contact with local governments, that the amount of this benefit was discussed. But, of course, let's remember that this is for now, for 60 days. The prospect of developing this crisis will probably raise further questions for us. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u88	Mr. Senator, this is not a dialogue. [[It's not a dialogue, it's just...]] [[Dialogue can be because it's important.]] Mr. Senator, now Senator Joseph the Hare will ask. [[Sure. Only, Mr. Marshal, these matters require such an in-depth explanation...]] Mr. Senator, I understand... [[...because they listen to us...]] Mr. Senator... [[...and all those who want to help, and the answer isn't good for anything all the time.]] Mr. Senator, I've enrolled you in the question. It cannot be that there is a dialogue between you and the Minister and others are waiting. I understand they're polite and not protesting. Now I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając's question. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My questions will be on the subject of higher education mentioned in Article. 41. In accordance with the current Article. The 92th Law on Higher Education can be granted no more than 2 times per academic year. It's about the student benefit. In view of the loosening of this provision, which is to the citizens of Ukraine referred to in paragraph 1 of the Act under investigation. 10, there is no restriction on the number of patronages when applying for them from students covered by the Social Scholarships Act, and the question arises as to whether universities will receive additional funding for this purpose. I ask you this because these students can apply for benefits, and I'll put it this way every week. But wouldn't it be more rational to give them the same rights that Polish citizens have? This would not give rise to conflict situations. In the context of this question, I would also like to know how long the students of foreigners covered by the law will be able to apply for a social grant, grants and student loans. Is it considered to restrict the regulation of Article. 41 to the 2021/2022 academic year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u90	Thank you. Who are the questions to? [[Minister Piontkowski.]] Minister Piontkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u91	Mr. Senator, it's an authority, not an obligation. The Director doesn't have to give more help. This is, of course, related to the fact that we assume that some Ukrainian students can be in a much more difficult material situation. [[Minister, please speak up, because...]] We assume that some Ukrainian students can be in a much more difficult material situation than the average student from Poland. And that's why we assume that an exceptional situation can arise, that there will be more than two that are adopted today in legal solutions. And as far as the temporal scope is concerned, I need to talk to department heads because this isn't the part of the ministry that I do every day. I wouldn't want to lie to you in writing, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u92	Good. The Minister will answer this second question in writing. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u93	Thank you very much. I think you'll share who answers the question. I have three lines. First of all, we have the following situation. There is a Ukrainian citizen who came to Poland through Slovakia. It has a stamp of crossing the border, entering the European Union through the Slovak border, but it is in Poland. I understand he's applying to the municipality for PESEL and he's getting PESEL. What about work? Suppose the apartment is secured and there's an employer who wants to hire it. What happens in this situation? That's one thing. Second, private quarters. That's what Senator Klein was talking about. I understand that it is so that the owner of such accommodations where there are people from Ukraine goes to the commune. And then what? Is it that he signs a contract, as you wrote in this bill, or is it just on request that it checks out how many people there are, and he gets 40 PLN per person? A separate issue is whether these 40 zlotys are sufficient. Because in my opinion it's under these conditions, let's call it a war amount in some cases enough, but with breakfast, no longer with food... And finally, one last question. That's the question. Sorry, what's next? All you have to do is call Lviv or anyone to talk to who was there to know that this stream is increasing. It's not like it's gonna fall down. This mass of people that influences us will increase because she in Lviv is getting bigger every day. And here's the question: what scenarios do you have for this situation? Is it that we are going to talk about relocation of these people in other countries of the European Union, or are we going to ask for funds to sustain them? What are your scenarios? I don't require details, I require a general outline of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u94	Thank you, Senator. Here you go, which one of the ministers? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u95	The answer to the first question: if it enters through Slovakia and enters our country is legal, it can take up work on the same principles as we agreed for Ukrainian citizens. So that the market is open. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, which means within 14 days, the employer simply reports...]] Yes. That's right. [[Okay, thank you. And I'll ask you to answer any further questions. Thank you.]] [[You replied to the Swedish Minister.]] The second question has already been answered by the Minister of God. It is a question of issues related to relocation of refugees. He talked about talks that were with partners from the European Union. He also talked about the meeting of Minister Kaminski today with his counterparts from France and Germany. There was also a declaration that there would be special trains if refugees wanted to go abroad, that they would be transported. That is also the answer to that question. And to the third, Minister Szajner will answer, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u96	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna answer the third question exactly... Because, as I understand it, it's this application, this 40 PLN per person, right? For now, it's so planned that it'll benefit... There's gonna be a motion... [[I can't hear you. Excuse me. And introduce yourself.]] Jarosław Szajner, head of the Foreign Office. [[Thank you.]] First of all, I'm gonna fill in the question because the word for relocation is out. This isn't about relocation. The Council of the European Union decided on 4 March to introduce temporary protection. So all the countries of the European Union are cooperating in the reception of refugees. And, as the Minister of God said earlier about today's meeting of Minister Kaminski with his counterparts from France and Germany, it is intended to take this effort together to receive these people. Each country has a duty, has an agreed opportunity, and tries to accept these people as they can. And what is happening right now is the logistical challenge, what is happening right now, the transport of trains, coaches... These people can move to any country of the European Union where they want to be. So this is a joint effort. The senator asked me what to do next. We will continue to work together with the countries of the European Union to address this conflict, this influx of people who are fleeing from armed conflict. And I hope that not only Poland, but the whole Union will be able to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. But I have a question. Are you going to go for the money? [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Again?]] Is relocation... Are you going to go for the money?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u98	No, no. There's no talking about the amounts right now. The point is that all countries are making this effort together. We're not sharing. [[Voluntaryly.]] Voluntaryly. Here, too, I will draw attention to the fact that the Council of the European Union has resigned from the article. 11 Directive on the return of such persons if they move from country to country. There will be no turning back. Such persons have the opportunity to move and choose the country they want to be in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u99	Thank you. Senator Marek Plura. Remotely or is it in place? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, he made his amendments and left.]] Okay, okay. Well, when he comes, he's gonna ask a question. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u100	Mr. Marshal, I will begin with the Minister of Education, Minister of Piontkowski. Minister, briefly on the subject of learning Polish. In small towns, there will be 4, 5 or 7 students at school. You won't be able to run the whole class, but they'll get to class normally. And okay. And the question of teaching Polish. In small towns teachers of Polish language are not enough to provide free access to learning for everyone. Therefore, teachers at a school will have to work more. That limit of 27 hours... Will it be possible to hire teachers Is that a change in the Teacher's Charter over 27 hours? That's the first question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd ask you to keep your voice down, 'cause... Hey, Philip... [[Voice from the room: Don't ask too much.]] [[Mr. Senator, the senator can't hear his own voice.]] I would also like to ask about the question of the aid received for accommodation of a person from Ukraine who went to Poland. But there's a family that has a decision to stay for ten years. The family, which is from Ukraine and already lives in Poland. And now such a family receives a person from Ukraine. Will she also be subject to this aid?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u101	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u102	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I mentioned in this brief speech that we have amended the rules. The teacher will be able to work more than 1.5 jobs. We've abolished that rule. As I said, he will also be able to combine compensation and work with Ukrainian children. And in order to make it easier for local governments, especially the small ones, to set up preparatory units with meaningful numbers, we have proposed a solution to make such branches not only according to school areas. It's gonna be interclass or even interstellar. The communes can communicate with each other. As you mentioned, there may be three or five children from Ukraine. Well, let's have a few of the mobs talk to each other and set up one prep unit, where she'll be, say, some of the youngest children, some of the older and some of the oldest. It was agreed with the local authorities, this should facilitate the organisation of these preparatory departments. We are also aware of staff difficulties.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u103	Senator Marek Plura. [[Voice from the room: But there was another question.]] Oh, then answer the other one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u104	As regards the answer to the second question, the law clearly states that persons who entered Poland after 24 February, i.e. after the moment of aggression, will be covered by the law. Probably all of this would require an individual assessment. I suppose not knowing the case. Mr. Senator is talking about an individual case, but if anybody has a ten-year residence title, then he's certainly regulated here and can benefit from all benefits. [[Voice from the room:... Accommodation.]] Oh, here you're telling the principal there's no division into citizens... [[Voice from the room: So he gets it?]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. Senator Marek Plura.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. The first one is addressed to Minister Piontkowski. Minister, in our education system, students with a ruling on special educational needs can be, thanks to this ruling, students of special schools and integration schools. The same is true in kindergartens. The Act, which we are currently investigating, does not explicitly refer to pupils with these kinds of disabilities who are Ukrainian citizens. Hence the question: is there a need for an amendment that will clearly regulate and allow these students, these children, to get into such a school? This, of course, also applies to the issue of education subsidies. I understand that they can obtain Polish judgments... [[Timer signal]] ...but it's a long-term process, and here you can't interrupt these therapeutic functions of the school. The second question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u107	No, Senator, you're already out of time. [[Thank you.]] I'm writing you down. [[Thank you.]] I'm asking for an answer. Minister Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u108	Mr. Senator, any child from Ukraine at school will be admitted to the Polish school. Children are actually admitted to special schools or special centres on the basis of a judgment. The system of case law in Ukraine differs from the Polish system of case law, which is why we have appealed to the pedagogical and psychological counsellors, which in Poland issue judgments on the basis of which the child is eligible for appropriate assistance, so that they will examine the requests of parents or temporary guardians of these children as soon as possible. We want them to reach these specialist centres as soon as possible. However, there is no obstacle for them to be immediately registered in general schools, in which there are special branches. So that there is no need to make an amendment. Children requiring special treatment, with special needs, will also benefit from the Polish education system. There will also be a subsidy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u109	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u110	Thank you very much. I'm here to see Minister God... Essential question: did the government predict the number of refugees Can Poland absorb? If this number is unknown if it is not specified in the Act, the financing of this law is in principle fictional. So I'd like information on that. There will be other costs at 1 million... [[Mr. Senator, Minister of God isn't here right now.]] [[Voice from the room: This is the next...]] [[Well, maybe...]] No, I have a question for... [[Ask someone else, and then you will address this question to the Minister of God.]] Well, how can there be no minister? [[He left for a while. Oh, he's coming back.]] Good. [[Say the question again, and I'll count the time.]] You're gonna count off the marshal's time, 'cause later... [[All right, go ahead.]] [[It's just gotten really weird.]] A question for the Minister of God. Why didn't the government estimate and impose a limit on the people that Poland is able to accept? The fact that, so to speak, a certain degree of carelessness in this regard, which is due to the need of the heart, indicates that this law does not have guaranteed funding. Others will be the cost of implementing it with 1 million refugees, while others with 3 million refugees. Has the government even considered this subject? The second question concerns such a question... That, too, is a question for the Minister of God. Is there a dialogue with Ukrainian organisations on the relocation of refugees to the territory of the Republic of Poland? It would then be easier to convince the Ukrainian community to settle in smaller centres than to do so in some other way, which could be considered arbitrary. And the third question... [[Timer signal]] This is where the bell rings, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. [[I'm the one signing up for the next round.]] All right, Mr. Senator, I'll write it down. You're welcome, Minister of God.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u112	I'll start with the second question, sir, if you don't mind. We use all the possible ways to talk about this at the meeting of the Joint Committees, which help to popularize information addressed to refugees, that in smaller centres, other than these big cities... And the conditions of accommodation, and the possibilities of finding work or self-emancipation for longer are not smaller in these towns, and are often even greater. At the same time, we have no tools... We wouldn't want to do that, especially to people who are traumatized by war. We're not going to decide about such a thing. That's how it sounded in the senator's statement to force their deployment. I'm convinced that as soon as these first people, and we're watching, they'll be properly taken care of, they'll find themselves in smaller centres... I am convinced that when such whispered information through social media or through contacts with other groups of refugees, e.g. from the same localities in Ukraine, will go to such people, these people will choose smaller centers. I'll get right to question one. It is not our intention or prefer to show that we will accept as a Polish state 1 million or 1.5 million and the rest will not. Well, how can you? I cannot imagine that the Polish state would refuse to shelter someone who is looking for this refuge in Poland. At the same time, we are carrying out activities, and these are very intensive actions in terms of both the level of the head of government and the competent ministries, as I have also said, namely our Ministry of Home Affairs or the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are working to create permanent, permanent, quotes, channels that refugees would go to the west of Europe, but only if, I would stress, if that were their will. We assume, I think, that such the most Christian and open, that refugees have the right to seek refuge in the country in which they want to find them. I can't imagine any forceful, authoritarian indication: it's some amount, it's cut off, and the rest we don't accept. However, we are doing very intensive work. Today has brought great promises and announcements that Western European countries will welcome those who want to go to this Western Europe to its chosen countries. This process is coordinated both through the formations that we are subject to. I spoke here about the role of the State Fire Department. As well as through the railroad. Let us remember that we are obviously dealing with stock companies, but they are in some sense under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Infrastructure. These activities are carried out, but only in such a way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u113	Mr. Marshal, but I asked you to fund the bill. The Minister, so to speak, went to a lecture on Christianity here, and I was just asking about specifics. I would ask you to answer the question: what will happen when the costs of implementing this law, the costs of this stay The government estimated them, as Senator Kochan said, at PLN 7.8 billion above the planned amount? Well, the scale of this tragedy that's happening in Ukraine surprises us all. I'd like a clear answer from the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u114	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u115	Mr. Senator, it was not in any way an escape from the answer. Please also understand that we are all 20 hours on our feet or longer, often without sleep, in the Senate itself for a very long time. Therefore, it is not a bad will or a desire to escape the answer. I just didn't remember that part of your question. I'm answering. The OSR to the submitted bill determines the costs at this moment at PLN 7.9 billion, because this is how we estimate the needs of the present. I can't predict. I don't think the senator can either. How this crisis is going to evolve and how many refugees will have to be accepted in Poland or how many will prefer to choose another destination. Obviously, if the number of refugees is greater, it will simply be necessary to amend and seek additional resources. I believe that the solution adopted with this aid fund is so good that it is also a place to make payments not only from the state budget but also from other entities, institutions or countries that will want to be involved in this process. Well, we have, for example, a declaration, of today, of the United States with financial support just for Poland and other countries receiving refugees. In my view, this fund will provide this possibility: a stream of funds whether it's from the state budget or from other sources, it can influence there. Of course, no one will say clearly what number of refugees can go to Poland. We have some projections, in different variants, but, as I said, the overarching principle is that we will accept anyone who is seeking refuge from war, because that is the moral duty of Poland. Poland is today the spokesperson for Ukraine and the conscience of the whole of the European Union, the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski... [[Then it was counted...]] No, Mr. Senator. [[These seven, nine...]] You've been through a lot of time. Just hang on to the time, okay? There are 10 people waiting and there are others who have the right to ask questions. One senator can't dominate others. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u117	I'm gonna ask you a question. I don't think anybody's discussing closing the border before refugees, because, in fact, limiting refugees would mean closing the border. Nobody in Poland makes such a request. I would like to ask Minister Piontkowski a specific question. It is about students of refugees who studied at Ukrainian universities and crossed the border with a wave of refugees without Ukrainian citizenship. I would like to ask whether the government is prepared to implement the request also of the General Council of Science and Higher Education and to extend their rights to students of refugees with Ukrainian citizenship. I think it would be an expression of solidarity with this particular group, with young people studying, and such a sign that Poland does not apply any differences in this area. I think it is for the image of Poland that matters enormously. Is the government willing to support this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u118	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u119	Senator, the entire bill is addressed to Ukrainian citizens who, after 24 February this year, crossed the border with Poland. Not nationals of other countries. Therefore, these specific provisions, including Ukrainian citizens or Polish citizens who have studied in Ukraine, do not apply to nationals of other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u120	Thank you very much. Senator Janina Sagatowska is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have a question for you, Minister of God. I'm not entirely convinced... Perhaps this question slightly refers to Senator Czarnobaj's question. The answer was so quiet and I didn't understand... I have a specific, very short question. There is a family that came from Ukraine before the war, has the right of permanent residence, and now, as part of solidarity with their homes, with their nation, receives many refugees in their home. Will she be able to use this help? Because that's where it says it's for Poles. I just want to know if this family will be able to benefit from this benefit up to 60 days, of those 40 PLN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u122	Thank you. Here you go, which one of you will answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u123	I'll tell you as short as I can. Art. 13 (1) says: "Every operator, in particular a natural person running a household, who will provide accommodation and catering to Ukrainian citizens as referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1, a cash benefit may be granted on the basis of a contract concluded with the municipality for a period of not more than 60 days. Everyone, and therefore anyone you point to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u124	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Rusiecki. You're welcome. [[Jarosław.]] Jarosław. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. I think the first one is to the Minister of God or to the Minister of Sweden. The situation is as follows: Ukrainian, who already worked as a driver in a large corporation in Poland before the war activities, in a large company, was driving not only in Poland, but mainly abroad, the visa that enabled him to perform these tasks throughout Europe ended in those days. What should he do to legalize his stay in such war conditions and ensure the legality of his work? And then there's the second line. Namely, there are help organizations in Poland, charities, which want to provide assistance, e.g. in the form of food. But how do we distinguish between a refugee who came after the start of the war and someone who's been working here for a long time, and who shouldn't benefit from this kind of help? Is there another document outside the passport that could show a Ukrainian who is eager to obtain such assistance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u126	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Goddess, I'm sure he'll answer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: If the marshal permits, Minister Szajner will answer this specific question.]] Please, Minister Szajner.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u127	Jarosław Szajner. I will answer the question about the driver who moves using a visa whose validity ends in the conditions we are currently dealing with. Well, he can't do it again, because he can't go back to the country, Ukraine, Ukraine. The situation here is not so simple, because we as a Polish country extend the residence titles, as we said, until 31 December 2022, but that does not mean that other countries will recognise this extension. So the simplest solution... We also applied this during the previous crisis, i.e. during the pandemic. It is best to go to the voivodship office in order to obtain a temporary residence permit, a uniform residence permit and work permit. Then such a driver will have a residence card that entitles him to cross the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[And the other thing...]] Uh-huh. What was the line? [[... about the use of help in the form of lunches and how to identify...]] It's Minister Swede who's gonna answer. It's about helping things out. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I don't know much about what... Ask the senator again, maybe then you...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u129	You're welcome. The situation is as follows: it is an aid organisation, e.g. Caritas, who now wants to help us in the form of meals, free meals. But how to distinguish between a Ukrainian who works and is, let's call it, wealthier, so what is this help in the form of dinners in Caritas unnecessary, from those Ukrainians who come to Poland at that time? [[Thank you...]] Is there another document outside the passport?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u130	Sure. How can you tell the Ukrainians who had stayed with us before, from those who fled after February 24th? [[Yes, sir, yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u131	Well, maybe I'll try to answer that question. I think it's not our job right now to look for a way to distinguish between who's more hungry and who's less hungry: is the one who's arrived right now, running from the war, or the one who's actually short of money, because maybe he can't go back to his country, or maybe he's having trouble finding a job? I wouldn't consider it in this context. If it's someone in need, I think it's worth giving him a meal like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u132	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My two questions are certainly addressed to the Minister of God or to the Minister who deals with similar topics. Well, we should support, I would call it, the Ukrainian pro-Citizen attitude, for example. It's a duty to protect the country. Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 reads: "Departure of a Ukrainian citizen from the territory of the Republic of Poland for a period of more than 1 month deprives him of the right referred to in Article. 2 (2) One, that is to say, deprives him of his powers under this law. But this way, if anybody wants to... It's obviously bad for our labour market, but it's definitely better for the Ukrainians. If someone wants to leave Poland to Ukraine to simply fight for their homeland, then they will automatically be deprived of these rights. Well, there's no exception here for these kind of people. And this isn't about going to the West or to another country. That's the first line. The second point, a little bit like that, concerns Article. 2 (2) 4. In accordance with the provision, the Council of Ministers may, by means of a regulation, set a date for the last day of the period in which this law, which is also legal residence, is in force. And now, yes, this date is the same for all and, moreover, the family situation is not taken into account in the guidelines for this paragraph. And we should probably lean more on the situation, for example. Men who will come here to their families, not to the lonely, but to those who will come to their wives, to their children. Shouldn't there be some balance here? As I say, it's not in the guidelines. And the question of a different nature, more general, perhaps not a question, but rather a suggestion. Well, there may be more and more of these people, we do not know how the conflict in Ukraine will end. Shouldn't it be? In one of the main programs of Polish television one of the journals, not the most important, perhaps, but some other, at a fixed time, broadcast in Ukrainian or Russian? I am not convinced that among those who are now fleeing to Poland, there are more people who speak Ukrainian or Russian. Just to give them the latest information. And of course, if this is possible, you could run not so much a special program as programmes that would teach children, but there are a lot of them in this emigration, Polish language. I'm sure there are possibilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u134	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u135	Mr. Senator, to answer the first question, I'd like to say. That's exactly what the senator said, wondering if that's our intention. It is a matter of not being covered by the benefits of this law by people who will leave Poland to the West. The point is that we have to deal with... so that only those who have fled the war in Poland are citizens of Ukraine and cross the border after 24 February. As long as they are in the territory of Poland, they are covered by benefits, and when they leave for the West, they will cease to apply these benefits. However, the case you mention concerning a Ukrainian citizen who is returning to Ukraine to defend his homeland, because that's probably what this is all about... When he crosses the Polish border again, leaving Ukraine for the same reason for the second time, he will again be covered by this law. That's how I read it, and I think it's definitely the intention we had here. All my friends are nodding, that's how we understand it together. And the second question... If, Mr. Marshal... [[Art. 2 (2) 4. It's about these guidelines, and I'd call that, about family reunification and that date the same for everyone. The end of the period of validity of the law or legal entry under this law...]] I'm sorry, but I'm having trouble understanding this question and... The Act sets a 60-day term for those benefits that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. Minister Szajner says he'll try. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u136	As far as I understand it, Mr. Senator, it's about this closing date, when we decide that this stay no longer entitles to the things that we propose in the bill. It's about ending this conflict. It is a time when the Polish government will recognise that it is already safe to be in Ukraine and there is no need to flee from armed conflict. Similarly, on a proposal from the European Commission, the Council of the European Union indicated, in its decision on mass influx and the definition of temporary protection, on 24 February as the starting date, but with the possibility This is also indicated in the 2001 Directive, when we consider that there is no longer a conflict and a threat of mass influx. This, of course, is judged. The Polish government will observe how this conflict will develop, and when this threat is no longer present, such a date will be set. Let's hope it's as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u138	I still remembered the second or third question that came between the lines about some special broadcasts. Well, it's not covered by this submission, this bill, so obviously we're not talking about it. But I don't think I'm going to reveal anything here that I couldn't say if I said that I know that, in the Ministry of Culture, work is being done on the application that would consume the senator's request. And I know that, for one thing, because I sent one of the officials to this team no further than I did yesterday. So that's how I read this application from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u139	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The first question I would like to address to Minister Kraska on behalf of our self-government, Minister, Krakow. As you know, we have a lot of refugees and actually Krakow is crowded. And we have a problem... The question is: if a sick Ukrainian citizen wants to see a doctor and there is no PESEL number, will he be admitted? Well, if the Minister nodded, I guess you could say yes. It's okay. It's okay. The second part of my question is that I had just spoken to the secretary of our community, Mrs Marta Nowak, and she said that they had a problem at which point the government would become involved in preparing for this administration because they had to appoint 20 officials and so on... Maybe I'm misunderstood. But is there money in this bill for this part of the administrative preparation of this... Because it's a big, very big undertaking. And the last question is... [[Timer signal]] You said the Minister... [[Timer signal]] ...that there may be coordination that Ukrainians want to get abroad... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ask the third question, but quickly...]] Yeah, but you gave Czerwinski 48, and Fedorovich... [[You were pointing at Czerwinski, and I'm pointing at you.]] Good. But I'm just asking... [[Senator Czerwinski next time I'll check the time carefully and...]] [[I'm with you.]] I mean, the buses are going from the border to a specific location, e.g. to Germany, etc. In Krakow... Would such coordination be possible, that there are people from Krakow... who are the most at the moment... so that these trips are somehow coordinated from the government side? End of question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u141	The second minute is coming... [[That's what I'm entitled to...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u142	I'm gonna answer the second question because it's within the purview of our department. This process is already ongoing because we have a diagnosed situation concerning Krakow, Katowice, Warsaw, where really these refugees are the most. But at the same time, many of them declare their willingness to go further. And that's what coach transport is supposed to be for. Their coordinator is the voivode's government, who, in cooperation with the State Fire Department... And by means of direct intergovernmental arrangements at the level of the Minister of Infrastructure and its counterpart in the Federal Republic of Germany we adopted... The intention is precisely what the senator said, which means that there should be no such situation that the transport of refugees who want to go to Germany goes to the border. He's supposed to go to specific towns. And we're working on it. This is how it will be now when it comes to both coach and rail transport, which will be launched. [[There it is... I understand that it's...]] It's going on... [[Thank you...]] It's taking time. They're on their way. [[Would you like to sign up, Senator?]] This process is already coordinated by the voivode. Moreover, I think the Lesser Poland Voivode is one of the more efficient organizers of this process. Because he's facing a bigger challenge...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u143	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Kazimierz Klein. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: But there was also a second question.]] I ask the ministers for brief answers. It's not just the senators I'm asking for short, concise questions. For up to 1 minute, but also the ministers, please answer briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u144	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Every Ukrainian citizen who crossed the border after 24 February has the right to free health care... [[Thank you...]] ...even if he doesn't already have a PESEL.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Quickly, my questions... Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister of Education to look at the issue of admission of pupils to schools And basic, and extra-basic. The problem is that our education system after the liquidation of the middle school is quite different from the Ukrainian system, where children go to school at the age of 6 years. And it turns out that children who are kind of high school are headed to kindergarten. Me, for example. I got a signal from the Tricity that people who went to art schools in Orłów were not admitted to art schools before. But it's just a request to look into it. And I am more interested in the problem of the budget and the financing of this whole refugee project. And my question is this: how did you estimate the expenditure on the implementation of the refugee law and the amount that is included in this law, and how will the supervision look like? [[Timer signal]] Because we have a problem with that. It is about supervision of public spending by Parliament, mainly the Sejm. Will that money be off the budget again? Which is the biggest problem of recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u147	Thank you, Senator. There you go... Mr. Senator, I went to this school and will intervene.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u148	That's good, Mr. Marshal. It is necessary to intervene, because it is the principal of the school and the teachers who, on the basis of a statement from their parents about how many years a child has been studying, who takes into the right class. So if it actually happened that a 17-year-old girl wants to go to kindergarten, it's just absurd and this director should be responsible. [[I think it's...]] I understand you've gone a little overboard to exaggerate a little bit of a problem to show him more. Let me repeat: every student from Ukraine will find a place in the Polish school. If he doesn't speak a language, he should go to the Preparatory Unit. If he knows, he can go to a class suitable for a given age.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u149	Thank you. Mr. Senator, can I have some information, please? I'll intervene, and then eventually we'll address the Minister. And now I'm gonna ask... [[What a budget! It's a budget issue.]] Oh, there's a budget issue. This is the Minister of God.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u150	Mr. Marshal, I have the feeling that the answer to this question has already been answered twice. And at the committee meeting, and here. If necessary, maybe even someone from the Ministry of Finance will answer them in writing. But I really have the feeling that this particular financing thread indicated in the OSR has been clearly exposed here and before. [[I wasn't at the committee meeting, but if it was, I withdraw... although I sit here all the time and listen conscientiously.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u151	Good. Thank you very much. Now I'm asking the question. I'm here to see Minister Swede. In view of the refugee situation, does the government intend to suspend the law prohibiting trade on Sundays? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u152	No, he's not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u153	He's not going to. Mr. Senator Plura. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u154	Thank you very much. The second question is addressed to government representatives. I mean, in the bill... [[Mr. Senator, a little louder because you can't hear.]] Okay. In the law we are working on, there is a record that allows doctors, nurses and midwives to pursue their profession in Poland, if they have Ukrainian powers to do so, but with the indication that they can only pursue this profession in medical institutions. My question is: why such a limitation? And it comes to me when I think about social services homes, where nurses also work, often doctors, where refugees from Ukraine are also admitted and where, as in hospitals and clinics, doctors and nurses are missing. Would it be worthwhile, therefore, to extend this range of entities entitled to employ nurses and doctors by means of an amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think the situation that's happening right now is so dramatic that doctors and nurses are needed here when we need to treat. If this process continues, I'm sure we'll consider allowing work in this sector that you've told the senator about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u157	Thank you. Senator Maciej Łuczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Minister Swede. Does a Ukrainian citizen registered as unemployed declare to health insurance at the county employment office members of his family, e.g. Children? Second question. For a Ukrainian citizen registered as unemployed in accordance with the provisions of Article. 2 (2) 1 point 2 of the Employment Promotion Act and the employment market institutions is paid by the health insurance office? Because under the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country... Is healthcare provided? In a word, Minister, a citizen is going to Ukraine, a citizen of Ukraine... Is that where the health contribution will apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u159	Thank you very much. Minister Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u160	I'm gonna answer in writing because I need to check it out. At the moment, at the specialist's office, it looks a little different when it comes to health insurance... In our system, if you register as unemployed, you will be insured immediately. It seems to me that... today it also applies to Ukrainian citizens who work with us and register as unemployed. It doesn't change around here. Will the funding system change with the specialty... Well, I'm gonna leave it right now, 'cause I'm not gonna be able to answer that quickly. From those provisions that we have today, it appears that if he registers as unemployed, he will of course benefit from health insurance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u161	Thank you very much. Have you answered all the questions of the Minister? Good. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about this flat-rate payment for taking a refugee into private quarters, a question for Minister Pogoda. Is the minister here? Oh, there it is. Yeah, yeah, I can see that. I'm sorry. What it is, because here we are talking about the amount of 40 PLN, and some of the old men referred to the arrangements with the voivods... I talked on Sunday, for example. with the old man and he talked about the amount of 120 PLN. There were supposed to be some regulations, some agreements in this area were signed. Other territories of the Republic of Poland, from other voivodships, can be heard that voivodships talked about other amounts. What's the situation? Is it somehow just contained? Is there a uniform rule here? I ask because it seems like there's some variation here, which doesn't make it possible to clearly define the policy principles in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u164	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! The answer is simple. At the time when this wave appeared in the first hours or in the first days, the aid was organised directly by the voivods who made certain commitments, and indeed these amounts could have been different. It is precisely to ensure that this is harmonised, standardized, that the amount of PLN 40 appeared in the public space, which we stress clearly does not result from this law, which we are now proceding, but is our announcement from the regulation implementing this law. It is simply that in the future, which, of course, cannot change the arrangements that the voivods had previously made, I repeat, in the future, after the entry into force of the law and after the regulation was issued, this amount was set at this level. This issue was also the subject of discussions with local government officials and voivodships, and I think it is obvious that Depending on how this situation is going to be, how this conflict is going to be in Ukraine, and consequently, with the need to guarantee what number of accommodations we will be facing, it will be subject to further analysis. Well, I don't think I'm gonna get in the middle of something special when I say that I assume that there's also some flexibility allowed here, because if someone finds space in a very high standard, and there are no other possibilities, hotel space or other in the amount of 45 PLN, then the voivode will certainly have some flexibility here. I think the differences you've been talking about are the result of what's happened so far, because actually the voivods have been doing well by themselves so far. Now this message is unambiguous, among others. just so that it is not so that the voivodships of each other or self-government say to each other: and with my neighbour in the voivodship That's a different amount. Hence this announced standardisation in the regulation, which will be issued later.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u165	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question about the possible employment of Ukrainian citizens in offices, city offices or other offices where there are requirements that apply to civil servants. While this service has been abolished in practice during the rule of law and justice, these offices have certain requirements for the people they employ, among others. on education. Here I mean people who could work as translators, as people who know Polish and Ukrainian. Will there be any facilitations and employment opportunities here, or do these people have to meet the same criteria that Polish citizens meet in order to be employed in these offices? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u167	Thank you very much. Please, which one of you?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u168	Thank you. We've already answered that question. Of course, they can be hired. The simplest form in this case is the contract-order. Of course, in exceptional circumstances, the manager may consent to another form of employment, e.g. in the case of an interpreter, such a form of employment, in my opinion, would be acceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u169	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question for you. Those who were accommodated in individual homes, families or centres, as we said, were often accepted for such oral referrals from the city office. And in a natural way, there can be various types of conflict situations... Or they were taken without anything, just on the phone, that's what happened most often, at least in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, so to speak. And my question is that kind of question. There could be conflict situations for some reason, couldn't there? And this problem needs to be solved. How, to whom should these owners of homes, apartments, etc. to ask for a transfer of a person, a family to some other accommodation? Because decisions to accept individual families or individuals do not specify the date for which they are to be adopted. They're just such a reflex, so to speak, Christian. It opened and the door opens, that's how it starts, but at some point there might be a problem with ending this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u171	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u172	Mr. Senator, I can't imagine that such a question, in practice, of some individual potential interpersonal conflict, would be regulated by law. The way I pictured it... But okay, I'm gonna try not to be critical of the question itself. Such a person can always go back to the reception point and receive a referral to another place. But to be honest, I can't imagine the situation that you said to the senator that someone's in a private apartment on a decision-making basis. This seems absolutely impossible to me. And if, as we say... [[Minister, there is no matter of accommodation...]] No, location indications, location indications. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, please finish the minister. You'll still be able to ask.]] I can't imagine this. It seems to me that such a person simply goes back to the reception point, if he has a need to change his place of residence, and uses the available base. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u173	Do you want to ask the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u174	I accept that, of course. I know things like this are already happening. Right? There are different human situations that we can't predict, and that's the only reason I'm talking about it. If that's the way to do it, then I take it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Minister God. We now have about 1 million 700 000 refugees from Ukraine. Tell me what part of it has been absorbed by private individuals. Can you at least say roughly? That's 50%, 40%. or 90% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u177	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u178	Mr. Marshal, let me begin by correcting that the number of refugees who arrived in Poland from Ukraine has not exceeded... maybe only today will exceed 1.5 million. One million and 470,000 were at 3:00. It'll probably be $1.5 million by tonight. It's not 1 million $700,000 yet. I also pointed out And that's the only way I can answer the senator's question. That demand was changing. In the first days 2% people needed an organized accommodation, i.e. the rest of them went to private persons, guessed. At the beginning of the second week it was 20%, the others were still absorbed by individuals. Today it's 40%. , i.e. A little by analogy, otherwise you can't do it. - 60%. - 60%? It needed organized quarters. This proportion will decrease. If only I could estimate it. But it's going to be a big generalization, I'd say that probably 1 million people went just under the roofs of Poles, to their private apartments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u179	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, gentlemen, for your answers. [[Mrs. Marshal, I asked you a question, but you didn't read me.]] You weren't registered. [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator, but please... [[No, no. Mrs. Marshal, I signed up for Senator Martynowski.]] He's not here. [[I'm sorry.]] Good. Anyway, you're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for you, Minister of God. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 99 of this law is such a catalogue of bodies and institutions, to which the Chief of Border Guard makes sensitive data available. It's in your mouth. 2. This catalog is quite large, 23 bodies and institutions are listed. Aren't you afraid that... shouldn't that be limited to the security services, possibly the Minister of Computerization? Well, at least I'm so worried there might be a cyber attack against these institutions. Are they properly secured? Here are listed actually all local governments, there are also ZUS, KRUS. If you could answer that question... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u181	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u182	I need a moment to think, Mrs. Marshal. Okay? One second. Because here with the Border Guard... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Good.]] Mr. Senator, indeed, it would be advisable to divide this category of entities into two. I mean, part of the data would be made available by the Chief Border Guard, and part of it would go like this. by the Minister of Digitization, i.e. within the framework of the KPRM this entity... If such an amendment had been tabled, it would have consumed a proposal coming so far from the Border Guard. So that we would agree to such an amendment that would make such a distinction, so to speak, to separate them from each other. Information services from other institutions. That would be good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u183	Thank you very much. And that was the last question. I would like to inform you that the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Józef Zając and Senator Maciej Łuczak. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear guests! We have the biggest migration crisis after World War II. I think everyone in this room is aware that the social, economic, cultural, political consequences of this war, which is taking place directly with our neighbour, this tragic, brutal war, where human rights are being violated and trampled, where there are war crimes, where there has been an attack on a sovereign and independent state. In Europe, the 21st century will be huge. Therefore, in this case, And that's what I asked in this debate. First of all, it is necessary to address the European Commission and also to develop the financing of this refugee drama, which takes place in front of us, the largest in Europe after the Second World War. This crisis requires solidarity between European countries, which clearly stand for freedom in this war, human rights, peoples' rights to self-determination, freedom and violent aggression. Time too. And this is what I asked the Minister of God to determine what number of people Poland is able to accept. I didn't ask because I'm having second thoughts about helping refugees. Absolutely not, Minister. You misunderstood me. I just wanted to recall Prof. Duszczyk, an outstanding specialist in migration matters, a professor at the University of Warsaw, who stated that Poland is able to accept for a longer period 500 and 700 thousand people. Because it is not about accepting at the moment the enthusiasm which is and for which we should thank our fellow countrymen who make such a gift of heart, but about enabling refugees to find themselves on Polish soil in a systematic, structural, consistent, long-term manner. Making a mistake in migration policy will result in a very long period of time. This is not a law such as the Polish Government Tax Act or other laws that can be amended sooner or later. The social, political, cultural consequences of the mistakes made at this moment by the Polish state will be very long-term, who knows or not for generations. And in my opinion this is from this point of view the most important law or the biggest problem we face in this term in the Polish Parliament and the Polish government. And from this perspective, we need to look at this issue. That is why we need to have a sensible policy here, without emotion, and focus on long-term phenomena. Prof. Patrycja Matusz from the University of Wrocław clearly states that the migration crisis will intensify social conflicts, including in Poland, and we have galloping inflation and various other difficulties that arise. The project proposed by the government causes a whole range of ambiguities. It was very clear to Senator Kochan that the bill was... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Only I would ask the ministers not to joke, because we are really talking about a very important moment in the history of Poland. Please respect the Parliament and the place where you are. This isn't a coffee shop, so... if anyone wants to talk, please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, pay attention to the ministers. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ministers, I would very much like to ask you to allow the senators to speak.]] And you can count me off the time I'm wasting because of that. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I'll count you off, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. However, some experts point out that despite the government's good intentions and assumptions in the bill, which was prepared very quickly and in a very short time, there are a lot of shortcomings. This could have undesirable consequences in the future. The way of achieving the right goals, which are indicated in the draft law, is very bureaucratic and practically impossible to achieve on the scale that we are dealing with, says Prof. Maciej Duszczyk. We were talking here about the case concerning PESEL, about broadcasting it in the administrative system, what this will mean for the municipal authorities. Other benefits, such as 500+, also require a visit to the office and submission of documents. We're not talking about the tax system at all. And how will this situation, which will occur in Poland, have a bearing on the tax system? There are people who are coming to Poland right now... Some of them will certainly be over 180 days, which will produce specific effects. The issue that was raised here concerned the qualifications in schools. Why not try to engage in some practical way e.g. Ukrainian teachers in the Polish school system, which would solve many problems, which would simply cause our educational system to have very big problems. Another issue is the question of this salary or a flat-rate fee for those who decide to take refugees home. High Izbo, the public places where such a number of refugees can reside, have limited capacity. Without a private base, it's impossible. Do we want to make people roam the streets? Do we want to lead to some Dantesian scenes? We need to think about a clear, clear way that we can do this, and we need to be able to do it. That's why I was talking about the Puck district I'm related to because of my place of residence. There is a powerful tourist base that could be used rationally. That's a couple hundred thousand beds. She could be used, only need to introduce clear, clear rules and rules, so that each party, including a refugee, would know what rules it uses, how long it takes, what it deserves, what it doesn't deserve... It is also a matter of ensuring that the owner of a guesthouse or such a base has his rights guaranteed, because this is his source of livelihood, that thousands of families live out of it. Here's another case. This next issue is a matter of the refugee crisis itself. Well, High Izbo, Vladimir Putin's goal is not only to take control of Ukraine, but also to create huge social tensions in the countries of the European Union. The Russian dictator wants to. According to experts, this will lead to a massive refugee crisis, unprecedented in Europe after World War II. The disputes in the European Union against this background are only a matter of time, says Wojciech Konończuk, Vice-Director of the Eastern Studies Centre. In recent days we have seen more frequent fire on civilians, buildings, housing districts, says the expert. This is not a coincidence, contrary to what the Russians say. It is premeditated with the planned action to intimidate the population, cause panic and banish as many people as possible abroad. According to Mr Wojciech Konończuk, Vice-Director of the Eastern Studies Centre. And he goes on to say: "This problem may exceed the scale of the Syrian conflict. The war in Syria banished 4 and 5 million people from the country. If the war continues in Ukraine, only in Poland will we receive 1 million refugees from Ukraine a week. This is a number that no country can handle alone. [[Timer signal]] Professor Marek Duszczyk, as I mentioned... [[It's been a while...]] [[The time hasn't passed because it's been extended...]] Time has been deducted because... Your marshal admitted to me... [[Yes, indeed.]] The sooner we understand that Poland is not able to do everything alone, it is not able to accept all and provide them with a decent stay, the better. And it's not only better for us, but for those who have fled to us and seek refuge. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians will not stay in their homes Poles or Ukrainians living in Poland. Short-term Yeah, it's working. In the long, and this is what we are dealing with, Professor Duszczyk does not say. I think it is worth remembering these words, as well as this debate that took place today in the Senate. It is also worth remembering that migration policy should be thoughtful, long-term and consistent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u186	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Yes, indeed, the drama that takes place in front of our eyes is a drama not only of the Ukrainian people, but also of our drama. We have friends there, friends there, we went to Ukraine. Therefore, the hearts of Poles have been opened, we have also opened our houses, we are constantly helping with great commitment, everyone, as they can. And the kind of help that's been going on for two weeks, it's probably gonna last for a long time until it's needed. That's who we are, that's our character, we know we have to help, and we help. And there's no doubt about that. Thanks should be given to all, all citizens who have been involved in different ways. Health workers should also be thanked. Let us remember that after two years of the Coronavirus epidemic, which is really still an epidemic, an epidemic situation, they now have another huge, huge challenge. This challenge, as you know perfectly well, will not be short-lived, it will not be to provide benefits for a short time, because those who have come to us and who stay with us are mainly mothers and these are mainly children who, as we know, are sick and will be sick. They're gonna need backup, they're gonna need medical personnel involved. Therefore, speaking of this great sacrifice, which we Poles give with all our heart, let us remember this here, in the Senate, when we are working on the law, when we want to ensure the best right for citizens who have come here from Ukraine, that we must also ensure legal security for those who help. And it's really important. During the debate at the committee meeting, when we asked specific questions, I came to the conclusion that we Polish citizens cannot reject any help. That is why the amendments that I have made and which I will hand over to your marshal are primarily intended to clarify the rules and ensure the safety of citizens, including, above all, medical workers, so that their work is absolutely safe. So they don't have the back of their heads of audit, of accounts, of financial issues or of some unknown issues about which at the moment At least that is the result of talks with health professionals, with directors They can't answer that. The records that have appeared in this Act on health benefits and health problems, which are evident in this situation, do not resolve many issues, are very enigmatic. They don't help employees. The workers must feel safe. An example? As an example, I will give you the question of the settlement of medicines reimbursed. You must know that during these two weeks doctors have received patients, patients from Ukraine without any legal guidance. They accepted because they thought it was right, because that's what health workers do. But it was neither on the basis of the settlement of persons with a given PESEL number, as it would be only after the implementation of the law, nor anybody asked about financial issues. They just did it with a heartbeat. But we need to know it's gonna take time. Therefore, the issue of settlement must be clear and precise. If today hospital directors after reading this law say that they will still not know how to settle the lump sum, that is to say, it is not a law friendly to health workers. That's another line. We are aware that children, like children, are sick and sick. It's their law. Prevention is therefore an extremely important element. I was surprised to note that compulsory vaccinations, which are in force in our country and to which people coming from Ukraine should also be subjected, are no longer implemented at the moment. After all, these children will soon go to kindergartens or schools and they should already be protected through this prevention. Minister, I don't do any politics here. I've been talking to a lot of doctors over the last two weeks, including family doctors, who show you what kind of problems they're gonna face. So as long as we can and if we can help them in any way, let's help. And please accept in good faith all our amendments. Because even if the Minister says there's something you don't need right now, it doesn't seem like it's gonna be necessary in a week or two. Why are we going to debate and meet again here, since we can already do this type of record that gives us the chance that if we have to do something, it will already be clarified? For example, why do we reject the will of those medicinal entities who do not have a contract with the National Health Fund? After all, there are people prepared, there are people responsible, there are people who want to help. And just because they don't have a contract with the National Health Fund, they can't give benefits? Don't you really think that these people, if they want to, should also be in this system? Now, a very important question for me, a question of health inspection. To me, a health inspection is the first line of the front. These are people who should not only create epidemiology-sanitary points at the border, but even do in some of the witnessing of volunteers or people who are unable to cope with difficult problems at the border. After all, we know that even a good conversation, gathering some basic epidemiology news can sort things out later. And that's why commitment and the number of points where health inspection should be visible should really be on the front line and take advantage of this knowledge and experience that has resulted, for example, from the epidemic... Now it's really not visible to me. I believe that such points at the border should be organised by a health inspection. I asked you, Minister, you told me you did. No, it's not. I checked. Only 3 places are organized by sanitary inspection of epidemiology and hygiene points. Why isn't it in the other ways? After all, it is really raised in good faith, not only for the benefit of those citizens who cross the border, but also for the benefit of our volunteers and all those involved, so as to make the spread of all kinds of unnecessary phenomena, infections, etc., etc. as little as possible. And that's what we're gonna be dealing with, and it's not unusual. We know it is. We do not raise this as something extraordinary, but we know that it is good to organize this issue, from the border to the next steps, through controls, supervision, epidemic interviews, etc. And that's what a health inspection is for. There are also many questions, doubts about the use of these doctors, nurses, professionals who want to help and cannot, for various reasons, e.g. because they don't speak Polish. But they can communicate with their countrymen, Ukrainians, and they can speak with them in their own language. And we should make it available to them, help them in this, organize it, because the amount of advice, the amount of health benefits that are and will be given, unfortunately, will be constantly increasing. Remember, our society has suffered for two years of the epidemic, and it also requires a greater amount of care, so to speak. Please do not reject any assistance and accept the amendments tabled in good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. Are you the senator? Remotely? There's no... Then please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając. It's remote, isn't it? Senator Joseph the Hare. Do we have a call? Mr. Senator, I would very much like you to turn on the microphone. We can't hear you. Senator Joseph the Hare. We're waiting. Is there a connection to the senator or not? [[Okay, I hear...]] Oh, there's the senator. We hear you. [[I'm here.]] We can't see, but we can hear. But it's okay now. There you go, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator... We still can't hear, again. [[Can you hear it now?]] I can hear you now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u188	Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to address only certain issues relating to higher education. One such issue is the possibility for students to apply for social grants. The Act limits it only to persons whose stay on the territory of the Republic of Poland is recognised as legal under Article. 2 (2) 1. The same rules apply to... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...an acceptable number of patrons. However, it should be borne in mind that in addition to those who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland after 24 February 2022, a significant number of foreigners studying at Polish universities are Ukrainian citizens who, in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that country, are in a similar situation as those who arrived only after 24 February 2022. Unfortunately, I now meet in my work, outside, in the corridors, students whose families have remained on the other side of the border or are trying to cross it. Thus, the situation of these students has changed dramatically. The proposed rules create the division of Ukrainian students into the better and worse ones, in the sense that, so to speak, the category of financial supply. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens studying in Poland should also be covered by the possibility of obtaining similar assistance as students who arrived in the territory of the Republic after 24 February 2022. By diversifying Ukrainian students in terms of the date of crossing the border, we can lead to a situation that can very easily become a conflict situation. I mentioned this in my previous speech, and I would like to feel this because the answer I received did not please me. And I stand by my view that this diversity will cause problems. We don't have a lot of college students like that. There's 80-90 of them. But there's already been the first signs that diversity is causing the first conflicts. That's why I would very much ask that this case be taken into account. Thank you very much... I would also like to add that 3 amendments have been tabled separately by me in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of order, I inform you that Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Aleksander Szwed, Ewa Matecka, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Janusz Pęcherz and Halina Bieda presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted in writing by the senators: Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Halina Bieda, Józef Zając, Beata Małecka-Libera, Marek Borowski, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Zygmunt Frankiewicz separately, Magdalena Kochan, Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, Artur Dunin, Marek Martynowski, Alicja Chybicka and Marek Plura. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. And does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Health Commission to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. Before ordering a break, please listen to the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u190	The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the Thirty-eighth Senate meeting to the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory will take place on 11 March at 10.00 in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-10-senat-38-2.u191	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess by 12:30 tomorrow. I would like to inform you that the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:30. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 12]]
