ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u1	Please take your seats. I shall resume the session of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that the senators were appointed for the meeting: Rafał Ambrozik, Viktor Durlak, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you traditionally that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Today, this is particularly important because some of the senators are stuck on trains. They reach Warsaw, but with considerable delays. Your senators in the Senate building, please check that all of you have turned off your application for remote participation in the sitting. And your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Senator Boris-Damięcka and Senator Świlski... Oh, Senator Ślski has already voted. Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting, although it is clear that this number is increasing. High Izbo, the proposal to complete the agenda after the resumption of the Thirty-eighth meeting was put on the benches. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Homeland Defense Act and consider it as item 17 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Homeland Defense Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 666 and the committee's report in print No 666 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! Ladies and gentlemen, officers of the Polish Army! Civil Associates of the Minister of National Defence! There are moments in the lives of nations and in man's life when unity of action and thinking is a priority. The circumstances in which the Homeland Defense Act is being processed are certainly special for our homeland, for our citizens, especially for all those who want to serve their country, wearing the uniform of a Polish Army soldier or other uniformed services. But I'm sure it's a moment too. And I think it should be given with full respect when we should remember the heroism and heroism of our neighbours, Ukrainians, who in the name of the free world to the last drop of blood defends the values, freedom and independence of their country, their homeland, giving us all an example of how to stand up for what is most expensive, towards an aggressor. Mr Marshal, I would like to present this report with great satisfaction after yesterday's meeting of the Senate Committee on National Defence, where we debated this project. I can say that I am built up by the attitude of all the political environments that have taken a stand and have spoken in this debate. We are all aware that a document, especially such a comprehensive document as the Homeland Defense Act, a document of code character, will make 14 laws Even from such a distant past as 1967, because from this year there is a law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. This document, which consists of almost 500 pages and 800 articles, is imperfect in many respects, but the need for joint action, the need for rapid entry into force of this law has mobilized us all to adopt this document as soon as possible. I know that Mr Marshal has had a conversation with the President on this matter, but I would like to confirm that, during yesterday's debate, a proposal has been made by all political communities to adopt this law without amendment. This is the proposal that Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski made on behalf of the Parliamentary Coalition Club, such a request was made by Mr Marek Martynowski on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, and this was also the request made by the senator, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski on behalf of independent senators. I state that yesterday's debate took place with full concern for the security of Poland and Poles and taking into account the need for further action related to the legislative improvement of this law in the future. Here I would like to express my appreciation for the legislators who have prepared an opinion and have come to the pace of work on this law with understanding. Mr. Marshal, the Senate Committee on National Defence recommends that the bill be adopted without amendment. Ten senators voted in favour of the proposal, no one opposed it, one senator abstained. There was, of course, a debate at the committee meeting. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz presented the main principles of the law, which are based, you can say, on 3 pillars. The first is to increase the number of the Polish Army to 300,000 soldiers, including 50,000 soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, which have developed so dynamicly over the past years and confirm their service with good, best models of service of the Polish Army soldier towards their homeland. I do not want to diminish the role of operational troops that have passed the exam in particular in recent months at the Polish-Belarusian border, as well as undertaking numerous exercises and activities with our allies in many tasks. The second pillar is the intensive modernisation of Polish Armed Forces, using the Polish defence industry, as well as purchases that are carried out from external companies. And it's been done for several years. I will only mention the purchase of modern, state-of-the-art Abrams tanks, HIMARS systems, Patriots or so effective in the operation of Bayraktars or Polish Lightnings. The third pillar of this law, which changes, crystallises the legal order around Polish security, is, of course, the issue of increased financial resources. And here's the plan to make next year 3% gross domestic product was intended for Polish security, Polish Armed Forces. But it is also planned to introduce a mechanism that will allow us to look for more opportunities to raise funds through the creation of a special Armed Forces Support Fund, the operator of which would be Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The law itself, according to the information submitted by the Minister, also gives, in addition to the increase in numbers, the possibility of motivating soldiers, especially those who have spent more than 25 years in the service, additional funds of PLN 1 thousand 500, and in the case of those who have spent over 28 years in the service of PLN 2 000 500. The Act introduces voluntary primary military service. A voluntary basic military service would start with the initial phase of the basic course, which lasts a month, and then would be 11 months of specialized training, courses which would give completion the opportunity to join the professional military service. The Act also talks about introducing passive reserve services and active reserve services. The passive one is the one that allows for the status of reservists who at that time do not want to or do not need to join the ranks of military reserve service. Those reservists who are active will have the opportunity to be created. The Act also introduces the possibility of improving recruitment. The whole of this document, as I have pointed out, is more than 800 articles that consolidate legislation around external security, around what the Homeland of Armed Forces is doing. In its legal opinion, which is known to the senators, the Legislative Office has submitted its conclusions. I would like to add, for the record, that it has been tabled, although it has not been voted out, the amendment by Senator Czerwiński in an extremely important case for the security of the case. This is a matter of reorganising civil protection, which requires such action. In response by Minister Skurkiewicz, the senators were informed that work was carried out in this area at the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Such a document will soon be submitted. Of course, during the debate there were questions, such as the question of Senator Czudowska, about when the work on this document began. The Minister informed that such work had been started in February 2020 in the Ministry itself, and the bill appeared in autumn 2021. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it is my honor to recommend, on behalf of the defense committee, the adoption of the bill without amendment, as I ask your senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u3	Thank you very much, senator. Please stay, because the senators can now report from a place that lasts no more than a minute. We're going to keep it that way. Inquiries to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? First Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u4	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'd like to ask... Those who watch us, listen, may have some doubt. There were comments to the bill from the Legislative Bureau. But has the Legislative Bureau expressed its opinion that the necessary amendments could be introduced in the future without prejudice to the substance of the law, and today the Senate could adopt it in the proposed form, using the shorter legislative procedure? Without amendment, Parliament's work will, of course, end faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u5	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's what it was, that's what the discussion was. I will also say more: the legislators have had many proposals, proposals for amendments of a substantive, editorial nature, but from discussions in the rounds I've been having these conversations. I know that such amendments were from the Ministry itself and from the political environment of the Civic Coalition and from the Law and Justice environment as well as from the environment representing the senator. Nevertheless, we all stood at the height of the task so that this law could be implemented as quickly as possible. And once again, according to the information I know, this was also the subject of a discussion with the President's Marshal of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u6	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Mr Marshal, thank you very much. I'm dropping the question because...]] I can't hear you. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor:... Senator Rapporteur...]] Oh, that's a little better now. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor:... raised the subject of civil defense...Hello, hello?]] I can hear you. You can hear, but there's a slow connection... Maybe turn off the camera. It's gonna be all voice. [[Voice from the room: You can't hear...]] Well, unfortunately, we'll let the senator go later... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Good. Thank you.]] Next. [[Voice from the room: But now you can hear well.]] Yeah, that's what I heard. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator... Oh, you can hear me. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: Mr Marshal, thank you for the opportunity to ask a question, because the Senator rapporteur has already spoken about civil defence, and that is what has been happening to me. I'm dropping the question. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I, of course, agree to the proposal to adopt this law without amendments. We know what the situation is. And even in the interest of such a discussion on the possible future work on this area, I have a question for the article. 2 point 2, in which the time of war is limited only to the time of war carried out in the territory of Poland. It is therefore unclear whether wartime is also a time of martial law. What if, as a result of alliance commitments or operational developments, military activities are carried out outside Poland? There's a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u8	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u9	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This was not the subject of debate during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u10	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, I have a question about whether during the debate there were questions to the Minister about securing the means of transport that will be used for the transport of medicines. These are special means of transport under the supervision of the chief pharmaceutical inspector. On the list that appeared... As far as the obligation to benefits in kind is concerned, it's not on the list. And I would like to ask whether you have talked about this and whether it is possible for the Minister of Health to ensure that the medicines produced can be transported by means of transport, which are both technically and thermally specific. So these are really specialized cars. And will there be security for these cars to transport and transport drugs?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u12	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u13	Mr. Marshal! Senator, there was not such a detailed question raised during the debate. But I would like to inform you that, as well as other environments... A representative of the Polish Association of Pharmaceutical Industry Employers participated in the debate remotely. National Medicines Producers. But I think this is a specific question for the Minister, so please ask the Minister such a question. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: And the Minister did not answer such a question at the committee meeting?]] That wasn't the question. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u14	Let us hope that he will respond now in plenary. Senator Alicia Chybicka is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you, was there a talk at the committee's meeting about medical care for soldiers, about the military? What's she supposed to look like? I'm the last year the army had on the field. This whole medical doctrine thing... Is that the old one? Was there even a speech about it? If not, I'll ask the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u16	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u17	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I will answer: there was no such question, although the issues of medical matters, medical field of combat or military medicine were discussed by the committee at a meeting on another substantive subject. But during this committee meeting on this bill, this issue was not raised and there was no such debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u18	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there is such concern about the operation of military replenishment commands and voivodship military staffs, as well as military psychological labs. These institutions mentioned by me are to be liquidated, and they are to be replaced by the so-called ones. recruitment centres. Thus, the mobilisation tasks that these institutions are engaged in will remain, whatever they may say, put to a great test. And I don't think it can be that, at such a difficult time, with such a serious existence, Mr. Senator, threats are being eliminated, whether institutions and people who are engaged in mobilization and supplementing personal states are changing. They are generally very experienced people. And my second question. I've always been very interested as an entrepreneur. I believe there is a very serious deficit in terms of changes to the offset bill. [[Timer signal]] Unfortunately, she wasn't noticed in the bill... [[Timer signal]] And building skills... [[Timer signal]] ...industry and building a strong industry is today, anything to say, in the interests of the state. We know it's very necessary. And that's why I think it requires urgent changes to the offset bill. Was that a discussion, Mr Senator, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u20	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There was a discussion about the first one about recruitment. I can say that Minister Mariusz Błaszczak listened to the senator's voice and the question... Well, liquidation is not the right term. But recruitment of the Polish Armed Forces requires a great deal of reform, which is why there is a provision in the Act concerning the creation of recruitment centers, but nevertheless this issue has been postponed in time. But at this point I would like to express my great appreciation for General Arthur Dębczak, the Director of the Office for the Programme, becoming a soldier of the Republic of Poland, who systematically introduces incentives and improvements in the consolidation with the Minister of National Defence. In general, the information presented by your Minister for National Defence shows that there is such a challenge or a task that within two days the recruit can go through the entire recruitment process. On the issue of the second, extremely important and important issue for the development of the Polish defence industry, I will say that the competences held by the Polish defence industry, both those of the state focused in the Polish Armed Group and the private one, are definitely expanding. This shows that in recent years about 60% of purchases or expenditure on modernisation purposes of the army is from the Polish defence industry, which, for example. in the fire area has huge successes and experiences. What is currently being produced by the Huta Stalowa Wola or in my constituency by metal plants, Mesko, is the world's highest shelf. But it's a matter of extraordinary importance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u22	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there any question at the committee meeting that I'm about to ask... If not, I'll ask the minister. Well, I'm talking about art. 3 (1) (a) 1, which refers to the fact that the obligation of defence does not apply to persons who, in addition to Polish citizenship, have different citizenship and live permanently outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. I have a question: what was the result? Because this is a certain inequality in treatment or whatever Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, briefly: this was not the subject of debate at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u26	Thank you very much. This bill has been filed... Oh, and Senator Pup, at the last moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u27	Mr Senator, Mr President, I have this question: was there something about what is important during the wartime situation in which we are at this moment or what Ukraine is at this moment, namely civil defence? Are there provisions in the Act that speak about, you can say, taking action to protect the civilian population just from threats in the event of a possible war?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u28	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As I mentioned, this law does not cover this scope. Work is being done at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. That is also what Senator Jerzy Czerwiński pointed out in his amendment. I hope that soon this area will be under intense debate, because it is indeed a very important issue. The conclusions we draw from what's going on in Ukraine... Of course, it is with great honor that we refer to the soldiers of the Ukrainian armed forces, Ukrainian territorial defence, but it is worth remembering that the best army in the case of defence of statehood is the nation. And the organisation of civil defence-related activities is extremely important and extremely important. The observation of the debate and the Seym, and in the Senate, shows how I think the essence of this issue is to rebuild morale in the nation. I am built by the attitude of Polish Army soldiers, with whom I meet very often, and their motivation for service, but the transfer of this to our entire nation, the whole society is of extraordinary importance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. At this moment, I welcome our fellow senator, Minister Skurkiewicz. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my privilege to present a law on the defence of my homeland, a law of particular importance, a law of such importance in the situation that we are dealing with today beyond our eastern border. High Senate, when we started working on the Homeland Defense Act, we did not allow Poland to become a front country. We did not allow the possibility that in the 21st century one country would attack its neighbour militaryly, that in the 21st century this war would bring pain and suffering to hundreds of thousands, if not millions of innocent lives. Ladies and gentlemen, these work that we carried out on the bill, as Mr Rusiecki rightly put it, began last February. They were conducted first in the Ministry of National Defence, later within the Security Committee. And I am glad that I am finally here in front of you to present these solutions, this bill. This law replaces in its entirety 14 different legal acts adopted over the years. The oldest laws are laws from the time of deep communism, from the 1960s. Today we are replacing them with this document, this legal act. It is a modern law, a law preparing us for the challenges of the modern world. By making this bill, we also listened to the voice of military environments, but not just military ones. The aim of this law is to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, you should also have some clarification. Our assumptions, which we originally adopted on the Homeland Defense Act, were that defence spending would be 2.5%. gross domestic product only from 2024. Of course, life has verified our position in this regard over the last few weeks, and we are therefore speeding up these efforts. That won't be 2.5%. , but 3% GDP, and not in 2024, but already in 2023, from 1 January. That's the key element. The second element. We assumed that the Act would enter into force on 1 July 2022 and that some of the provisions would apply from next year. Here, too, the situation behind our eastern border has verified our intentions and actions. We want this bill to come in with a 30-day vacathio legis. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the assumptions of this law? I have already mentioned financial issues, but an additional fund, which exceeds 3%, will also be a key element in terms of financial and financial resources spent on defence. gross domestic product, support fund, which will finance modernisation expenditure of the Polish army, the Polish army. These funds will come from different sources, among others. they will be debt securities And it was raining at yesterday's committee meeting. With a full guarantee of the State Treasury. Well, that's particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that those modernization challenges facing the Polish army today, and especially the Ministry of National Defence, must be met properly, in a competent manner, in a way that will ensure the safety of our homeland. Therefore, at the level of Parliamentary work, listening to the opposition's voice, we accepted one of the amendments of the Seym opposition, the amendment of the Civic Platform parliamentary club, so that within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, the Council of Ministers will adopt a timetable or a document which will touch on this particular matter, which is the technical modernisation of the Armed Forces... Sorry, I said 30 days, and that's three months. I am guilty of correcting this. This document will appear within 3 months and will refer to the coming period, i.e. 2023 and 2025. Activities beyond our eastern border have shown how modern armies of the modern world should develop, what areas should be emphasized in terms of technical modernisation. And so we also want to carry out these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, our bill, which is presented today to the High Senate, as President Rusiecki rightly pointed out, has three key grounds. First of all, these are, of course, the financial bases that I mentioned just now. Another thing is personal resources, increasing the size of the Polish army. The Minister for National Defence has repeatedly stressed these amounts concerning numbers. Of course, we in our Homeland Defense Act release these numbers. We are not simply stating whether this is going to be an army of 300 thousand or a army of 250 thousand, because we realise that this is the number that needs to be achieved in a certain, very short time frame. But we give this opportunity, we give this opportunity to develop and serve all those who want to serve their country, who want to serve the Republic, to ensure safety in an appropriate and responsible manner. Ladies and gentlemen, another element is, of course, the issue of modernization and equipment, as I also mentioned. High Senate, this law has come up with a lot of information. It does not do anything that would conflict with this social area for Polish Army soldiers. Thus, financial issues are maintained, issues of remuneration, pay at a sufficiently high level for good service. But we also want to make a lot of changes, as we were just talking about, among other things. It's about military recruitment centers. In fact, they will arise in place of military reinforcement commands and voivodship military staffs, this structure will be slightly differently called and the scope of content will be slightly extended, but only because we want to lead to such a situation that the young man who decides that he wants to serve in the Polish army does not bounce from the wall, from a certain barrier and for a week, two, or maybe even longer to follow from one to the other committee, which was absolutely disheartening. The information that came to us clearly indicated that many young people through such a bureaucratic barrier, officially resigned from the service in the Polish Army. We've set ourselves a very ambitious goal. This is the experience of recent years. The creation of recruitment centers, which were created in different, would seem very strange places, because they were also shopping galleries, they were also various kinds of picnics, because we wanted as many young people as possible to encourage them to serve their homeland. On the basis of these experiences we have presented a very ambitious goal: recruitment to the Polish army, recruitment within these recruitment centres may not take place for more than 48 hours, up to a maximum of 2 days, not within 2 weeks, not within 3 weeks, but within a maximum of 2 days. I am convinced that this is an ambitious challenge, but this is a challenge that we will be able to implement practically from the march. Why? Because in addition to dealing with these official issues, officials will work at least the military psychological studios mentioned here. Military psychological labs will now be part of military recruitment centers. It's not gonna be that the recruit will have to go to another city to have a psychological examination. We want to do in this area, change a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, one more key issue regarding recruitment centers. Namely 1:1 we are moving from the current system the issues of mobilization, because it is not the time and time to change anything about it. Issues concerning mobilization, which today are in the competence of military complement commands, managed by the General Staff, P1 department, remain absolutely unchanged. Let me repeat: this is not the time and time to move anything in this area, anything to change in this area. Also a system of field troops of military administration, in terms of their number... Today there are 86 military subpoenas and as many will remain these branches, recruitment centers. In this respect, we are not making any changes to this law. High Senate, this law also offers many possibilities and introduces very expected changes in terms of the functioning of the Armed Forces itself. Because it is no secret that, when it comes to the Polish army, sometimes the borders and barriers impossible to get through were promotions and transitions from one corps to another corps. We eliminate these glass ceilings, we eliminate those limits which today restrict the development of the Polish army or to this day. It can't be that ambitious people who want to be officers are by their superiors... I don't want to use the wrong word, so I'm gonna say they're not given a way to develop. In this respect, we do a lot to eliminate these glass ceilings. I am convinced that we have done a lot in this case, and we will certainly also manage to do these things in the near future. We maintain the entire incentive system, which today operates in the Polish army, the social area remains unchanged. But we also make a lot of changes. This is, for example, an extension of military service, the possibility of extending military service not until the age of sixty, as it is now, but until the age of sixty-three. Because today it is very often that experienced officers are thrown out of the Polish army by PESEL, because this proverbial PESEL is inexorable. That is why we give this opportunity when it comes to professional soldiers. But also for territorial military soldiers, this age limit is increased from fifty-five to sixty years. This is also a proposal that was adopted at the stage of the Parliament's subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen, the second area is also crucial, apart from these recruitment issues, for the mention that Senator Rabbit asked for. Because this recruitment area is one thing, but also the resources that we can draw from it is an area that is particularly important, important and even strategic. We develop various forms of cooperation with schools and universities. Today, we are successfully implementing a program of military preparation units at a post-basic level or Academic Legion at an academic level. We will also develop these formats and we will maintain these formats. We will also create opportunities, especially with regard to this academic level, the Academic Legion We've already pointed out the mechanisms. In the future, or in the active reserve, or in the Polish army, for example, as a professional soldier or a soldier of territorial military service. And this is a particularly important issue that we can be of interest to the military to those who feel this need, but also to those who may not have the opportunity to serve as professional soldiers. Therefore, these proposals, with which we go to different environments, people, regarding the active reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to encourage many to serve in these different formats, to serve in the Polish army. We also offer the possibility, although today the discussion about the collection is closed, the collection in Poland is suspended and is currently not planned to suspend this collection... We want to create a mechanism of service for all those who wish to conduct annual training in the form of voluntary military service. This is an area that, I am convinced, will concern a very wide range of young people, women and men who might want to try what it's like to be a soldier. After this time of rehearsal, volunteer service, and it will be 28 days of basic training and 11 months of direct advanced military training, well paid, because the salary, the salary of such a volunteer will be at the level of over PLN 4,000 per month, so it will be really decent financial conditions, such a person will be able to decide whether he wants to be a professional soldier or maybe he wants to be a soldier of territorial military service. Or maybe he doesn't want to be a soldier, but he wants to be an official. in the crisis management department of one or the other office. We're gonna give these people this opportunity, because in the records of this bill, it's that these people... I will not say that they will be treated as a priority because the Legislative Office has shown us that under the law everyone is equal, but it will undoubtedly be such a handicap for those who will apply for positions in the public administration, in the state administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this law relates to a number of areas that are in force today and will continue to apply. What we discussed at the Senate Committee on National Defence and the comments of the Legislative Bureau in the vast majority concerned legal solutions that are currently in force. There's nothing we can do about it. But perhaps after the law came into force, and this is the declaration on our part, when the Homeland Defense Act will apply, there will be a time when it will be subject to amendment, because there are a number of demands, a number of proposals worth considering and worth considering. Ladies and gentlemen, now the Polish Army, a large structure, because the professional soldiers of the Polish Army are 112 thousand, and there are also soldiers of territorial military service, giving away much to serve their country. Now we create mechanisms for this service to be characterised by many attributes of modern service in the military, modern service in the army of an ally state, a state which is a key element of the North Atlantic Alliance. We offer opportunities for development, we give opportunities for decent service and decent life, we also give opportunities for promotions for all those who want to pursue themselves in the Polish army. We have a long journey ahead of us, Ladies and gentlemen, a long road ahead not only in the military dimension, but also in technical modernisation, if we are thinking of a strong flank army. I mean the North Atlantic Alliance. But I am convinced that we will succeed, that these actions will succeed, especially since there is a national consensus that these are the solutions that are necessary, necessary for the Polish army, the Polish army to be a strong, compact organization. By the way, I would like to thank all of you very much for your commitment to the Homeland Defense Act. It was really upbuilding, because I had the honour and honor of presenting the bill at the Parliamentary Committee and subcommittee meetings. Those were long hours spent with my associates, and I thank them very much for that. It was a substantive discussion and a substantive discussion without such political consideration, which we politicians very often unnecessarily accompany, ladies and gentlemen. We have been able to introduce many solutions to this law, which were proposed by both the government and the opposition, from different sides. I'm convinced that also working in the Senate, which we had a sample of yesterday at the Senate Committee on National Defence... For this, I would like to thank President Rusiecki and Vice-Presidents of the Senate Committee on National Defence. There was a substantive discussion, a substantive discussion, also on the challenges facing the Polish army today, the Polish army, the modern 21st century army. Once again, thank you very much for all these comments, thank you very much for your cooperation. We're at your disposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Wojciech Necessary came forward first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our longest border, the most vulnerable on the part of Russia, is the sea border. In addition, there are installations to protect us from dependence on Russian energy sources, raw materials, etc. Therefore, I ask the question: will this act improve the size and composition of the Polish fleet? If so, can I ask for a specific answer when the Polish Navy will appear operational and ready to operate submarines? Does this bill provide for us in any way? And what other forms of coast defence will be possible thanks to this law in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u33	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. The Act treats all defence issues comprehensively. Of course, the area that the senator mentioned is particularly important, particularly important. We have really done a lot over the last few years when it comes to defending the Polish coast. For example, if a very modern marine missile unit is something we can boast about, we can be proud. The development of this unit... further development here is absolutely desirable. As far as the modernisation of the Polish fleet is concerned, especially in terms of the "Orka" programme, i.e. submarines, the technical modernisation plan covers this area and it will undoubtedly be implemented. Today we see... I have spoken of this on several occasions at the session of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and the Senate Committee on National Defence. Some things, some delays can't be made up in 1 year, 2 years or even 3 years. This is an area that is undoubtedly important and will be implemented in the coming years. The funds we're going to have today or in a moment are measurablely larger than we expected. I said at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence that the technical modernisation plan, on the basis of which these modernisation challenges are being implemented, is based on a 15-year perspective for the period 2021 and 2035, including 2020. With financial expenditure and these perspectives, 3% GDP gives us certain real financial opportunities, additional real financial opportunities. Remarkable, because as we said at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence, this is additional funding in the perspective of 2035 in the amount plus PLN 305 billion, according to the financial projections of the Ministry of Finance. These are really very large funds and we will spend them in an appropriate and responsible way, including under maritime programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me ask you a short question about finance. We have an army of about 110,000 soldiers, and it costs us about 2.2%. GDP. If we want to reach the level of 250 or 300,000, it's probably going to cost us about 5%. GDP. Could the Minister bring it closer, give us information, can we achieve this and at what rate?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u36	Mr. Marshal, of course the increase in the number of the Polish army must be carried out in a progressive and thought-out manner, because this is not only about the human factor, but also about infrastructure, the weaponry. Therefore, when I answered the questions at the National Defence Committee yesterday, I made it clear that this is the perspective of the coming years when we are going to take these measures. We are also aware that the increasing number of Polish troops is also a financial challenge. Today the Polish army is counting, as I mentioned This is at the end of February, about 112,000 soldiers plus 30,000 territorial military services, so today we can talk about an army of nearly 150 thousand. And now we have a challenge... The idea is that financial resources should be translated first into infrastructure development, because these soldiers will have to serve somewhere, and in the second place, For the purchase of modern equipment, because this is a key thing and this is an essential attribute, which is intended to serve the development of the Polish army, and of course for this human component, in the context of which we create these capabilities and mechanisms, which I have just mentioned and which I have clearly pointed out. We want to create an army that will be a modern army, we want to create an army that will meet the challenges of today's battlefield in different formats. Let me repeat: when it comes to the question of collection, we do not take this into account at the moment, in the time of peace, because we realise that it would certainly not be a well-accepted thing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Klich's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u38	Minister, I have, of course, dozens, if not dozens of different questions and comments to this bill. I'll limit myself to three essentials. The first concerns what is happening at the time of the crisis and at the time of the crisis, and at the time of the Polish Armed Forces command system is essential. In this bill, the General Staff and the Chief of Staff disappears. The powers of both the General Commander and the Operations Commander are clearly described. Maintaining the unity of the command system, as you know perfectly well and I know perfectly well, is absolutely crucial in every army. Therefore, please tell me what is the role of the Chief of Staff and what is the relationship between the Head of General Staff and the commanders, general and operational mentioned by me, in these particular states. That's first of all... [[Timer signal]] [[Mr. Senator, the minute has just passed.]] I'm gonna have to leave in a second, so if I could ask you two more questions in the second minute, I'd be very obliged. [[You're welcome, then. Yeah, I get it. In this extraordinary mode...]] I'm not going to speak again. [[...we'll let the senator do it. There you go.]] Thank you very much. Secondly, Minister, in the article. 15 is referred to the types of Armed Forces, where all are listed according to their order, but the commanders of the types of Armed Forces are the General Commander, the Operational Commander and the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces. Why is the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army listed as a commander of a separate type of Armed Forces, while the commanders of the Land Forces, the Air Force, the Navy, the Special Forces do not play such a role, although they are the core of the operational forces and it would rest on them, so to speak, a fundamental defence effort if they were Don't give me that. Is there a need for these troops to be deployed? And why doesn't the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army be subject to the same kind of command as they do... doesn't have the same rank as the General Commander and the Operational Commander? Thirdly, the Minister said a very important thing, namely that the changes that concern the reorganisation of the recruitment and replenishment system, as well as the system for the development of mobilization of our troops or the liquidation of WSW and WKU, will take place, if I remember correctly the wording, in good time, so that they do not take place at the moment when the threat of our security is the greatest in the past decades. Does this mean that implementing regulations will be issued later in this regard? And if so, when will this reorganization take place, so that it does not occur in time of threat to the security of the state of war in Ukraine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u39	Thank you very much. I made this exception because of the fact that Senator... [[Thank you very much.]] ...is the former Minister of National Defense, and I believe that he had the right to abuse our regulations a little bit. But this is the last time I'm letting this happen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u40	As far as the last question is concerned, I will not present a date or a day date. We maintain this structure and formula in terms of issues of mobilisation, development, what is it, or 1:1. We're not making any changes in this area right now. Of course, the law, which is a very comprehensive document, has 824 articles, requires the preparation of a number of lower-ranking legal acts. We in the Act, in its original form, gave ourselves 36 months to prepare the relevant regulations. I was talking about it yesterday at the committee meeting. Some 160 such acts will need to be issued. Today we're shortening this time, it's going to be 18 months. For a period of 18 months, regulations that operate today in the legislative space will apply. We have already prepared 10 key binding acts that will be adopted first. [[Voice from the room: It will also be...]] Yes, Director Stachurski confirms that information. Those which are crucial for the functioning of the law will be prepared first. Yesterday, a decision was addressed to the in-service arrangements, which imposes a timetable for the implementation of work on lower-rank legal acts, which will be conducted at the Ministry of National Defence in the near future. These are the issues we have, so to speak, well-developed. As far as the Territorial Defence Army or the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army are concerned, why it is exchanged with other commanders, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Art. 15 indicates what types of troops are part of the Armed Forces. I would like to point out that the Territorial Defence Army as a type of military are now directly subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. [[It's gonna stay that way.]] For now, Mr. Minister. For now. We have repeatedly pointed out that until the full operational capacity of the WOT is achieved, he will be subject to the Minister of National Defence. At the moment when the Territorial Defence Forces will fully achieve their operational capabilities, we assume that this will be 2025, they will be transferred to the head of the General Staff. And this is something that is in the concept of the formation and functioning of the Territorial Defence Army. But please also... On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to one point. Today, we also provide for a special function for the Army of Territorial Defence under this Homeland Defense Act, where all actions that the Crisis Management Act imposes on the Polish Army, on the Armed Forces, will be implemented by the Army of Territorial Defence. Not like it's been up until now that the chief of operations was the one responsible for the crisis. It is WOTs who will carry out all these tasks. This is a reflection of the experience of recent years, involvement in the process of dealing with natural disasters, various types of situations related to the pandemic of Coronavirus or the support of refugees today at the border. This is a key issue, the WOT is doing very well in this area. And that's where we're going. We have already introduced one of the amendments, which... and the Senate expressed a positive opinion. We have already introduced to the regional crisis management teams the commanders of the WOT brigades who participate in the meetings of these crisis management teams at the voivodship level. So they are already today, so to speak, embedded in this issue. And the first issue raised: Chief of Staff. I just want to point out that, of course, on the one hand, the chief of staff is, so to speak, part of the structure of the office of the Minister of National Defence. Nothing changes here. On the other hand, the chief of staff is responsible for the management and command system. Let me remind you that we have accepted the so-called. a small SKiD, before us an evaluation and discussion also on the extension of the management and command system in this in-depth version. Of course, the Chief of Staff of the General Staff is, as it is said, the first soldier of the Republic. He has completely different responsibilities in a state of war. Thus, in this respect, We also don't move anything and nothing changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając's question. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u42	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have two questions, but I'll probably reduce them to one, because time is running. Does the procedated law take into account the use of one of the most militarised groups of citizens in Poland, i.e. Hunters? In many hunting circles there have been ideas of creating shooting sections from hunters' volunteers. I would like to point out that through this initiative we can effectively exploit the huge potential of hunters for defence, order-keeping and even the preparation of diversionary activities. This potential is both human and military. The human potential is more than 100,000 trained shooters, and the military is a huge amount of weapons and ammunition in the possession of hunters, as well as excellent night- and thermal equipment or even field vehicles. Hunters often... [[Timer signal]] ...they know their hunting grounds best, including particularly important terrain topography during combat, and may constitute an invaluable reinforcement of our Armed Forces. Every volunteer, as a hunter with a gun permit, is checked in terms of health status, including psychological and psychiatric examinations. She's an unpunished person, and she's being checked by the police, and it's about environmental intelligence... [[Mr. Senator, unfortunately, time is up.]] So we're just talking about trustworthy people with a good reputation... [[One minute...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u43	Mr. Senator, we have a minute to ask questions. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u44	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. The law does not affect the area of militarisation or the incarnation of hunters in any way, as representatives of a certain group, but indeed there is a very rich potential here in terms of universal defence, because this is one we can talk about here. The hunters also have their place here as those who have mobilization assignments. Much of the hunters have mobilization assignments and can be implemented as an active reserve. So there is no doubt about that, but the resolution of this law does not allow the possibility of militarizing hunters.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u45	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. I repeat the question I asked the rapporteur, the question about the possible requisition of means of transport. This question is: are vehicles transporting medicines and blood, means of transport, which are particularly prepared, equipped with adequate security, excluded from this article, where the obligation to provide benefits in kind is described or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Please answer briefly: yes or no?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u48	I answer that question, Senator. They're not off. Why? Because in the first place... We as Armed Forces have our own vehicles that can carry medical devices, also at very low temperatures. Besides, we've been over this when we've successfully transported vaccines to one of the companies, and the desired transport temperature was minus 80 degrees. So we have the right equipment, but today we're also talking about a situation where there's a war going on in our country where we have war hospitals. It's not military, it's war. When this equipment, which is available to the Polish military, is missing, additional equipment will be needed to ensure continuity of supplies, e.g. War hospitals. And that's the only area we're considering. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: May I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u50	But will we provide medicines and blood for our citizens in Poland at the same time?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u51	Mrs. Editor, but... sorry, come back. [[Mrs. Senator...]] Senator, one absolutely doesn't exclude the other. I cannot imagine that there is a war and suddenly someone from the Polish army or from the Ministry of National Defence occupies all such vehicles, which are equipped with pharmaceutical companies. If implemented, only to the extent necessary to meet the needs of the Armed Forces. I'm going to repeat that word again: necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we're going to the last two questions. I think it's against the rules of martial arts that the Senate's heaviest cannons end up doing it at the beginning. Senators Jan Maria Jackowski and Jerzy Czerwiński will ask questions. You're welcome, Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I thank you very much for this declaration by the Minister that you will work on this. Indeed, now it takes time for this bill to be adopted as soon as possible in Parliament and signed by the President. I will return to the two points that I raised in my questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. The first point is to define the state of war. What will happen if, as a result of alliance commitments or operational developments, military operations with the use of Polish troops are carried out outside Poland? And the second issue, concerning the obligation of defence, which in the light of this law concerns Polish citizens, only Polish citizens, while it does not concern those Polish citizens who are permanently outside the country and who also have citizenship of another country. Is there any intention in this regard to detail these proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u54	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u55	The answer in both cases is simple and even prosaic. These are provisions that have been taken from existing legislation. Here, in this respect, we are not making any changes. About the state of war we speak in a situation of war in our country, within the administrative borders of the Republic of Poland. Well, that's what we're talking about today. In Poland the state of war is not announced, even if this war is taking place at our borders, even if our soldiers are engaged in peacekeeping missions or any other activity outside the country. Citizenship is also important because it is known that this applies only to citizens who remain in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It would be difficult to force those who have lived elsewhere for years to do so, are Polonia, for example. in Australia or in the United States, although today the Ukrainian example clearly shows that many Ukrainians from different places of the world come back to defend their homeland. I am convinced that, if necessary, hundreds of thousands, if not millions of our fellow citizens, would come back from different places and corners of the world. In this context, I also have some doubts as to whether this would be possible, for example. in the case of people who have double citizenship today, Polish and Russian. There's a clear answer on the lips that wouldn't be a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have questions about civil protection. How is it in the countries that border with us that we are close? Does civil defense even exist, maybe under a different name, but is there such a formation? How is she subject to it? Does it belong to the army, or to the equivalent of our MON, or to the MMA? That's one thing. And then there's the second line. Until now, civil defense has been, I would call it, enshrined in the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, i.e. in the Act of MON-owska, one can say. Now we're giving it up. Question: What is the cause? At what stage are the work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on civil protection? If you don't have accurate information right now, which is obvious, I'd ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u58	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u59	Mr. Senator, I'm in a hurry to respond. Indeed, you are addressing a very important issue that appeared during work at the level of the Security Committee, but also at the Parliament level, also yesterday. A chapter has been made by the Security Committee's decision. The Homeland Defense Act sets out the principles of operation of this military and peri-military component, and issues concerning civil protection which are excluded, as you rightly pointed out, some of the provisions were in the Act on the universal obligation of defence of the Republic of Poland, will be dealt with by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Let me remind you that today the head of civil defence of the Republic of Poland is the Chief of State Fire Department It's a first. Secondly, these structures in Poland operate on the basis of firefighters. It's just today that we're being put on some kind of conceptual network, which isn't very sharp. Today we are talking about "and this is also seen in the example of Ukraine " about civil defence and about universal defence. It would seem that both are very similar, very similar. We have accepted certain issues concerning universal defence or the assumption of universal defence in the records of the National Security Strategy documents, which we have prepared very intensively and which you have signed with President Andrzej Duda. That's why I'm here. I'm gonna say it again. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration will be responsible for civil protection issues under the decision of the Security Committee, and he will manage it. All comments made during the legislative process were addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. We want this division of competence to be clear, precise and quite clear, so that certain elements of universal defence and civil protection do not overlap, so that they are clearly separated, or territorial defence, which we are also talking about today, because today on the Ukrainian side territorial defence is developing very strongly. I will remind you that this is territorial defence, which is modelled on ours and has been successfully created in cooperation for 2 years and in cooperation with the Polish side and the Territorial Defence Forces. This also shows that this form of defense works very well and is being implemented well. Of course, the Ukrainian side has run out of years to reach a certain level, but the great patriotism of the Ukrainian population clearly shows that this is the area that is particularly valuable and important from a military point of view. On this occasion, I would like to highlight one more point. The competence chapter, which is being carried out and which was also discussed at the level of the Security Committee, is particularly important because there are areas in which, for example, the Ministry of Interior and Administration carried out actions for defence, and under this law the Minister of National Defence will implement them. I'm talking about this first encounter of a young man, an 18-year-old with an army, when he comes to committee. The appointment of these committees was decided by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and now this area of competence goes to the Minister of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there are many important issues that need to be addressed, but there must be an appropriate division of competence. Currently, civil defence as a structure managed by the fire chief, the chief of the State Fire Department, would be difficult to integrate into military structures and therefore a clear chapter has taken place. In the near future... I know that at the level of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, work on the new Civil Defence Act is ending. I am convinced that it will soon be at the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, as well as at Parliament, and we will be able to work on it. Of course, let us be aware that many of these elements are in contact with the military, they will intersect, for example, issues related to the Crisis Management Act, because there is a wide range of competence, not only in terms of state administration and civil defence, but also in the military area. So I'm sure we'll be January in a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u61	If you could ask, because there was a very interesting statement about it, I'd call it universal defense. It doesn't appear formally in the bill. Are there any elements involved in this bill that we are considering, or are you planning any other legal document related to this concept? Because as you can see, what the Minister was talking about has come true in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u62	The issue of universal defence is described in the National Security Strategy, which was adopted in 2020. We as the Ministry of National Defence worked on this document together with the National Security Office, with the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, and especially with the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. This law contains many elements which are components of universal defence or total defence, as anybody prefers, because this nomenclature is used alternately. Without a doubt, we can also consider the area of territorial military service in terms of this universal defence I was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you spoke yesterday at the committee meeting and today also about the number of regulations that will need to be issued, including 10 urgent ones. If this isn't a secret, why don't you give us a closer look at the most urgent regulations that the Ministry will be working on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u66	Mrs Senator, of course I will not simply mention the names of these regulations, and we will therefore give you a written reply right after the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I inform you that the Minister has undertaken to answer in writing Senator Chudowska's question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much to the Minister and to all the participants in the debate. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna start by saying that. Indeed, I have applied for this law without amendments not because this law is so perfect, not because it is flawless, just because it is simply a waste of time. This time is now priceless and responsible opposition in this matter should at least not disturb the government, and if it can, it should support it. It is, of course, difficult to vote against a law that has the word "protecting the Homeland" in its title, because it looks as if they have acted against this initiative. For this reason, we voted in favour and we will vote in the final meeting at the plenary session. I would like to say, by the way, that such a view of this law does not mean uncriticalness, it means dealing with a few important myths. The first myth is connected to the bill itself. I want to stress that the bill itself does nothing. The implementation of this law makes the state safer, but the realization of the good, appropriate, adequate and consistent. The second very important myth that appeared in the Minister's declaration is that a strong army is a large army. This is not sufficient and I will try to prove it. The fourth problem is much more serious. The problem is not only with the bill, but also with the credibility of the authors, and with this credibility is, to put it mildly, different, also with the fact that it is said that as a result of the law itself we will feel, in short, safe. Let me stress again that this is not the case. Now, going to the bill itself, I'm going to talk about the first myth first. I am pleased that the chairman of the committee, and the Minister, is aware of many shortcomings, so to speak. Let me remind you that the challenge is very difficult because it concerns more than 160 implementing acts. Legislating Office of the Senate itself I'd like to thank you gentlemen because that's where you worked mostly. 77 amendments were proposed, 50 amendments were based on material prepared by the Senate Bureau of Analysis. 70 amendments were proposed by various external actors, such as: - Leviathan. I have prepared 28 amendments for this. In short, 250 amendments could use this law, so on the other side there is something that needs to be improved. But I would like to stress one thing so that there is no doubt: no amendment, which is not included in this law today, does not devastate a particular reality and does not lead to a situation that would be dangerous for the implementation of this law. For this reason, I stress once again: the proposal to adopt this law without amendments. The amendment will simply mean no loss. The second myth is that only the army decides about safety. This can be presumed on the basis, above all, of the debate held in the Sejm, but also on the basis of numerous external declarations. I want to make it clear that this is a more complex problem, that the size and strength of the army is crucial, but many other factors must be taken into account in order for the state to be strong, safe, efficient when it comes to specific responses. It consists of many elements that depend on us, and some elements that do not depend on us, such as. geographical location. It must be borne in mind that a strong country is a country which respects scientists and spends huge money on research. It is a country in which the economy is naturally developing, and those who are engaged in economic activity have the confidence to carry out this business activity in the area of a specific legal framework. This is also respect for the various agreements, above all respect for those key partners, namely NATO, which is the European Union. The real-life diplomatic services are essential for the state to act smoothly and to feel secure also as a result of not only the declarations but also the real determination to support us. We have just received information that the British soldiers will also reach us, which is now rather the result of assessing the state of danger and the seriousness of the situation, rather than all the efforts made earlier. I would like to stress that a strong country is also affected by efficient justice and diverse, reliable media, i.e. real information that reaches citizens on the basis of which they can respond adequately. There's a big problem with that, as we all know. It is also a strong NGO and respect for civil society. It is clear who today the main burden of receiving Ukrainian citizens rested on volunteers, local governments, individual organizations. This is extremely important. Third thing: PiS and defense. I want to focus a little bit on this, although it is a rather sad issue, but I have to say about it to define exactly where we are, and in a sense also to thank for the fact that there has been a change here. Where did the rule of law and justice start this year? I'll remind you that it was December 2015 and it started with a break-in, one with a crowbar and a pick. The message that was given right after the break-in: we freed the center from the occupation. I remember exactly what the break-in was about. It was about the NATO Counterintelligence Experiment Center. That's where the break-in took place. This is because respect for NATO and the European Union must be consistent, stable and stable. He can't be like that from wall to wall, from case to case, from incident to incident. I regret to note that on the one hand we have the correct definitions of our situation, e.g. the need for energy independence, but on the other hand a lot, I stress, many decisions over the last 7 years have contradicted the fact that this must, in short, be consistently reached. I would like to remind you here that the blocking of the possibility of implementing wind power plants in 2015 was for at least 3 years, with consequences to this day. Weapons. That's what we talk about very often. I thank the Minister for stressing that we will do our best to try etc., etc. But it's been seven years. I recall this 2015 and how then Minister Antoni Macierewicz à about the question about the Patriots at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence in the Sejm said: this contract does not exist. A year later, he said, "They'll be here soon." Yeah, a year later, the answer was, they're coming. Are they here yet? Please bear in mind that time here is crucial, extremely important, to properly assess our situation. I also want to thank you very much on this occasion. Thomas Semoniak. He's not here today. In the Seym he has little opportunity to boast of his various achievements, and these achievements by Tomasz Semoniak are praised by the present Minister of National Defence, as if they were his achievements and are not. It is worth thanking Tomasz Semoniak for various things, e.g. for the purchase of 108 Leopards and their modernisation, for the Grom anti-aircraft missiles in which negotiations began in 2013, for Crabs and Rak mortars, rescued by Tomasz Semoniak by purchasing chassis, as I recall, from South Korea and this project stood for quite a long time. But also before... We know we're using the Rosomacs, but look when they showed up. In 2005, as I recall. Light caterpillar vehicles from 2010. Hard tank from 2007 As I recall, for the first two years it was only for export to Malaysia, but then it was also for our needs. The first model, as I recall, appeared in August 2015, i.e. at the end of the PO-PSL government. The Israeli reconnaissance drone, which we started very early, probably in 2006 or 2007, but a very important element that emerged. Drones of Boeing 2010 as I recall. The Daglesia wheel bridges for heavy vehicles were already ready in 2015. There were training planes, as I recall, 8, also behind Tomasz Semoniak. Plus, maneuvering missiles to the F-16. I have seen many press conferences of the current minister and I must say that that work by Tomasz Semoniak is shown as if it were the present work. If the Caracala case were to be realized, the Tomasz Semoniak initiative would also be in a different situation. I'm running out of time, so the other two very important issues, the two important myths I want to deal with, I'm gonna save for the last five minutes. But I will say that today, giving great credit to the government, we very much expect that these gigantic funds, which are in this law and under which we sign, will be issued much better, much more consistently than in the last seven years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u69	Thank you kindly, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We adopt the Homeland Defense Act at an extraordinary time, at a time when Ukraine is fighting for its independence, and our whole part of Europe is in a state of danger. So I too, as everyone here, will vote in favour of this law without amendment. It's an expression of seriousness. But a serious discussion about the state strategy is also an expression of seriousness, because we are adopting a legal framework that is important from the point of view of security policy, defence policy. Two issues, two pillars of this policy, are to strengthen our own potential and integrate with the West. Two equivalent, important pillars of this policy. What does strengthening your own potential mean? Of course, modernization of the army. But this requires seriousness, consequences and, in truth, the fundamental rejection of political practice so far, the practice of governance. Because we had very long, endless tendering procedures in cases, let's call it important, but medium quality, some not completed at all, and we had very important purchases made in an emergency, without informing the opposition, without conducting a public debate. This is not happening in a healthy country, one that focuses on consolidating public opinion, on consolidating the national community. Therefore, I hope that the adoption of this law opens up a new practice, a new serious practice of modernising the Polish army, a responsible practice, consisting in taking strategic decisions with the inclusion of all political forces and maximum expertise or expert communities. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski rightly pointed out that strengthening the state is not limited to purely forceful aspects. Because a strong state is a lesson. Overcoming authoritarianism is a flexible state, that is, a country that trusts the social partners, trusts local government, draws knowledge from the experience of experts, and finally it is a state with an authentic, independent and effective justice system. This latter issue is also connected with the integration of Poland with the West, with the need to abolish the dispute about the rule of law. Indeed, it is impossible to fight authoritarianism, authoritarian imperialism, not as a model of constitutional democracy. Russia is authoritarianism, imperialism of an authoritarian nature. The association of the West will unite around important values, also important for the Polish constitutional tradition, which is the independence of the judiciary. And finally what I would call essential recommendations. We need an agreement over a division, but it has to have a specific expression. The National Security Council should work cyclically and with key leaders of the parliamentary opposition. This is a good Western European pattern. I know that Minister Siemoniak has tabled amendments in Parliament on behalf of the Civic Coalition You agreed to some of these amendments. • increasing control on the part of the defence committee over expenditure and on major investments in the field of defence policy. And this should also be a practice involving expert environments. Finally, the last thing to be said is very clear: the rulers have the right to use national rhetoric or patriotic rhetoric, but not over measure, not instead of building real potential. We have very sad experiences from the late 1930s, from the last few years before the outbreak of World War II, when the power used ultranational rhetoric, and then it all fell apart. Then it all fell apart. Please take a look at the diaries of people belonging to the independence tradition, in the Polish autumn of Jan Józef Szczepański. It all fell apart after that. Let us not repeat this mistake, let the real national potential follow the patriotic rhetoric. Poland needs a good security policy, strengthening its own potential, not promoting power on the occasion of a war threat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! Officers! The government bill on the defence of the homeland is extremely extensive. The rules themselves, without justification, are 447 pages. In view of the complexity of the regulated matter, it would undoubtedly require more consultation, discussion and debate under normal conditions, because 20 other laws are being amended on this occasion. However, the situation is special. This law was announced before the war broke out in Ukraine, so it is not so that now, but as a result of government work, it has necessarily entered into the situation that we have today. And that is why I, of course, agree to the proposal to adopt a law without amendments, but this does not change the fact that this law It's also necessary to consider... Because we're dealing with an old system and rewrite some solutions. I asked about citizenship issues, about the definition of war, about what happened to armies outside the borders. The Minister has admitted that this is prescribed in the current regulations. But we do know that today's battlefield... Actually, we're living in a time of redefinition of war. What does war mean? Is today's failure on the railroad a fragment of some undefined to the end of the action or not? Is this a direct military threat or not? So we see that we are living in the moment of some redefining. And, of course, the modern law requires not only modern legal tools, but also the adaptation of war doctrine, all regulations and planning documents. And in this respect, I believe that this reflection is still needed in order for us to create modernised, efficient, strong armed forces for the 21st century. And this bill is a step on this road, but it doesn't close the subject. There is also the question of updating the current strategy for the development of the security system. Remains Okay, here's the The question is that we are at the border and NATO, and the European Union, and that at a time when many of our military doctrines were created or mentally constructed, we were neither in the European Union nor in the North Atlantic Pact. This is another case. Another case I'd like to draw your attention to. In my opinion, there is no regulation regarding the position of commander-in-chief in the project. There's no telling who the president's going to appoint for this position. It is clear that it should be the head of the General Staff, but it is not regulated by law, so the President can appoint any person, including a public person, to this position. Finally, the question of Art. 24 and 25. These articles require serious reflection. According to these articles, in their current form, the President of the Republic of Poland directs the defence of the state, having the government as an executive body. However, according to the Constitution, the government is responsible for the security of the state. 146 - who is responsible to the Sejm for carrying out his duties. The proposed law provides that the President shall direct the defence of the State in cooperation with the Council of Ministers. This means that the President is to be able to make decisions, i.e. sovereign powers, at least on an equal footing with the Council of Ministers, for which there is no constitutional authority. It should be noted that all the powers of the President are enumeratively included in the article. 134 constitutions, and there are no such ones as would allow him to direct the State's defence. The State's defence is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, which, of course, should cooperate with the President, especially during the war, but it cannot be that the President has the right to impose his opinion on the government or to block government decisions. A very serious debate in this area should therefore be considered. I know now is not the time for such a debate, but this is the legal framework resulting from the Constitution. Also debatable is the Armed Forces Support Fund formula, whose expenditure will be carried out outside Parliament's control. I am now signaling this thread, there will be no amendments in this area, but this will certainly raise wide-ranging discussions. The settlements with the fund will be run by the Minister of National Defence and he will accept expenses. It is extremely risky to leave the decision of the Minister of Defence to spend billions. There is a need for a system of communion of decisions in this area. I don't want to prejudice, the experts are the ones who are the best model in this area. And here's the case that Senator Czerwiński was discussing, i.e. civil protection case. I think that the modern field of combat and experience in Ukraine shows clearly that the key to this type of action that is currently in Ukraine is civil defence, citizens' awareness, citizens' skills and the preparation of citizens to respond in times of crisis, and to the various kinds of threats that can lie, for example. the lack of water supply, which will result from the hacking of the energy system, because then the pumps will not work and the blocks will not have water. It's such a prosaic thing, but that's what it looks like. Well, there may be situations of this kind that don't necessarily mean direct military action at once. From this point of view, the issue of civil protection, procedures in this area, rules of operation and training of citizens, the preparation of citizens for this eventuality is of particular importance. As I understand it, in this bill, as Minister Skurkiewicz mentioned, there are no such issues. However, these issues in the event of war, military or hybrid war are particularly important for the survival of the social substance, and are particularly important for the physical survival of the substance. In this respect, I would expect the government to present very quickly appropriate solutions to Parliament and work on them dynamically so that we can bring our defence system, our security system, to the standards required by the current situation in Europe as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the next senator. That's Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We're about to vote on the Homeland Defense Act. The process of law is carried out in the shadow of war in Ukraine, and in fact in the shadow of war which Russia has declared throughout Europe, a war in which Poland is not only a sympathetic observer with Ukraine, but also with almost all members of the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union is a supporting country of Ukraine. The war showed what everyone seems to know, but after decades of greater or less prosperity and living in peace they lost from the perspective of threats. The war has shown that peace is not given once and for all, and that he and democracy are increasingly losing to authoritarian, dictatorial rulers, but effectively using all media, PR, social and political instruments to promote their possessive goals. I will remind you that many years ago, 100 years ago, Hitler published his "Mein Kampf" in which he announced the fight for the space of life in the East for the Aryan race of lords and the removal of the lower races, mostly Jews and Slavs from this space. He did it 12 years before the war. So the world knew exactly what Hitler was up to, and he didn't do anything about it, which had a known effect. Russia also showed the world the face of an aggressor eight years ago. It took part of Ukraine, and the world didn't react the way it should. That is why today, taught by historical experiences, when people are killed daily in the war in Ukraine, and cities and villages being ruined, we need to respond to help Ukraine, but also to defend peace for Poland, for Poles and for Europe. According to the ancient rule that if you want peace, get ready for war, with the Senate's probably full support, we will adopt the Homeland Defense Act today. But this support cannot only be a unilateral act, it cannot be regarded as an unconditional agreement to entrust the great task of increasing the defence capabilities of Poland to only one group, connected with the current governing coalition. If this is really to be a national and historical challenge, then a historical act is also needed to address the rulers of all interested communities. It is necessary to implement the Homeland Defense Act so that no one has any doubt that it is only about the Homeland. For this to happen, certain conditions must be met. I'll give you the most important part. I'm counting on the government to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of generals who have left the army in recent years because they couldn't find their place in it. About 50 of them are gone. Many of them have war experiences in Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq. This experience cannot be underestimated. Many of them trained in command and cooperation with NATO troops. That knowledge can't go back to the chasm. We need it no less than a modern weapon. Besides, the war in Ukraine should have taught us something by now. We know that Putin was surrounded by flatterers, that he hated criticism, and that's probably why he heard what he wanted to hear, which means that within two days you can get Kiev. Let's not make that mistake. Let us listen to generals who ask difficult questions or see problems we will face. I also hope that the government will not avoid providing Members and Senators with information, but also a substantive discussion about how the Homeland Defense Act is implemented, what costs we bear in this respect, what difficulties we face. At the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, I obtained assurances that the senators, members of this committee, will be informed of the programmes being implemented, if necessary, in a secret manner. For me, this declaration by the Deputy Minister of National Defence and at the same time Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz is very important. I hope it will be implemented. I also hope that financial policy on this huge project will be transparent. This project will cost at least 80 billion PLN. Unfortunately, we must count on the good will of the government, because the appointed Armed Forces Support Fund is to operate at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and will not be formally subject to parliamentary control. This situation raises legitimate concerns and will be a great exam with the responsibility of the government to Poles, but also with the elected parliamentarians. I hope that the government will be open to the voices of different backgrounds. Already today we have dozens of comments about this law, in an overwhelming majority indicating the will to improve it, to improve it. It is worth listening to these voices, for there is such a thing as collective wisdom, which we cannot waste. Today, the Prime Minister and the President rightly call for solidarity with Ukraine and a common European policy, excluding Russia from the family of democratic countries and respecting common principles. These are wise appeals, but Russia is not the only challenge we will be able to face effectively only if we are in a large international community. The next challenges are already called: Chinese expansionism, climate change, the fight against pandemics, terrorism, cyber terrorism. These are threats that we must fight not alone, but within the framework of international cooperation, primarily in the European Union's plan. I also look forward to building the future of Poland in the European Community, all the more so as conflicts with the European Union result in the suspension of huge financial resources for Poland, which are particularly important in the context of the war threat. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is said that better is the enemy of good, so today I will vote in favour of this law, although, as I have shown, I have a lot of doubts and comments. I also know that the Senate legislators have shown more than 70 legal doubts. Fortunately, none of them are of such a rank as to definitively reject this law. So we'll have time to correct it. We also know that the law requires adaptation or amendment of about 160 regulations. There is no doubt, therefore. I hope so. That today's vote does not close, but opens work on the legal conditions for strengthening Poland's defence. Thus, in the case of this law and its implementation, a long and difficult road begins. Today we are in a hurry to implement it, but tomorrow, next month and next year we should work on it and implement it in the same atmosphere of national consent as today, of course, in normal mode and in the maximum extended circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[Mr. Marshal, may I have a question?]] You're welcome. On a formal point, I understand? [[About the formal issue. How is the list kept? 'Cause when I signed up, I was supposed to be eight, and I already fell to ten. Thank you.]] Excuse me, it's the senator who keeps the list. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: But she was never... This is the 15th position on the list, Senator, so it's impossible for you to be eight.]] [[But I'm ready, Senator...]] [[No, no, I just wanted to know.]] I'm sorry, I really can't control it. I'm just reading the senators' names. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: The senator will be ninth, I made a mistake about one person. You'll be senator nine, of course.]] [[It's ten o'clock now, but let's...]] [[But, Senator, I can...]] [[No, we're done. Thank you.]] I understand that this case is settled. Sorry about any... It wasn't an intentional malice, I can assure you of that. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u76	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Poland is really helping our Eastern partners who share the same values as us The right to state nations, freedom and civil rights and democracy. We have already accepted almost 2 million refugees, and in the international arena we are a lawyer as hard as possible against beastly aggressors, even banditism. We all want to work on this law in consensus. This is a very good signal, because our sovereignty and our security are not the subjects that should be the subject of the current political dispute. Here long-term reforms are needed, not for today, not for tomorrow, but for decades, not for this or the next term of office, but for the actions of all politicians and all parties. In general, the idea of the government as regards the bill under review is that today's 144,000 soldiers are to be twice as large as the army. Today, 111,000 professional soldiers and 32,000 soldiers serve in the territorial defense forces, and there are to be 250 000 professional soldiers and 50 thousand WOTs. To this end, the Act contains additional financial and social incentives to attract men into the army. The incoming volunteer, because the government, with the lowest degree of rank, is expected to receive about PLN 4,000 gross at the beginning of the speech, confirmed this today by the Minister in his speech. For longer-term servants in the army, and those considering transition to a civilian or retirement will be called. Motivation add-ons, very good idea In the amount of PLN 2,5 thousand. The government also wants to bring specialized students into the army, offering them training within the framework of the so-called. Academic Legion and even scholarships to finance studies that will have to be worked off by a 5-year military service. Bravo. I like that record. Soldiers are to be treated without a queue at the Ministry of Health... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: National Defence.]] Excuse me, Ministry of National Defense. This, unfortunately, caused the opposition of the Minister of Health, who reminded us that in Poland there is equal access to treatment. The Act does not provide for the restoration of universal collection, but provides for mandatory military service. The government will, of course, be able to benefit from these rules in crisis situations. The Act also provides for the creation of a new type of army to combat cybercrime. We know how important this is. This formation will be easier to access, because its main task will be to operate on the Internet. With the doubling of military numbers, the government also wants to increase expenditure on the army and modernise it. And just to remind you, in 2021 the budget was spent on the military 2,2% Polish GDP, i.e. By summing up nearly PLN 52 billion. The government proposes to raise this rate to 2.5% GDP as early as 2024. Given today's economic indicators, this would give 65.5 billion a year. However, during the parliamentary debate on Thursday, 3 March, Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński has already announced that an amendment will be tabled, according to which military expenditure is expected to be 3%. GDP is coming up next year. Budget expenditure will not be the only one. The government wants to finance the army's sale of shares in defence industry companies, and the Minister confirmed it today. But above all, the government wants to create a special Armed Forces Support Fund. The Fund is to operate at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Fund is intended to support the modernisation of the army and is to be powered, among others. Bank bonds may also be issued by BGK and securities, donations, inheritances or funds from the sale of unnecessary military assets. The settlements with the fund will be run by the Minister of National Defence and he will accept expenses. The Act provides for another option to help modernise the army. From several state entities, such as the Industrial Development Agency, the Polish Development Fund or defence companies, the military will be able to lease equipment. The Minister of National Defence will agree to this. That's a smart idea. However, experts criticize the fund's formula, because its expenditure will unfortunately be outside Parliament's control. This was mentioned by my predecessors in their speeches. The government project strengthens the position of the Territorial Defence Army. There will be more of them, and they will continue to be under the command not of the army, but of the Minister of National Defence. WOTs will also be given new powers to coordinate crisis management tasks. Example: If there is a refugee crisis at the border, the WOTs will be responsible for securing the border. The same will be true in the fight against the consequences of disasters. Unfortunately, experts criticize this solution because it is a formation without experience in the management of professional military units that will participate in such actions. It is indicated that the strengthening of the WOT begins to liken them to the Vistula Unit, which used to be under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This unit was treated as internal troops, at the disposal of the government and was dissolved, rightly so, in 2001. The most emotions of military experts are raised by the idea of eliminating current voivodship military staff and 56 military reinforcement commands. They take care of, among others. recruiting for the army. They are to be replaced by the head of the Central Military Recruitment Centre and 16 regional centres. The government argues that this is meant to improve recruitment to the military, but experts note that carrying out such a large reorganisation will cause chaos. There is speculation that in this way the local base and infrastructure occupied by WKU will be able to be transferred to WOT. The draft law also contains general provisions that give rise to the risk of fraud, e.g. Article 2 10 gives military authorities the right to process the data of citizens obtained from data collections carried out by other services, state institutions and public authorities. The military may obtain this data secretly, via Internet links, without the need to submit an application. And finally: what is not in this law is a new approach to offsets, I speak here more as an entrepreneur, rather than a senator, to build the competences of the Polish industry and to transfer technology. We expect urgent action from the government on this matter. You can't treat offset like a free dinner. For offset, the technology must be paid and the Polish government must understand it. And finally: the army should draw young pledges from our magnificent polytechnics, from universities that have wonderful students, who often have ready projects. We can't shop like African countries. Using such horribly large expenses, we should create companies from real events, companies that will produce, if not all the weapons needed, at least part of it, in cooperation. The F-35's arrival alone doesn't do everything. You have to get involved in production, and that's why you need offset. Ask the universities to go to military facilities. This is the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u77	Thank you kindly, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Socialist Party in its 130-year tradition of fighting for free, democratic and independent Poland suffered huge losses. These are real victims. It's not a tradition, it's a real story, from Stefan Okraa to Kazimierz Pużak. As a matter of fact, they both died because of Russia's actions, once white, once red. Many, many other PPS activists died and suffered for Poland. Therefore, PPS has a special right to present a critical vote against this law. This bill is just the beginning of work on improving the country's defence. It contains many generalities, few details, it will probably be improved by this government as well as by many subsequent governments. Orders a lot, eliminates some unnecessary rules, combines the law to save on the plus. Such a law was undoubtedly necessary, because what the Polish army is currently using, the Polish defence, is already obsolete and required a change, so it is good that this law appeared, in addition to the time at which we are now. Surely today's Polish army is too small and too poorly equipped. Should it count 300,000 soldiers? Well, maybe someday, eventually, he can count so much. Today, however, I would call for the development of the army that is needed to go hand in hand with technological development, with weapons, with everything that makes the army effective and can face the current challenges of the battlefield. I will say this to Minister Skurkiewicz: the Minister has escaped a little from answering my question about the Navy. I will quote 90 years ago about ORP Eagle: signing the agreement on 29 January 1936, launching on 15 January 1938, handing over the ship to the Polish Navy on 2 February 1939. In total, it lasted a little over 3 years. ORP Lightning, which we can admire and watch in Gdynia: the invitation to tender on July 1934, the signing of the contract on 9 March 1935, the lifting of the flag on 25 November 1937, and 3 years. This is how Poland reacted to the threat from the west, from Nazi Germany. At that time the leaders, the politicians of that time, the political class at that time stood at the height of the task, the society was making dropouts, we remember what it was like. Yeah, but it was also very efficient. 90 years ago it was possible to change the Polish Navy to a great extent in 3 years. I hope that the money that appears will be spent in a similar way. Then we didn't have and today we don't have shipyards that could build such modern ships, those ships were bought abroad and now we're probably going to buy new units abroad too. But let's do it as soon as possible, let's do it smoothly and buy ships of the same class as then, actually, the best they were made. I'm appealing for the development of the coast defence, because I think it might be crucial. This law, although it can be said that it is powerful and raises a lot of topics, does not solve all the problems associated with the so-called. critical infrastructure. We see it now in Ukraine, we see where the Russians are attacking. Russians attack, among others. Perfidious hospitals destroy hospitals, destroy the possibility of helping people, soldiers, civilians, and thus try to break the spirit of the Ukrainian people. They may have acted similarly in other conflicts, and if further conflicts come, they will also use such methods, as if accidentally or intentionally, under some pretenses. I therefore urge that, in connection with this critical infrastructure, we also think about hospitals. The adoption of this law, which is taking place today, should actually turn upside down and throw out of public circulation the so-called. The hospital restructuring law, since it assumes a reduction in the number of beds, a reduction in the number of hospitals, so-called. optimizing, combining, i.e. reducing the number of units, reducing their potential. According to this law, these entities should be adapted to the economic conditions so that hospitals make money and do not constitute a back-up, e.g. for Polish soldiers fighting for our homeland. There is no Minister of Health here today, there is no Deputy Minister of Health, but I urge you to think about it from this side as well. Because the army itself can do a lot, but without adequate infrastructure, including in this area, there could be a situation in which this defence will be almost impossible to carry out. And that is why I hope that this law is also the beginning of a different look at the state, another look at the needs of the state in different areas, including, for example, in the field of health care, because, in fact, for 30 years in health care, money has ruled and needs should govern, as well as the country's defence needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u80	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we are dealing with the Homeland Defense Act and we are dealing with a special situation in this Chamber. Unique in the sense that all those who listen to us already know that we have declarations from all clubs and senate circles: we want to adopt this law without amendment. Does this mean that this bill is perfect and does not require these amendments? It does, of course. The Legislative Office formulated several dozen of them. But there's something more important. The poet, Władysław Broniewski, wrote about this: "There are accounts of the wrongs in the country, or the foreign hand will not cross them off either. I disagree with the poet. Sometimes there are situations where a stranger's hand cancels out. Today, this bloody hand is Putin's paw, which reaches for independent Ukraine, because this hand can also reach for the independence of Poland. And no one in this room today has a dilemma, whether to work on this bill quickly or slowly. We know she's needed. We know that it is needed because it is enough to go to the Eastern Studies Centre, perhaps one of the best, unless the best analytical facility in Poland dealing with Eastern matters. This centre was established already 30 years ago as a budgetary unit of the public administration and its statutory purpose, the task is to develop and make available to the public authorities of the Polish Republic information about important political, social and economic events and processes in the international environment of Poland, as well as to prepare analyses, expertise and prognostic studies. There are dozens of excellent analysts working at the centre, and as I said, the centre is a unique entity due to public funding. Those who are interested in foreign affairs, when they enter the site today, will read the report published yesterday, which is entitled "Three Weeks of War" Putin's tactical dilemmas, developed by Mark Menkiszak, head of the Russian Team at the Eastern Studies Centre. And in this report, among others. we can read that the extreme scenario in which Russia, in the face of problems with the military settlement of the conflict in Ukraine and in view of the significant increase in Western military assistance to Kiev, can not be completely excluded, will decide to extend the scope of the operation and will launch military attacks (probably rockets) against the objectives of the territories of the neighbouring NATO Member States (first of all Poland; such action on a limited scale is not excluded in the first scenario discussed here). From the scenarios in question. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not read the first page of the tabloid, we do not read the gossip information portal. We read the analysis on the pages of a serious analytical institution. And, of course, we read further that this scenario is still unreal fortunately. I'm joining this opinion. I believe that Poland as a member country NATO is in this unique situation, unlike Ukraine, that our protection is protection resulting also from the Treaty provisions, from Article. 5 and that, if necessary, other Member States of the North Atlantic Pact will be involved in defending Poland's independence. I quoted a part of this analysis in order to make all of us aware of the need to work quickly on this bill. Of course, we will need to return to this project, also leaning on the various comments that the Senate Legislative Office has pointed out. But it cannot be overlooked that the fundamental dilemmas, challenges and pillars have been correctly identified. Yes, in Poland we need to increase the number of our army. Yes, in Poland we must step up the modernisation of our army. Yes, in Poland we need to take care of those who, as a professional military or as a military in the territorial defence forces, or after having received special military training, want to engage in raising the defence concerning all of us. I am also saying this from the position of a man who, at the end of the 1980s, manifested himself in order to eliminate the compulsory military study, and just after this liquidation, as a student, voluntarily passed the training of a civil protection instructor and received the appropriate powers in this regard. Because every country can be put in danger of its security and sovereignty someday. For this reason, for my part, I declare my full support for those main objectives which the Act implements. I also declare my willingness to return to work and work together on those issues which are indicated in the opinion of the Legislative Office, such as comments on the procedures for awarding contracts for the performance of the services ordered by the Minister for National Defence. I declare my willingness to work also as former President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. No one can have any doubt that every zloty, spent either directly from the state budget or through any fund that will support the modernization goals of the Polish army, will be issued properly and in a manner that does not raise any doubts. There are, of course, minor comments. Well, after all, the Polish army must have the same face as any modern army. Today we often forget that 17% military in the Ukrainian army, in the military formations of Ukraine are women. Therefore, it is also necessary to regulate issues which are to be regulated, and which are related to the service of women, dismissals from the service. I would say that we must not forget these issues and, of course, I declare my willingness to work together in this respect too. Ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, as we all see, today one voice flows from the Senate. Security issues are excluded from disputes, differences and political discussions. This has been the case in the past when, above political divisions, we have achieved two fundamental objectives: joining NATO and joining the European Union. The same is true today for this law, when we are pursuing the basic objective that applies to every public officer, and in a special way to those whom I see here today in uniforms. Thank you for this service. And us parliamentarians, who are to provide you with good laws, so that the Polish army is strong, firm and ready, but not in the same sense as in this historical case. I hope that the Polish army will not be put to the test, because what we are doing today, including these legislative and modernisation measures, will carry out, as I am deeply convinced, a deterrent, preventive role and the Polish army will never have to What I wish to you, to myself and above all to Polish citizens Prove your ability and readiness to defend your country in the field. For this to happen, today we must adopt this project as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Mark Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The atmosphere is serious, it's elevated. I'm happy to have this conversation, so I'll start by quoting: A part of the nation must always be under arms, Without her, you'll be chased out of your house by strangers or their own. Who's sarcastic about the army not paying for it? After losing everything in the Homeland, he will lose everything. This is Adam Mickiewicz, our national village. It would seem that it is a universal, timeless thought, but it is not so obvious in recent decades both in Poland and in the civilized Western world. It seemed to many that the times of war had passed away to history forever. It seemed many that war or quasi-war activities would already take place today in a new, modern way. With no military use, no armed assault, with modern technologies, with various hybrid actions, trade and economic wars. And right here in front of us a few weeks ago, all those illusions blew. We are dealing with a war, a bloody war, a war in which civilians are murdered, a war breaking all conventions, international laws, a war that the modern world could not imagine. None of us know how this war will develop, what it will end with. There's one thing we know. Once again, we are living in very unstable, anxious times and we must respond to these threats. And I am pleased as Senator of Law and Justice that the current state leadership has been assessing these threats correctly for many months, for many years. We have repeatedly advocated strengthening the Polish army and modernising it and repeatedly warned against the threat from the east. And this law is just a concrete action that is intended to respond to these threats. But I don't want to talk about technical matters, military matters, because that's what my previous speakers said, the Senator rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and the minister. I want to talk about a matter that should be the concern of all Poles at this moment. Well, at such historical moments, at such historical moments a strong state is needed, strong very comprehensively, economically, also militaryly. But above all, as Ukraine shows, strong spirit, strong ethos. An ethos of love for the country, sacrifice for the country, struggle for independence, fight for sovereignty. All these values are related to the Polish army. Polish army, the Polish army is a carrier of these values. She creates these values, she raises soldiers, she raises the elite, which in such times is extremely important for maintaining the state, its continuity, its sovereignty. Without brave Polish soldiers and everything that is created by them in the vicinity of the Polish army, there will not be what we see in Ukraine today, that is, this spirit of national defence against the invader. I really hope this war is over, that this war will not expand. It will not expand to NATO countries, it will not expand to Baltic countries, to Poland. But today this threat is very real, so we need to strengthen the Polish army, we need to strengthen the Polish society, the Polish state and the Polish nation. This bill is certainly a very important element of such a strengthening and some kind of coup to say, Copenhagen in thinking about the army, about the army, about the state. After all, I have met many times among my friends, among my peers, among people of my generation or close to my generation with attitudes: we would never go into the army in life. It was one of the worst things you could imagine. It's that someone, for example. He's graduating from high school and he has to go to the army. Such a disdainful image of military service was strengthened. Well, these are anti-state actions. And it's coming out today because when there's no war, of course it's all so abstract. But today all of this has come true because the threat from the east is real, extremely brutal, very concrete. So once again, I stress this: you have to react, you have to go ahead of what you see in the east, and you have to set an example. In the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the previous term, I met several times with the resistance of Western countries to increase the military effort to actually develop armies. All ideas relating to some form of military organization or quasi-military organization at the level of the European Union were really constantly crammed at the stage of some concept, some ideas, some plans, and nothing concrete was ever invented there, because there was such a very pacifist, utopian spirit, thinking that war would not be, that war would not threaten us, that peace would be given forever. It's not. We can see it. So let us again appreciate this pro-state thought, such as St. the memory of President Lech Kaczyński After all, in this law is also his political heritage Let us appreciate political realism and realize this realism. Fingers crossed for the Polish army, thumb crossed for the Ministry of National Defence. It is well known that this law of such a code-making nature, very unification, she will still require some legislative procedures, Mr. Minister speaking here, seems to have 180 regulations waiting for us, there will certainly be many different laws... But today the most important thing is for this machine to move on so that this bill can enter into force. That is why, finally, I thank the Senate for such a constructive, pro-state approach to this issue. We argue here many times, many times I repel here avalanche, as I say, total criticism and anti-government actions, but today it does not exist. You often refer to yourself as a democratic majority in the Senate, and so, in connection with this, I will say: a democratic majority with a democratic minority cooperates with a democratic Polish government. I hope it's more frequent! To the glory of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Officers! Dear guests! We are discussing the law and, despite the declaration that it will be accepted, this does not happen without criticisms and accusations against defence policy presented by the Government of Law and Justice. But maybe I'll start a little different, maybe even sentimentally. And, like Marshal Pęk, I will begin with the words of the poem, this time Jan Kasprowicz. It's rare on my lips. It's rare on my lips. Let this lip confess today. He's got blood all over him. The most expensive word: Homeland. This poem has 21 verses. I strongly encourage you to remember it either or read it because it's all there. About us. Even though it was written during World War I, Kasprowicz writes about us, about our pits and our misery, about our land, where the grain is gold, about cereals that destroy villains, pestilences and elements. Everything's just like it is now. Old words, but they're still moving. High Izbo, we are debating the Homeland Defense Act, a special law. It has already been said that 824 articles are written in 26 chapters. The work on this bill is really already ongoing, you can say, for two years, as you can see how it is read. You can see it's really well-edited. It has been thought through in the context of legal order, but it is also well read. Nobody did, of course. It has also been said here that we will accept it under such dramatic circumstances, at a time when behind our south-eastern border, in Ukraine, Russia is beastly over the population and destroying its property. As Minister Skurkiewicz described it, this situation forces us to change the pace of our development and implementation of the Homeland Defense Act. The Minister, like the rapporteur Senator, the chairman of our National Defence Committee, Mr Jarosław Rusiecki, has set out the main principles of the law and amendments to existing laws. The most important ones are the increase in military numbers, the increase in funding and investment in equipment. Poland and Poles are to defend a large army, well-trained and modernly equipped. As stated in the preamble, all, and especially the soldiers who perform military service in the Republic of Poland, should be guaranteed the best possible conditions. With this heavy volume in hand, print number 666, you can be terrified because you don't know how to handle it, but after even a brief review of this bill... I did it last night. This law really encourages reading. It is clearly divided and discusses all issues related to the defence of the homeland. They are mentioned at the beginning, in Article. Paragraph 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly. Moreover, this last issue, namely the tasks of entrepreneurs, was the subject of the concerns raised about lending or requisitioning for the military in a situation of threat, in a situation of war, those cars to carry drugs. The records are really clear and transparent, and you can see this multi-monthly work here. I think that, in this connection, recognition and gratitude belong to all those who have worked on this law, although we are aware that in the case of national defence staff, the adoption of the law does not end this work. You still have a lot of work to do. There are 160 acts to be amended that the Minister referred to, including 10 urgent acts. We really wish you strength, health. God bless you in this further work. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in the Senate, we have adopted hundreds of laws. Named most of them, even when discussing these laws, we could not pronounce them from memory. We all have images of bombed Ukraine in front of us today. We hear the scream of children, the scream of fear and pain. We see the despair of mothers, we see the face of fathers, brothers, sons who leave their families, go to fight for their country and die. And that's so close to us. We've never felt it before. At least I'm talking about myself, but I don't think it's just me. That we are working on a law that, despite the need to make adjustments... But the role and needs of this law are not questioned. After the atmosphere of the meeting of our Committee on National Defence, but also after the result of the votes of the Sejm, we may think that we will probably adopt this law over political divisions. And we will adopt the most beautiful law in his words, the name of which can never be forgotten: the Law on the Defense of the Homeland. Let it be our pride. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u85	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! My speech was supposed to be an illustration, an explanation of the amendment I was about to make now, at second reading, relating in general to the subject matter, to the civil protection institution. There won't be an amendment. I'm opting to adopt a law without amendments, for three reasons. First reason: unanimity is important, i.e. voting without amendments. I hope that everyone in this House will vote in favour, because this also has an impact and an impact on the outside and also on the country. And in the current situation, this impact is particularly important. Second reason: speeding up work on the bill. This bill, if, I hope, the High House will vote in favour of its adoption without amendments, will now be simply ready to sign and will be placed on the President's desk. And then there's the third line. Minister Skurkiewicz explained some substantive matters here, namely the concept of civil protection. It is now starting to move more towards crisis management, but there is another, in my opinion, equally important concept, namely universal defence. As far as civil defense is concerned, this subject matter in the bill, I would call it, Mother... well, in the one we repeal, the main law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, still from 1967, occupied quite a considerable area. This is almost 30 articles. It's a pity that you couldn't work on this big bill and on this one, I'd call it a causal one. I don't know what to call it, the department, about one thing, civil protection, in parallel. There's been a delay. I would ask the Minister to... This isn't his resort, but I'd ask him to make sure this civil defense bill, so necessary, necessary, appears as soon as possible. Minister, because, from what you've said, it appears that she's on the verge of completing her work on the Council of Ministers, I think... Well, then there will be some consultation, a message to the lower chamber, then a higher chamber, which is us, so, I think, in three months, this bill could be passed. Because that's the need for a moment, as is the case with this big bill. And I promise I will return after 3 months to the issue of the law on civil defense, with the whole conglomerate related to this, crisis management, universal defense, etc. It is logical, as I think, that we should finish these issues, I would call it, legislative, well, plus, of course, regulation, and we will take care of it. It's already a country. Implementing issues, i.e. simply Arming and training the army. The lack of these civil defence records can unfortunately result in some gaps. I will present to you here one of these gaps, which I hope will in a certain sense be covered in a future document. Namely, when it comes to civil protection legislation, there are important issues for me regarding education for security. This is an object that is already being implemented at the end of primary school and in secondary schools, in vocational schools, which is to prepare our young people for, let's call it, self-defense. This is one of the elements, and this is how I treat it, universal defense. Not only adults, but also young people, as much as they can understand how they can cope with these obligations, should be prepared, especially in this position of Poland and at that time, to hope that they will not be forced to do so someday. To face the challenges. Since civil defense laws are not included in the text of the Homeland Defense Act, the effect is that there are no regulations related to education for security. Naturally, delegations will be repealed to issue regulations that are already issued, which are related to safety education. And this education for safety will be kind of hanging in the air a little bit. This needs to be completed as soon as possible. I make this remark, very detailed, because it is common in the case of young people. The Ukrainian experience, which we are witnessing, says only one thing about us, about planning our actions, about how this building should look from a legal point of view. At the base of this building, I'd call it, defending against an outside invader, is a common defense. Universal defense should be in the view of the Ministry of National Defence and of course the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I would ask you to remember this, not to forget it, because universal defense... I've read the phrase somewhere that war wins the second throw of the reserve, the second retreat. Ladies and gentlemen, this universal defense will be the ones who will be trained on the second pitch. Let us train them well, let us give them the tools to defend themselves so that they can defend their villages, their cities, their homes directly. I will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for, as I would say, we have been painlessly through the time of the bill. This is also a thank-you to the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u87	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have two more myths I'd like to deal with. I'll do it in a short version, looking at this discussion. I'll start by asking the senator. I don't know if the senator knows the second verse of this poem. I will quote it because it is important from the point of view of our debate. She sounds like this: I've seen how I've been in the markets. They gather merchants, Bidding for each other, Who will speak the loudest? We need to be careful not to assume the concept of homeland and other such categories, because then they are subject to inflation. [[Applause]] Due to long cooperation Senator and I have a twenty-five right now. I recounted the second verse. I also respect the poet. [[I wanted to read it all, but...]] I know, I know. There's a lot of verses. I'm going back to one of the myths I announced. A large army is a strong army That was the opinion expressed by Minister Błaszczak in the Sejm. Period, no extra elements. I want to stress that this can be deceptive and can be ineffective. For me, the most important thing is that the army is of course more numerous, and that it is first and foremost well equipped, well trained, with the right facilities, also with excellent diplomacy, signed very good pacts. It's crucial to me, it's very important. The largest army has China, but of course they are not the strongest. The United States has the strongest army. We know that in fourth place when it comes to numbers It's over 1 million soldiers. It's North Korea. But I thank you for such an army and for this life that Koreans have in North Korea. South Korea, as I recall, has half as many armies, but it's definitely stronger. I'll ignore the fact that North Korea has nuclear weapons. I stress these elements only so that very precisely, very consciously and professionally approach the challenge of a larger army. Second line. In my opinion, it is very important to anticipate events, to anticipate conflicts, to prepare for these conflicts, and I must say that I look with appreciation at Ukraine, which has not wasted these last years, has shifted in rankings, has prepared for conflict. Quite different from the Russians who are completely surprised. Here I will also remind you of the various decisions that were made earlier, à about one tank, the other tank, now the tanks from the United States, excellent. But we also have announcements, among others. General Skrzypczak, who says that slowly this element of war, in which tanks were so important, goes to the lamus. We have to remember that, yes, we have to remember that, because a strong army is not only this well equipped with traditional equipment elements, but also anticipating threats, as they develop on the battlefield. I would also like to stress here that I agree with Senator Czerwiński that we must pay attention to reserves, to training civilians, also to preparing civilian facilities for various threats, including cyber attacks, paralysis of energy systems, communication systems. It's all very important. I stress: if we give so much money and they are at the expense of other areas, otherwise it cannot be done, we must remember that they must be spent in an extremely responsible, extremely rational way. I will return to some announcements, because for many, many years I had the impression that we are dealing with verbal modernisation, in which there are very many words, and behind them there are no specific actual decisions or effects. We must remember the continuity of the state, remember the achievements of Minister Onyszkiewicz. That's when the Warsaw Pact ended its life. We must remember the activity of sleep. Jerzy Szmajdziński, who together with the Minister, as I recall, Janusz Zemke was establishing a contract related to the F-16. Besides, these F-16s appeared at different moments, received them and Sikorski, also received them by his former minister. We must remember that the continuity of the state means the necessity of honoring the predecessors, whether it is the mentioned by me Tomek Semoniak, or it is Bogdan Klich, the senator of our benches. We must remember that honoring the predecessors builds the continuity of the state, the seriousness of the state and, at the end of the day, the power of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We rise above politics at such an important time, at such an important historical moment. We support this law not because it is so perfect, because it is not perfect, but because time is special. We do not say that this bill is flawless, but the moment is really historic, this is the most important moment for the Republic of Poland for 30 years. I would just like to signal that, of course, we have some doubts about the liquidation of the WKU, about the liquidation of the voivodships, about the introduction of instability as regards the situation of the soldiers. We believe it will be temporary. Of course, questions are raised all the time about the operation of the army, about what happened to experienced officers, with experienced generals pushed out of the system, with people with great experience gained on foreign missions. There are questions about some of the programmes to be implemented and have not yet been implemented. There are questions about some of the interventions being undertaken, signalled and Prime Minister, and the Minister, and about the functioning of the PGZ itself, are questions about the state of the unfinished ammunition factory in Pionki. We should use as a state at this moment the full potential to accelerate the modernization of the Polish army, equip it with state-of-the-art equipment. Especially should we put emphasis on funding, because the moment is the most important. Now a few words about this moment, because we are dealing with a moment of geopolitical importance, with a moment of moving large tectonic plates in international politics. This is a situation that can shape the international order for another 30 and 40 years. Russia is implementing its geopolitical plan, Russia or Putin is really implementing the plan of Dugin, Russian geopoliticalists. In the 1990s there was a hesitation about which way to go, but now the Russians are absolutely moving towards expanding this, say, the heartland of the Euro-Asian civilization and, of course, believe, in a false and very perfidious way, in the superiority of this Ruso-Conservative civilization according to Dugin over the Atlantic civilization, over the civilization of the supposedly falling West. But there is also a great chance in these tragic weeks of • this opportunity is the unification of the West, the unification of NATO states, the unification of the European Union. The plan to build the Eurasian Union, implemented by Putin for 10 years, will not be realized by the determination of the Western world, institutions, Western organizations, thanks to the determination and good election of President Biden in the United States. What if this choice were different? But we are also aware that, as Senator Zdrojewski said, we are dealing with the continuity of the state, with the memory of these national defence ministers, those politicians who previously worked on the state of the Armed Forces and who are now responsible for it. Let us also remember about the future, that the Polish army, the Polish army is a very important element on this geopolitical chessboard in this part of Europe, an element that blocks the implementation of geopolitical, crazy Russian goals. That is why we support this law and, although we are aware of its imperfections, we are taking full responsibility for the state of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! General! Ladies and gentlemen Officers! High Senate! In conclusion, as chairman of the Committee on National Defence, I would like to express my thanks and my appreciation to all the political groups who worked on this law here in the Senate, but also in the Sejm, because there have also been changes to some provisions, which have improved this law. As we all say in the discussion, this law and its accompanying regulations will still require precise action. Thank you very much to all the senators who have worked on the committee and who have also spoken in the debate. Thank you very much to the Minister, to all the co-workers, both those who are at the head of the various departments in the Ministry of National Defence, as well as those who are in uniforms of soldiers of the Polish Army who worked on this bill. I would also like to thank all the agencies working with the Ministry of National Defence on this project. Of course, I would like to thank your legislators very warmly, who have paid attention to the issues that need to be repaired or improved in the future. There's a big challenge ahead of us. It has a special moment, a special time. It may be worth paying attention and considering whether this is the last time to reflect not only on the state of the Polish Armed Forces, but also on the state of the Polish defence industry to rework, taking into account the geopolitical situation that is happening in front of our eyes. It is impossible not to notice the enormous, titanic activity of the President of the Republic at that time, as well as the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. The Foreign Minister plays a particular role here as Head of the OSCE at the present time or Minister of National Defence, who is taking action in this area of diplomacy, in the area of international action. It's all about focusing on one goal. The security of our homeland, but also giving international witness to the situation that is happening at the moment. The origin of new changes must be true values, not just interests between the parties, Russia and the democratic West, which defends values. This is of course a challenge for us as Poles. Looking at the spare of strength, health by the Polish Armed Forces, by a Polish soldier at that time, our compatriots should draw the conclusion that the best form of defence is the mobilization of the entire nation, because only the nation can defend a country that has its more than a thousand years of history. It's a big job. I don't want to appeal to the various reflections and myths that were overthrown, which were illuminated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that only one quote should be such a characteristic quote when we are also talking about security issues... It is telling the truth, because only the truth can set us free. Let's not be selective. Let's not just talk about the fact that in a very painful period, 1939, ultranational rhetoric dominated Poland. After all, before our eyes recently dominated the teacher of shame towards our history! Against a Polish soldier... [[That's not true.]] ...who stood at the border and defended the border. [[That's not true.]] I do not want to cite examples, but a Polish soldier who defends the border solemnly swears that he will not spare health and blood, so he cannot be insulted when he defends these values. Once again, I would like to thank all your senators, the Minister, all your colleagues for the good, consistent cooperation that builds the future and security of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Viktor Durlak, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Józef Łyczak have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Is the government representative... There are no legislative proposals, so I guess, Minister, there's no... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Two sentences.]] But there are no legislative proposals, Minister, only when... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's only two sentences.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Only two sentences.]] But two sentences. Because I'm about to call a break and vote, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u94	Only two sentences, Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, to clarify or clarify those issues that were raised during the debate. But first, thanks. Thank you very much for this substantive debate, for this substantive discussion in the interests of the security of our homeland, regardless of political colours. However, you can rise above the political divide, and I thank you once again. Ladies and gentlemen, a few points to clarify, clarify or even correct. The first point is the issue of the Armed Forces Support Fund, and the Senator has raised this issue. There will be parliamentary control on this issue. An appropriate amendment was adopted in the Sejm saying that the Minister of Defence will submit information on the implementation of the Fund or the spending of funds under the Armed Forces Support Fund. He'll do it before the National Defense Parliamentary Commission. It's the National Defence Committee that's gonna take that information. We could probably talk about health care with Senator Necessary for a long time, but this issue also appeared in Senator Komarnicki's speech. We introduce in the bill the possibility that soldiers will be able to be served outside the order only in the Military Health Service It's 14 hospitals and 36 clinics. But they will not outrun all those who have such powers, veterans, veterans, pregnant people, honorary blood donors. But we had to create a system like this because it was happening... not to say pathology, but to such awkward situation that, for example. Special Forces soldiers whose data should be protected, especially sensitive ones, in order to get to the doctor as soon as possible, had to use private health services because they had to wait a few months or six months in this open room. We absolutely can't allow ourselves to be in this situation. Cyberspace issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cyber Defence Army is a fact. These actions are taken on the basis that it is the North Atlantic Alliance that has identified another domain of potential armed conflict, cyberspace. Let's not forget that either, because this is an important issue. And finally, a thank you to Senator Czerwinski. I know that Senator Czerwiński has made some adjustments. I am pleased that this work of yours will be used in another piece of legislation. Yes, indeed, this work on the Civil Defense Act is very advanced. To be precise, we didn't want to enter these details here for any other reason. Civil defense is the defense against this military threat, against the military and before the war, so we've separated it. But here's what I'm proposing. I refer to President Rusiecki here. In the Senate in the Committee on National Defence, or perhaps in a wider group, we would like to prepare a conference in which we will be happy to participate, on the development and challenges of universal defence, because this is a thing... It's very often that these concepts get mixed up. Perhaps a meeting with experts, including ours, also from our military universities, would explain a lot of things, we could explain a lot of things. And one more thing. Education for safety. We are working very hard with the Ministry of Science and Education on a new programme basis in this area. This work has been going on for a long time. In addition, the issue of setting up troops for military preparation, 150 branches, is a prognosis of earlier cooperation with the Ministry of Education. This year from 1 September there will be an additional 40. So we take very much into account the area of higher secondary education, and today we are above-basic and very strongly supporting it, not only in substance but also in financial terms. As you know, every branch, whether military preparation or certified uniform class, must have a patronage in the form of a military unit from its territory, and here is such direct, tangible support and cooperation. I'm sorry I abused your marshal's kindness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u95	Thank you very much, Minister, especially for this succinctness. I inform you that the vote will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a 15-minute break. After this break, the vote will take place. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 16 to 14 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u96	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, we are back to discussing item 17 of the agenda: the Homeland Defense Act. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments. Senatski Print No 666 A. I ask you to focus because we are voting on the draft resolution tabled by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 94]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Defense of the Father. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The subject matter of the statement may not be matters relating to the agenda of the current Senate meeting, including the previous days. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. The senator's statement is not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Gawłowski came in first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Poland is in danger of an energy collapse. More power blocks will be shut down in 2025. Due to their technical death, production capacity will be significantly reduced in this area, which means that we must have a rational and fully thought out idea of how to secure Poland in terms of energy supply. One of the potential sources may be It should be renewable energy. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to speed up the work already announced by the government in relation to the change of the so-called. a law of height, a law of 10H, which allows the construction of wind power plants on land. This is one of those areas that will allow us to adapt faster and secure Poles in terms of cheap electricity supply. Let me remind you that the Lithuanians have reduced the price of electricity by 31%. only because they have invested in renewable energy in an appropriate way in advance. I would also ask the Prime Minister to send a request because conflicting communications are coming from various ministries of the United States for full information on the preparations for the offshore construction of windmills at sea. Recently, the government changed its decision on the so-called. an assembly port. He was supposed to be originally in Gdynia, now he's supposed to be in Gdansk. The government announces that it will be ready for this investment by 2025. In fact, there is no chance that this investment will be implemented in such a short period of time. The environmental process alone will take over two years. I would therefore like to know how the government intends to resolve this problem regarding the preparation of assembly ports first and then service ports. Let me remind you that investment in renewable energy in the Baltic Sea is an investment of PLN one hundred and a half billion. This is an opportunity for more than 10,000 people to get a high-paying job. It is also a chance to create service ports and assembly ports in Poland, as well as to rebuild it. And that's what I'm asking you, the backup for the construction and assembly of the islands. In Szczecin there is a ST3 plant which was adapted to build the foundations of artificial islands under wind power plants. Today, this company is in bankruptcy. I would like to ask you to what extent the government intends to engage in the acquisition of this factory, its reconstruction and the commissioning of the production of artificial islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of the local governments of several cities These are Silesian Bakers, Bytom, Radzionków and Świerkliniec On behalf of investors, and with such a request to take into account the comments that these municipalities have developed together with the investor in the context of the construction of the S11 expressway. The S11 road is a very important road. In fact, it connects the south with the cities by the sea, it runs all over Poland. It seems reasonable, it is appropriate that the municipalities are getting along in order to develop a common position. Therefore, I absolutely support these comments and I ask that they be taken into account in terms of the options adopted in relation to the S11 route. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a statement to Minister Andrzej Adamczyk regarding today's paralysis in passenger transport on the Tricity line Cracow. This was due to a system failure in the local rail traffic control centers. According to the first information, it was a cyber attack, and that's what it looks like. The information that now appears that this was caused by the transformation of time is not true. Many times, in the interests of the safety of Poles, at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure, as well as in interpellations, we talked about the dangers posed by poor rail traffic control. Complete supervision of the rail traffic control system still has Bombardier and Thales. We know how these lines are maintained and how they are guarded. If there's a malfunction, there's a fire out, and it shouldn't be. And that's why I think it's wrongly done. The suggestion of specialists to give the railway control system the full status of critical infrastructure in the military sense, as Ukraine did, was not taken into account, as the Czechs did. It's never been done here. That's why I have a question for Minister Adamczyk. Who is responsible for the state of things we have today? Who is responsible for the safety of Poles who will want to run trains tomorrow or later in this situation which is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Marek Plura.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, to the Minister of Education and Science and to the Minister, the Government's representative for persons with disabilities. Among the nearly 2 million Ukrainian citizens who crossed the Polish border and found refuge in us, fleeing the war, there are tens of thousands of people with disabilities, including a very large group of children, students requiring special learning, special conditions. I am glad that Polish law gives these people the opportunity to learn, to treat and also to support the social community. However, in order to take advantage of these opportunities, they must use the Polish system of case law, disability decisions, as well as decisions of psychological and pedagogical counsellors. Minister Piontkowski assures us that he has made a recommendation to these clinics to act in an accelerated manner towards children, students from Ukraine, but in fact this does not mean much, because, in addition to carrying out their own psychological studies, they must legally also serve the opinions of specialists such as psychiatrists, neurologists, rehabilitation doctors. It is very difficult to obtain these opinions not only because you wait a long time in line, but also because you have to go to them, as well as to a clinic, with an interpreter whose presence will enable such tests to be carried out. I therefore call for this to be regulated so that special schools, integration classes and other support schemes for special educational needs can be based on Ukrainian documentation, translation. After all, already on the basis of the translated documentation we accept doctors and nurses from Ukraine to work in Poland. It is similar in the disability system. I call for the establishment of a simple system of submission of Ukrainian judgments in our Polish solutions and for the system of case law to take into account medical documents, diagnosis, examination of Ukrainian doctors. After all, all around the world, when it comes to medicine, we operate in the same system of clear medical nomenclature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement by the Senators of Law and Justice on the resolution of the Belgian Senate of 25 February 2022 is addressed to the Marshal. Dear Marshal, March 4th this year Our e-mail addresses were received by a letter from the Senate Chancellery with the content of a resolution adopted by the Belgian Senate on the rule of law in Poland calling for proceedings against Poland to be initiated in the Council of the European Union in connection with the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal. The text sent contains a list of 15 international documents which legitimize this resolution with the call of individual governments and federal government, among others. to condemn, insist, call, halt and pressure on the Polish Government, the Government of the Republic of Poland, for violating the rule of law and threatening to suspend the funds due to us from the European Union. Mr Marshal, we believe that, in the current political situation in Europe, it is at least inappropriate to adopt and send such resolutions to senators because of Russia's aggression on Ukraine's threat to European and world peace. Except for the fact that a resolution type document doesn't oblige anyone, and if anything, I'm sorry. We don't think anybody... Maybe again. Apart from the fact that a resolution of a type does not oblige anyone to comply with it, it must be said that this resolution adopted by the Belgian Senate the day after Russia's attack on Ukraine should not be adopted and, if any, it should not be the subject of our attention because of its total unfoundedness. Plus, we've got more important things to worry about right now. Poland, as the closest neighbour of Ukraine, is aware of the obligation to provide humanitarian aid. We accepted about 2 million refugees to Poland, mainly women and children, providing them with shelter, food and medical care. All of this requires a huge amount of money. Parliament adopts laws authorising all kinds of assistance, also directed to Ukraine. The President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of National Defence, the entire government of the Republic of Poland through diplomatic actions mobilizes the world to support Ukraine and solve the many global problems that Russia's policy has brought to Europe and the world. Now is not the time to deal with the alleged lack of rule of law in Poland, which accuses the government of opposition and misinformed by some foreign institutions. Poland is a democratic country, ruled by authorities elected in democratic elections. We ask Mr Marshal to send our statement to the authors of the resolution. Here are the signatures of the Senators of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u106	Thank you very much. Of course we will. I would just like to explain to the senator at the outset that my sending to all senators was informative, because I imagine that if I hadn't sent it, someone would have accused me of hiding the resolution of another Senate. Your response, of course, will be sent through the International Affairs Office and, I believe, will close the topic. Let me add that we receive various documents from different Senates and I will send them to you in the sense of being honest with the circulation of information. Your statement will be made by Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u107	The statement is addressed to Minister Adam Niedzielski. Is the proposed abolition of the restrictions on protection against the outbreak of COVID-19 also an indication of the eradication of epidemics and epidemics, or will it be merely the abolition of allowances for people working in covid units and the elimination of those troops and the abolition of the restrictions that have so far been in force? It's one question. My second question, also to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski: how does the government intend to save Polish hospitals from financial collapse? In particular, I ask whether there is a plan to increase the valuation of health benefits for past- and this year's inflation. Will the price of gas, electricity and other products necessary for the hospital's operation be balanced, for example. are accounted for in euro and the increase in the euro rate results in a fall in hospital finances? If such a plan exists, when will Polish hospitals receive information about changes in contracts and lump sums in 2022? I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u108	Thank you very much, senator. As your last statement, Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u109	Mr. Marshal, I, too, am directing my senator's statement to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Students who are citizens of the Republic of Poland who study medicine in Ivano-Frankivsk in Ukraine came to my senator's office. In connection with their war activities, they were forced to leave the country. This means that they cannot continue their studies in Ukraine in the foreseeable timeframe. After contact with Polish universities, these people learned that there are currently no procedures regarding their ability to continue their medical studies in Poland. According to the information obtained by these people, universities plan to launch additional places for students who are Ukrainian citizens, the recruitment plans are not known, and universities do not have any guidelines from the Ministry regarding admissions for studies of Poles who want to continue their studies in Poland in Ukraine. According to the students mentioned, the whole community of Polish citizens studying in Ukraine has concerns about their future and the possibility of further education in Poland. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Firstly, is the Ministry of Health aware of the difficult situation of Polish citizens studying medicine in Ukraine? Secondly, what number of people might be affected by this problem? And thirdly, is there a mechanism in the plans of the Ministry of Health that allows Poles studying in Ukraine to continue their medical studies at Polish universities? Sincerely, Krzysztof Frost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-17-senat-38-4.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. This is a valuable question, although I must tell you that no procedure exists... [[That's how I was informed...]] ...because I know at least a few students who started studying in Ukraine and continued in Poland, and these mechanisms are. However, there is no doubt that, in an emergency situation such as war, they should be simplified, accelerated, etc. I think that's a valuable question, because the Ministry has to show some energy here. [[I'm based on information from two young people who turned to me. They've been knocking on medical universities somewhere, and they've got an answer like that everywhere that's not gonna happen right now. We'll see. I am directing this to the Minister of Health, because medical schools are subject to the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Education and Science in this area.]] I don't think they've been fully informed, but they need help and... [[Thank you.]] ...the letter will certainly be helpful. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 28th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed for the 10th term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 54]]
