ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u1	I shall resume the session of the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that the senators were appointed for the meeting: Rafał Ambrozik, Viktor Durlak, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check that all of you have excluded applications for remote participation in the sitting and that your senators participating in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. I hope that everyone has already taken their cards, as we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted and so many are attending the sitting at the moment. High Izbo, I suggest, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, supplementing the agenda on items: second reading of the draft resolution on support for Ukraine and consider it as item 10 of the agenda, i.e. the first one today; the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and consider it as item 11 of the agenda, i.e. the second one today; the Law amending the Law on Education and certain other laws and consider it as item 12 of the agenda, which is the third and last today. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would like to inform you that after considering paragraph 10 on the draft resolution on support for Ukraine, there will be a vote on this matter. The remaining votes will be held at the end of today's session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on support for Ukraine. Welcome to the meeting of the Ukrainian Ambassador to Poland, His Excellency, Mr Andrij Desszczyca. Welcome, Mr. Ambassador. [[Applause]] I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 627. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! Guys, guys! We were with the Ukrainian brothers at the most important moments of their national history. We were with the Ukrainians when they announced their independence in December 1991. It is worth remembering that the Polish ambassador already on 2 December, and thus the day after the referendum last year, informed about the recognition by the Polish state of independence of Ukraine. The Polish state was the first country in the world to recognize Ukraine's independence, immediately after the referendum, even before the signing of the Belarusian agreements on 8 December 1991, which meant the break-up of the Soviet Union. It is a great event that behind our eastern border an independent Ukrainian state has formed. This is an extremely important event for the stability of Central and Eastern Europe, and for us, Poles and Poles, a guarantee or one of the security guarantees of our country. We were with the Ukrainian brothers when they went out on the streets. And then, when in Kreszatik they massively pitched their tents in 2004 in a large, nationwide protest against fraudulent presidential elections. We were there because we thought it was the right thing to support those who fight for the integrity of elections, want their voice to be heard, and demand the truth in public life. They won, including with our support. The election has been repeated. Victor Yanukovich lost, Victor Yushchenko won. We were with our Ukrainian brothers in Majdan. And there were a lot of us there. We used to come there, representing different political options. We were there to express our deepest, not only political, but also ordinary human support. We from Europe, from the European Union, for them, those who knocked on the door of the European Union and wanted to get to it because they have the right because they are in Europe and have the right to be in the European Union. And finally we were with them when they opposed the Russian invasion a few months later, when the green men, the Russian army, occupied the Crimea, making an unlawful annexation of this peninsula. And later, when the Donetsk and Lugansk circuits appeared so-called. separatists supported de facto by Russia. We helped, supported, were present personally during those events in Kiev. Today, too, Poles and Poles are not only the heart, but also their minds with Ukrainians, because the future of our country depends on how the situation in Ukraine settles, because what happens with Ukraine in the future depends on stability and security in our region. Ukraine today is facing an extraordinary, I would say, historic challenge. President Putin in 2008 at the Bucharest Summit With Marshal Kaminski, we witnessed this. He spoke of Ukraine as an artificial state, an artificial state. In the summer this year he published an article about the historical unity of Ukrainians and Russians, in which he puts among others. The idea that sovereign Ukraine can only be in connection with the Russian Federation, a thesis that logical order turns upside down. The sovereign Ukraine is where it is. Sovereign Ukraine is where the Ukrainians want it, and 60% Ukrainians in some studies even more than 60% He is in favour of Ukraine's membership in NATO. Therefore, our duty, as states and institutions of the Polish representative state, including the Senate, is to support in these dramatic moments our brothers Ukrainians. We are pleased that the President of the United States and its administration have started and carried out an unprecedented campaign of mobilization of the West for Ukraine. It's going well. We are proud that both NATO and Washington, in response to the Kremlin ultimatum, have made themselves clear in favour of all the principles that unite the North Atlantic Alliance and make the West a community of values, that they are in favour of open door policy, the right of nations to self-determination and to choose their ally path and, finally, that no one will dictate to the North Atlantic Alliance where and what to deploy. Now we're waiting to see what happens. We hope it will be without the worst. We hope that Russia will not repeat its 2014 invasion of Ukraine. But for this to happen, this voice, which we propose today as the voice of the Polish Senate, is needed. If you don't mind, I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the support of Ukraine. Free Ukraine is one of the guarantors of the security of Poland. The Republic was the first country to recognise its independence. The next Polish governments strengthened the strategic partnership of our countries. Today, when Ukraine faced a deadly danger The threat of another invasion It is particularly important that the authorities of the Republic of Poland reliably support our neighbour. There is no safe Poland without independent Ukraine. The Senate of the Republic of Poland supports political and financial assistance to Ukraine, the supply of arms to Ukraine and the participation of NATO member states soldiers in training of Ukrainian military. Any action to deter an aggressor has a huge impact on the morale of the Ukrainian people. Russia has gathered a huge army with tanks, heavy artillery, ships and combat aviation at Ukraine's borders. The aim of this escalation of tensions is to destabilise Europe. This threatens the outbreak of the greatest armed conflict since World War II. In 1994, the United States, Russia and the United Kingdom committed themselves to respect Ukraine's sovereignty and integrity and to refrain from any threat of violence against its independence in exchange for the destruction of nuclear potential. Ukraine has fulfilled its obligations. Despite this, Russia attacked Ukraine in 2014, annexed Crimea and controlled separatists in Donbas. Prior to the next invasion of Russia, Ukraine is unconditionally supported by the North Atlantic Alliance, the European Union and the United States of America. The authorities in Kiev started strategic cooperation with NATO in 1997 and in 2008 allies agreed to its future membership. Today we are facing a test of this open door policy. The Senate of the Republic of Poland also believes that dialogue with the Russian Federation is possible. However, it must not take place in a situation of military blackmail, undermining the principle of inviolability of borders in Europe and hybrid attacks against democratic institutions. The condition for this dialogue is the withdrawal of Russian troops from the Ukrainian border. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u3	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? If not, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the authors of the resolution. I think that it corresponds not only to our emotions, but also to the strategic interests of the Republic, and shows the difference between wise patriotism and nationalism. Because smart patriotism doesn't just make you think of yourself. Ukrainians have the right to independent existence, to be associated with the institutions of European civilization. But it must be said very clearly that Jerzy Giedroyci's political thought is working very strongly, which, even before World War II, made it clear that Ukraine's independence is simply a security factor for the Republic of Poland and a security factor for our part of Europe. We can do a lot on this matter, not only because of what is in our hearts and minds, but we could do much more if we free ourselves from the blockades that the government has imposed in the European area. With the naked eye, it can be seen that our diplomatic capabilities would be much greater if we could eliminate the rule of law dispute, i.e. if the government should even withdraw significantly from the work in this area, which deprives us of many allied opportunities. Senator Klich exposed the American position. Indeed, we are impressed by the power and determination. But Europe's solidarity must be added to this. In order to fight for this solidarity of Europe, to mobilise ourselves, we should have free hands. Personally welcome with positive reaction the initiative of the President of the Republic Although it is difficult to talk about the draft law on the Supreme Court without knowing its content, I welcome with horror the reaction of a part of the power camp, especially the group of Minister Ziobra who drags Poland to madness and full isolation in this matter. [[And now it's gonna start.]] It has an important connection... [[But, Senator, we're discussing the Ukrainian resolution.]] ...because Poland... Ukraine needs Poland anchored in Europe, Poland with some opportunities, full of allies. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You can express your views in the debate. What is eye to foreign partners, to the United States, is not eye to you. In order to regain our ally's ability, we should come out of this embarrassment that we ridiculously imposed on ourselves. And finally, you need courage combined with caution. I think that the High House must at some point get information about what the agreement concluded in Kiev between Ukraine, Poland and Great Britain is about. Because I am very pleased with the attitude of the British and our attitude, such an active defence of Ukraine's independence, but the basic responsibility dictates that we should know what the content of this agreement is and whether it is an agreement, whether it was just a marketing act. Because in times where human life and the lives of nations are determined, one must be very responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u5	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Marshal Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is much evidence that we will be voting on this resolution in a moment, and there is much evidence that we will all vote in favour of this resolution, regardless of the political differences that divide us, which we give almost every opportunity in this Chamber. What, however, is that the usually disagreeable Marshal Pęk and Vice-Marshal Kaminski will this time be on the same side of the political dispute, and in principle there will not be a dispute? Why won't there be a dispute between us? It will not be because there are moments in the lives of countries and nations when party cards have absolutely no meaning. There are moments in the history of countries and nations where their fate is determined. And no conscious Pole has any doubt that what is happening today at the eastern borders of the Ukrainian state directly concerns the life, security and future of every citizen of the Republic. For he was right to sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, who said that the Russians would start a war in Georgia, then they would come to Ukraine and then they would come to the Baltic States and Poland. And this sad prophecy of our dead president is being fulfilled in front of us. And it is important that this conviction connects all Polish President-in-Offices from Lech Wałęsa, who had the historic opportunity to be the one recognizing Ukrainian statehood, through the next Polish presidents. Because in all the moments of trial, before which the young Ukraine was facing, they were able to show that Poland was on the right side. Today it is similar and you should be happy about it. I ask you, in addition to the ad hoc military dimension and this concern, which also Poles feel, although, of course, to a lesser extent than those directly affected by this war anxiety, in addition to this ad hoc dimension, is the dimension of a powerful gameplay for our future, a game that is perhaps entering a decisive phase. This is an eternal Polish tragedy, huge problems related to the geopolitical location of our country between Germany and Russia in the last few decades from this western side have been solved. Poland from the West is safe in the foreseeable future today, because Germany is rooted in the European Union and NATO and Germany without any doubt recognize the historic border in Odra and Nysa Łużycka. What makes each of us, regardless of political differences, worries about the future of the Republic, is that it is not yet safe from the east. And we know that it will not be safe if on the east side of our homeland there is no free and independent Ukraine, a free and independent nation of Ukraine, which will decide its own future. And this safeguard of the future of our children from the east is a great task which today stands before the generation of Polish politicians, and this task requires as sincere national unity as this national unity that we have achieved, securing our Polish interests from the West, when together the left and right have introduced Poland into NATO and into the European Union, and our position there has been strengthened to some point. It's a union around another important geopolitical goal of security. Poland from the East, I repeat, is a great task that stands before our generation of politicians. An important step towards this task will be to show today in the Polish Senate our cross-party, patriotic, Polish unity and Polish solidarity with Ukraine. Long live free Poland! Long live free Ukraine! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Ambassador! First of all, I would like to refer to one of the speeches that sounded here and in which, by the way, the government seems to be attacking a non-controversial topic. Why? Can't you give up such trips to the opposite political world even on such an occasion? I find it unacceptable, just petty. And the case is very important. Incidentally, in the proposed text of this resolution I did not read the confirmation of the position of our government, the right position, regarding this resolution and the full truth about who and how supports Ukraine. However, there is a difference in support of the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, we had, with all due respect, a state of emergency measure... And so far we have a similar situation at the Polish-Belarusian border. And then one of the... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...of the politicians, one of the politicians, the politicians of the Federal Republic of Germany above our heads talked about this border, and the United Kingdom just sent us soldiers here to help. We see the difference. And it's like it's repeating itself in relation to this problem that this resolution is talking about. It is not that Europe as a whole supports Ukraine equally, actually helps it. This must be stated in the text of this resolution. There's no memory here. even about Nord Stream 2, and this is an element of this puzzle, one of the essential elements. But let's just leave it at that. I would like to take advantage of the fact that there is a Ukrainian ambassador present in Poland, and read the headlines of newspapers, Polish media from the last period. Titles: Polish media not admitted to the conference of the President of Ukraine; Ukraine blocks rail transport to Poland. Polish railroads concerned and dissatisfied; in the celebration of the birth of Bandera in 20 circuits of Ukraine, 3.5 thousand people took part; in Kiev a march took place on the anniversary of the creation of the SS Division... [[Talking in the O.R.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Brother-in-law about banning search and exhumation work in Ukraine: hard... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to understand a situation in which a country that is friendly with Poland does not allow this work to be done. Mr Ambassador, I will vote in favour of this resolution, despite these newspaper titles, because friendship with Ukraine and help in times of need are more important. Those things I was talking about. Small, sometimes more annoying, some even historical Now they have to go further. But, Mr. Ambassador, I have a great request for you: that I never have to read such titles from this bleacher again... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're all for free Ukraine. We are in favour of Poland helping Ukraine with its capabilities, and so far it has mobilised an external opinion to help Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u9	Thank you very much. Friends get to know each other in poverty. There's an old Polish proverb. [[Applause]] For the record, Senators Richard Majer and Alexander Swed have made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on support for Ukraine. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on support for Ukraine. Please approach the Presidency table of the Ukrainian Ambassador to Poland, His Excellency, Mr Andriy Desszczyca. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Thank you so much for this resolution. Thank you very much for the words of support, which are very important to us at these moments. As we have said before, we feel Polish support, we felt it in 1991, 2004, 2014 and we feel it now. I can guarantee here as ambassador that we will be a good neighbour and a good partner of Poland. We will build our future together in a common Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u11	We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 625 and the report of the Commission In print No 625 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Richard Bober, to present a report to the committee. I would remind you that Senator Ryszard Bober was also authorized by the Senate as a representative of the Senate's draft bill. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to submit a report to the High House. The committees recommend that the bill be adopted without amendment. A detailed discussion took place during the previous sitting when the Senate initiative was being considered. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution in the wording submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u13	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the rapporteur's senator, and at the same time a representative of the applicants for the Senate bill. No questions. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I don't see... Oh, there's the minister. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on education and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 613, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 613 A and 613 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At a joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Defence, held on 20 January this year, the High House was recommended to reject the amendment of the law, along with other amendments. [[What am I doing here?]] I don't know what the senator's doing here, but I think if he's doing something, it's rather good. I do not wish to speak on behalf of all those who voted negatively on this bill. That is not the role of the Senator rapporteur. They will probably speak out in the debate. However, as a representative of the committee, the group voting against, I will focus only on the part of the argument that we had in common, in short. I'll do it in points. Firstly, it was not accepted to increase the role of curators at the expense of local authorities, their acquired rights and the logic of responsibility. Secondly, a new concept of curators was denied regarding their participation in the process of dismissing school heads subject to the municipality. Thirdly, it was considered to be too far-reaching interference of the curators in the process of dismissing teachers from management positions. The high likelihood of a violation of the Constitution was underlined by changes in the performance of the municipalities' own tasks, to which it belongs, in accordance with the law, to meet the collective needs of the community, in this case in the field of public education. Attention received First of all, the Legal Office did this. In order to limit self-government, i.e. the freedom of local self-government units, by touching the principle of decentralisation of public authority, i.e. art. 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No Further: lack of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, which is set out in the preamble to the basic law itself; infringement of a significant constitutional balance in the performance of tasks delegated by the public administration indicating the division of powers of central administration and local government; unacceptable giving the public oversight authority effective supervision of an important part of the activity of local government; infringement of Article. 171 of the Constitution, which explicitly defines the conditions and scope of supervision of the local government and clearly points out that this can only be done in the area of legal action. The Commission does not accept the granting of such authority to curators, which could result in a reduction in the activity of NGOs, expected and accepted That's what I'd like to stress. By students, teachers, school principals and parents. The Commission does not take note of That's the last point. The excessive bureaucracy proposed by the Act, which in fact allows the pre-censoring of various activities, including student and local organisations. In short, the bill presented can be regarded not only as an expression of various complex educational and political ambitions, but also, and above all, as ruining more than 30 years of consensus building within the framework of public responsibility for the quality of our education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Senator Rapporteur.]] There is no Senator Rapporteur. In that case... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Oh, there's the senator.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, you're Senator Wind. You're welcome. Minority report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the Amendment of the Law. Education Law and some other laws were examined by joint committees, the Commission for Science, Education and Sports and the Committee on National Defence on 20 January this year. In the vote, the motion to reject the bill was supported by 9 senators, 8 were against, 1 abstained. We can see, therefore, that the majority supporting the rejection of the law was small, only reached with one vote. For this reason, I applied for a law without amendment. Why? It's an important bill. In the media, in many statements one, at most two threads, not the whole of this law is quoted. All you have to do is look at the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office to see that it lists 12 educational law cases, 2 Teacher Charter cases, and 2 educational information cases. That's 16 important cases. Of course, their weight varies, this weight depends on who determines whether it is a student, a parent, a teacher, a school principal, a local government representative, a minister or a politician. I will mention the most important points of this bill. Firstly, the issue of remote learning, which can be allowed not only in relation to the pandemic, but also for other reasons, is defined if the suspension takes more than 2 days. Secondly, there are many provisions on military troops, hence the joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports and the Committee on National Defence. This is a matter of pedagogical supervision, the influence of the Ministry of National Defence. There are many, many specific issues concerning military troops. Thirdly, the culture and artistic institutions, the branches of these institutions. There has not been an adequate legal basis so far, and there is a need for agreements between the Minister and the local government. Fourthly, it's a textbook thing. Fifthly, the issue of adaptation of the rooms of pre-school units, in particular in the field of fire-fighting, until 2024. Sixthly, the educational information system, special educational needs recorded in this system. After seven already, increase the powers of the pedagogical board in the assessment of the organisational sheet. Of course, this has happened in many schools, but it is mandatory here. At the meeting of the committee, there were mentioned situations when teachers in August learned about what this sheet looks like, now before submitting before the holiday the pedagogical board is to give an opinion on this sheet. We are also talking about trade unions that work in a given institution and their impact on this extremely important document, which is an organizational sheet. Eight o'clock, classes run by associations and NGOs. The action plan, the materials are to be subject to parental decisions, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. In particular, we are thinking about art here. 48, which gives these parents the right to raise their children according to their own conviction. There's a probation officer's opinion on this, the director's opinion, but at the end of the day, there's always a parent's decision. After nine o'clock, the school liquidation case. It's about some imprecise records, changing the process of joining schools into a team. Ten o'clock, the principal's pageant. A novelty here is the admission to the competition committee of representatives of the municipalities, district and city councils, defined as an opportunity and not as an obligation. After eleven o'clock, the topic of suspension of the school principal. There's a lot of important new records here. Twelve o'clock, more oversight of non-public facilities. At the meeting of the committee, the situations when the authorities of these schools refused access to the documentation were mentioned, the schools disappeared. There is also an increased role of curator in the dismissal of the director, the curator brings to the lead authority on this matter. Of course, there is a problem here, where there is a limit to decisions between government and government, but we know that since education has a national dimension, there must be a common minimum, in particular with regard to programmes, a certain teaching framework. The State shall set curricula according to age, to the level of development of pupils. It is clear from many statements that this law is being criticised mainly for restricting access to schools of associations, NGOs, but here the Constitution clearly states The parents. Today, therefore, it is not the first time that law and justice defends the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Brave thesis...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I continue, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, go on. And don't bother.]] Thank you very much. Yeah, brave thesis. There were other words on this committee, and I hope to quote them. Brave thesis, because when there were rainbow Fridays in schools, parents weren't asked about it and their constitutional rights were violated. At the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, such a statement was made on parental supervision, but not too much. What does that mean? What does it mean to be too big? And the constitution? There's talk of school autonomy. He has no idea. He doesn't work. We even said that this autonomy applies to universities and that this is a completely different problem. Sexology, of course. Once a difficult subject, today we talk about it freely. But education in this area must be adapted to age, to the developmental stage, not intellectual, but emotional. And parents have priority in this regard. Their decisions regarding form and content must be fully respected. It also involves the problem of school age. There are again demands to reduce this age. There are some data that are not entirely true, because I have a map of Europe that shows that this school age is very, very different, and it turns out that Poland does not deviate from others in this regard. Well, unless it's about using this early age for early demoralization or depravity, as the WHO proposes. Of course, we have excellent Polish sexologists, but unfortunately in this discussion is dominated by ideology and politics, not sensitivity to matters of upbringing equipped with knowledge about the emotional development of young people. Of course, that's what the committee said. Lots of materials, lots of papers... This is indeed a challenge and we will need to monitor how this bill will work, because it is meant to be for the good and not for the bad, to make life difficult for directors, teachers, parents, NGOs. There's gotta be some good. And it is formulated as it was in the Seym best formulated. There were no amendments at committee meetings in this regard and perhaps they were needed. I have no doubt that this law is very necessary, and on behalf of the minorities of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Defence, I request that it be adopted without amendments, recalling the results of the committee's vote against, because there was no other motion: 9 votes in favour, 8 against, 1 against, the senator abstained. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u17	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Błucherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Education and Certain Other Acts adopted by the Sejm on 13 January 2022; Senate Print No 613. On 14 January 2022, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to that committee. Following the review of the Act on 1 February 2022, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution which rejects the Act. In the end, I will tell you who voted, how many people were in favour of this proposal. I will not repeat everything that Senator Zdrojewski said very well and precisely, as well as Senator Wind, who discussed this bill in quite detail. I will focus on the discussion that took place at this committee meeting. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, it is important to note that the committee's meeting lasted more than four hours, 65 people attended, 27 of whom spoke. If I had to summarize that, I'd have to have at least two hours at my disposal, and I don't have that much time here because I have 20 minutes. During the committee meeting, following the presentation by Minister Dariusz Piontkowski of the main principles of the bill and after listening to the comments of Mrs Danuta Drypa, the chief legislator of the Legislative Office, a discussion began. In the discussion, according to the concept proposed by the chairman of the committee of Zygmunt Frankiewicz, the experts, Prof. Ryszard Piotrowski from the University of Warsaw, who presented the legal opinion on behalf of the Union of Polish Metropolitans, followed by Prof. Krystian Ziemski and Dr. Adrian Misiejko from the law firm Krystian Ziemski and Partners who presented the main thesis of the opinion prepared on behalf of the Association of Polish Cities. I will not address this because Senator Zdrojewski put these issues in his report. I will only quote one conclusion from the opinion of Prof. Ryszard Piotrowski: Even respecting the government's intention, it is not possible to do so in accordance with the constitution. Come on. Director Andrzej Porawski from the Office of the Association of Polish Cities pointed out the perverseness of the Ministry of Education in the context of Minister Piątkowski's statement that local governments do not have to run schools, in conclusion: but this municipality will suffer consequences, not the minister. Thus, such statements are, according to the director of the office, pathetic. According to your director, the Minister proposes these changes, because most cases concerning the reorganisation of the school network lose in court and the proposed changes in paragraph. 1a and 1c in Article 89 laws give us a chance to reverse this trend. As a last resort, the Management Board of the Polish Towns Association requests that the Senate reject this law. Ms Iwona Waszkiewicz, Vice President of Bydgoszcz, and at the same time a member of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, said, among others. Yes: we have been working on the legislative changes since July 2021, presenting all the arguments of the environments concerned. She also presented the philosophy that the government is guided by pushing this law on the example of one rule. There was a provision that said that 5 representatives of the pedagogical supervisory authority would be sent to the competition committee in the competition for the head of the school, and only 1 could be present and vote for the others. This is according to the Ministry the pursuit of balance. The Sejm finally came out with a bill about 3 representatives of the curatorium. Ms Waszkiewicz also pointed out the unauthorised interference in the employee's relationship with the employer. The employer is the mayor, the president, not the parole officer. According to her, the idea is clear: it is about intimidating the directors and their submission to them, and the ministry explains that it is about protecting the directors from the operating authorities, now the managing authority will no longer be able to release the director because it has to agree with the curator. The question of the evaluation of the director supplies itself, without agreement with the lead authority, and this assessment is very important, because it must be at least very good for the director to be able to enter the competition. We urge that these provisions do not enter into force. On the other hand, Sylwia Bielawska, Vice President of Wałbrzych, in agreement with all previous statements, also stated: "Since July we have organised meetings to explain the proposed changes in a well-functioning triangle: parents student A student. Everyone is concerned about questioning the role of director and introducing an atmosphere of fear. As local government officials, we are prepared for constant change, despite the pandemic, we will take care to ensure that the school continues to operate. The local government will be fine, according to what the vice president said, suggesting that they move extracurricular activities to cultural centers, libraries, social services homes. It can even teach the students of democracy faster. According to her, the school must remain democratic, free, so that students want to go to school. On the other hand, the Vice President of Warsaw Renata Kaznowska said: "I have noted a few sentences here. We thought that after the reform of Minister Zalewska nothing worse could happen. And here comes Minister Czarnek. And after 25 years of school management, we learned as self-government officials that we are doing everything wrong and that we are going to bring our action to the administration of buildings and the purchase of chalk, and we need to put financial resources on the functioning of schools. And meanwhile, the financial gap, the educational gap, is 30 billion, according to calculations. In September this year there will be a year and a half in secondary schools. In addition, during the pandemic, during the huge problems that students face when they need psychological and even psychiatric support, and we should help them. During remote learning, we get a project that doesn't talk about school problems at any point, and there's really a lot of them. We self-governments have a role to limit to school administration. Finally, he asks: "Do we want to wake up at the end of the day in Minister Czarnek's school? This is the final destruction of the Polish school. Marek Pleśniar from the National Governing Board Association of Education: the solutions proposed in this law insult teachers who will now need to be watched, checked who they invite to schools. And he asks: what powers of officials justify giving them the opportunity to make decisions on who can be invited to school, and that is, two to three months after they have asked for it? How can it be assumed that parents are wrong when agreeing to specific classes? Prof. Hubert Izdebski states that we are dealing with According to Minister Piontkowski A handful of problems. The Constitutional Tribunal, when it was also the Court, and the Constitutional Tribunal, inter alia. he said that the legislator could do a lot, but he can't do everything because he's tied up with other sources of law, including the constitution. The primary responsibility for the education of children is their parents, so it is them, not the minister and not the governor, who are responsible for it. He also referred to the article. 73 Constitution, which ensures freedom of teaching, but also other fundamental rights, among others. the right of the child to learn and to learn what he needs in life, not what the Minister thinks he needs. This law grossly violates those rights. And conclusion: this law should not be adopted in the proposed form and wording. On the other hand, Mrs Alice Pacewicz of the School Foundation with class states that lex Czarnek decides to replace the principle of decentralisation and subsidiarity with the principle of arbitraryness and discretion. It also states that although this law does not yet apply, the freezing effect in schools already occurs. Many initiatives of parents, students and teachers are already being blocked. Teachers are talking about crawling fear, about the fact that there's already a feeling of lex Czarnek or lex Wójcik in the halls. Ms Czarzyńska-Jachim, Vice President of Sopot: we should shout because what follows is the complete destruction of the Polish school. And let us not presume that these changes will serve the disciples or parents. In lex Czarnek everything outside the programme basis will be subject to Minister Czarnok. It's supposed to be a school subject to one goal, a party goal. Mr Krzysztof Baszczyński from the Polish Teachers' Association pointed out that this law should be read in a broader context, because the queue is waiting for lex Wójcik, the bill on whistleblowers or the law on the new subject of HiT. It is important to pay attention to what no one has yet said, that the law fundamentally amends the law on educational information and this is extremely dangerous. This is full surveillance of the teacher when it comes to sickness or maternity leave, and these are sensitive data. Ms Dagmara Rucińska, from the Independent Trade Union, Poland, drew attention to the over-penalization of the profession of teacher, it is about exceeding the rights, failing to fulfil obligations, acting against the public and private interests. These records hit the principle of social trust. We're building a school of fear. This law is designed to undermine trust in teachers, treats teachers as a group to look at hands. The basis for education is dialogue and the proposed statutory changes do not include this. On the other hand, Mr Rafał Rudnicki, Deputy President of Białystok, stated that the proposed changes were a return to the Polish People's Republic. He called on the PiS senators to feel responsible and vote against this bill. Ms Edyta Książek from the Polish Teachers' Association said that she believed that politics was entering schools and classrooms, and said that she was here at the committee meeting I was talking about because she was hoping to stop this trend. On the other hand, Monika Jabłońska, Vice President of Włocławka, stated: "We are paying a huge amount of money to education, and the bill wants to put us in the role of accountant. I'm in the principal's competitions. In a few moments, there will be no willingness to run for this position. Well, that's confirmed by virtually all self-government officials. Iga Kaźmierczak, Fundacja Parents reach for cooperation with organizations not to corrupt young people, but to help parents raise their children. Now these initiatives will be censored by the curator. Zygmunt Puchalski, the Social Educational Society: Everything started with the reform of the Minister of Zalewska and the liquidation of the junior high school. We were at the forefront of students' achievements in Europe. The Finns do not have curatoria, but institutions supporting the development of schools and teachers. Here we go back to the 1970s with the programming base. And he's appealing not to take the schools away from the citizens. In turn Mirosław Kozik from the Young Teacher Club in the Silesian district claims that he is taking the floor in defense of teachers, students and schools: The entire bill will constitute a blockade for an open mind, critical thinking. It is a barricade for tolerance, a school looking at stars, a school free from indoctrination and sculpture. Lex Czarnek can withdraw the Polish school by decades and decades, and the official signature of the curator will block any activity and creativity. Lex Czarnek will block any activity. He wants to give us a school of fear, a school of blunt and ideologically educated citizens, a school in which we offer an accomplice in the age of a tablet. As a result, lex Czarnek is a school breaking the spines of pupils and teachers. Monika Chabier, Deputy President of Gdansk: We have a choice between what we dream about, an open school, democratic school, modern, teaching critical thinking, distinguishing the concept of manipulation from information, and a school that is an office to which we bring children for 8 hours and they are to be with officials. Which will be possible if lex Czarnek gets in, no one knows. Spontaneousity will be inhibited, and without that, there is no development. And what happens if the school doesn't agree to it, the teacher or the parents? There's gonna be probation, criminal sanctions, maybe like a criminal transfer of a student from one school to another. Today, Polish school is one where there are no candidates for a principal I've already mentioned it. If one candidate comes to the contest, then we're happy, it's a success. Is that supposed to look like a good choice? We are addicted to good people and teachers who take overtime, to pensioners who work, to examiners who are trying to get themselves out of the ground so that they want to test according to the new system, on teachers of professional subjects that you don't know where to get from. Is Black's school gonna be an encouraging place? No, because the teacher is passionate. We do not agree to all these provisions. We believe that they destroy the Polish school, destroy Polish self-government, but above all they do not give young people the opportunity to aspire to move us into better Poland. Mayor of Milicz, Piotr Lech: Today's changes contradict those of the 1980s. The clerk's coming back, the D.A.'s surveillance system. It is a return to the Polish People's Republic and an eastern direction. There was no Zalewska reform, because reform is a change for the better. There are no such changes in the proposed solutions. Non-public schools also indicate that they are practically thrown into a single bag of public schools, as Mrs Magdalena Wontek of the National Non-Public Education Forum referred to. Daria Bielenin-Palęcka: The school is a very complex community and many can happen in it. I'm just waiting for my son to complete his education as soon as possible. I don't envy directors and teachers. It was a very rich discussion, not all the votes I mentioned here. Then the senators began to speak. I will limit myself only to the notation which the senators took part in the discussion at the committee meeting, because they will certainly take part in today's debate and repeat the main thesis of their speeches. These were Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Janusz Gromek, Marek Komorowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Janusz Pęcherz. Brief Summary In view of the passing time, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, the committee chairman, made a short one. However, before this summary, Minister Piontkowski also spoke, who had to take part in the vote in the Sejm, but referred to some of these votes. The minister's in the courtroom, so I think he's gonna talk about it here as well. According to Zygmunt Frankiewicz, the bill caused a huge stir in the environment, in the educational environments, as demonstrated by the presence of so many people willing to discuss. These fears should be dispelled and not dispelled. Minister Piontkowski's statement proves that there are two realities that do not meet. That's why we commissioned expertise not to rely on emotions, but on coldness, with knowledge, to analyse the situation that will be created after these changes have been adopted in education law. All the opinions on the subject were uniformly negative and the fact that the Legislative Office of the Sejm, as mentioned by Senator Komorowski, did not dispute these changes in legal terms does not alter this. Doesn't mean everything's okay. This could be the same situation as in the case of the Polish Order. As for the contradiction with the constitution, the President believes the experts, but also the logic. If someone is responsible and someone else makes financial decisions, that is contrary to logic. According to Senator Frankiewicz, this is a very bad time for such an uproar because we are living in a pandemic. The education system is overloaded, children and young people are in crisis, and we are causing confusion, which is certainly not needed now, independent of who is right. The president did not stop this discussion because it is not only the text that matters, but also the context. This is essential, as was highlighted in the discussion. These changes are part of a certain trend, which is visible not only in education, but also e.g. in hospital management projects. This is clearly contrary to the constitution. Supervision of self-government is clearly specified in the Constitution, and this goes beyond the Constitution. [[Timer signal]] Following this conclusion of the discussion, in which no amendments were tabled, only 2 proposals were submitted, the adoption of a law without amendments and the rejection of the law in its entirety The chairman of the committee decided to vote on the proposal as far as possible, i.e. the motion to reject the bill: 6 senators voted against the bill, 2 against. On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I ask the High Senate to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u19	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I would ask you to address these questions because there have been several reports. Of course, there were also various conclusions. Who's calling? Senator Alicia Chybick to see Senator Zdrojewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u20	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if the committee's meeting was about the so-called. This applies to children with disabilities and persons with disabilities over the age of 18 and to hospital schools. How will this deformity affect these schools? Because parents are terrified of what's going on around education law. Isn't that gonna completely put... Was there even a discussion about this? Because in my opinion, the changes that have been made will completely lay down the activities of special schools and hospital schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u21	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u22	The dominant element was, of course, questions and opinions concerning public schools, both those which remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence and those which remain under the responsibility of local authorities. However, one opinion appeared at the meeting of the local government committee, which expressed exactly the same concern as the senator has expressed at the moment, i.e. that this can affect a group of schools with special sensitivity in terms of educational processes, because of the children themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u23	Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you two short questions. First: were the numbers given at the committee meeting, data on the insubordination of directors? The Ministry, as one of the reasons for the changes, states that the directors do not follow the recommendations of the school curators. Yeah, I think it's weird. I would like to ask if such data on insubordination were provided. And second question. Were the numbers given on cases where the school organized classes without parental consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u26	My knowledge is wider than the one that was presented at the committee meeting. In fact, we talked about last year at the committee meeting and there was information that the cases you were asking about were 4. Interestingly, in all these 4 cases there were adequate responses of the organizer, i.e. self-government, to those applications that were. So it can be said, in general, that in 2021 there was not a single failure of the school authority to react to any such complaint. I'm going to add right away that I've been trying to gain some insight into what it's been like in the last six years, because maybe we've just come across a good year where only these four complaints have arisen. Well, within six years of such complaints, there were only 27, and they all met with a correct response, as expected. So you can't say I understand it was in the subtext. That law is the result of a lack of procedures to respond to specific situations that they report e.g. Parents.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u27	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question for Senator Zdrojewski. During the speech of the president, Senator Wind, I began to have doubts when he said that this law was needed and he spoke as chairman of the committee. Please provide very precise information as to the position of the joint committees, as was the result of the vote on the positive or negative opinion of this project and what synthetically the Senators were guided by, taking such or other positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The arguments that led us to vote against this law were generally very much. The most important are the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. I mentioned some of them, but due to time I did not mention all the ones that are most important. In the vote we proposed to reject this law, with the advantage of one vote. What is most important and what is worth pointing out are these thesis that appeared in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and which have been repeated What's really important? In the opinion of Prof. Ryszard Piotrowski, commissioned by the Union of Polish Metropolises. The thesis that was most important are the following. Firstly, limiting the capacity of local authorities to perform a significant part of public tasks. Mr. Piotrowski wasn't here to play delicately. It concluded that these provisions were incompatible with both the preamble and the article. 1, Article 5, Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. Secondly, this law infringes the rule of law on the constitutional right of citizens to learn. Third, it is incompatible with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 and paragraph 3. 4 the European Charter for Territorial Self-Government. Let me remind you that this is a card drawn up on 16 October 1985, as I remember, ratified in 1994 by Poland. And another thing: the unlawful deprivation of parental advice influences the taking up of activities in a school or institution by associations and other organisations whose statutory purpose is educational activity. Those were the most important elements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u31	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to, because I've been replaced by Senator Kwiatkowski...]] But, Senator, you will have this opportunity because there will be questions for you. Then you can... [[But Senator Kwiatkowski used my name.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, you'll have the opportunity to refer to this...]] [[But I wasn't quoting Senator Wind, I just said I started having second thoughts after his...]] [[Mr. Senator, you've done this very perversely and dishonestly, and you've presented the situation...]] Mr. Senator... [[...in a bad light.]] [[The voice from the hall: Well, so what?]] Gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Senator Wind and Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, I have not given you the floor. [[Yes.]] Please... [[Mr. Marshal, you will not give me the floor, although according to the rules of procedure...]] No, I'm not giving you the floor. You'll have the opportunity... [[... should you give me this vote?]] [[No.]] You are the rapporteur, so you will have the opportunity in your speech... [[My name has been mentioned, and the rules allow me to speak in such situations.]] [[Voice from the room: But it's not now, Senator.]] [[But you don't talk in the middle, you just...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Kwiatkowski asked Senator Zdrojewski... He said that since the rapporteur Kazimierz Wind said that the bill was needed very much, he, Senator Kwiatkowski, asks Senator Zdrojewski what was the result of the vote. Well, I would like to say, Mr Senator, that the question was perverse, because I, in my speech, have twice quoted this result of the vote. And your question made my person look bad, like I was trying to manipulate that nine people were in favor, eight were against it. But I think it was the other way around. Come on, Mr. Senator, you're welcome... [[But I didn't use the word "manipulation."]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u33	Gentlemen! Would Senator Kwiatkowski like to make a corrigendum? [[Yes, I want to correct.]] Therefore, Senator Wind, there will be a correction for the correction. I take it you'll correct it later, too? Are you gonna finish the corrigendum? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u34	In the correction mode, I would like to repeat that I did not use the word "manipulation," so the correction of Senator Wind is unfounded.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u35	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u36	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Zdrojewski. At such an important meeting And that'll also be a question for the marshal. There is no current Minister Czarnek. With all due respect to the Vice Minister. Did Minister Czarnek appear in this debate?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u37	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u38	No, he didn't show up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u40	Next question, right away... Can I ask the next one right away? Because I have a few questions for Mr. Zdrojewski. [[If you can fit in a minute, go ahead.]] I'll fit in. Next question: in the course of discussing the role of curators, which is, of course, being judged negatively, was the conversation about the event that took place in Krakow, where your curator Nowak said... I'm talking about the situation that the Minister of Health asked for your parole officer Nowak to resign. And will Minister Czarnek do his duty? 'Cause this lady can also give an opinion about the theater performances without watching... And with influence on students and directors, he gives his opinion. Was this subject discussed? 'Cause that's what's bothering the people of my town.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u41	He was mostly raised by the curators themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u42	Mr. Senator, all the questions please... Do you have any more? [[Yeah, but I need answers, and then I can ask you one more question.]] No, no, Mr. Senator, you have a minute to ask questions. Take advantage of it. And I'm writing you down because you're already out of time. [[Sign me up for the next question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u43	I'd like to stress that... [[There you go.]] ...in discussing this bill, we have actually raised the problem of curators, in two contexts. I want to be strict here about this discussion. When it comes to the history of the curators, the history of this function, the nice history... the curators, as guardians, have been the bodies that supported the education process for years. And it's come to my attention. And that's exactly what I remember. Unfortunately, today we have a situation in which we have left this beautiful card. No examples have been given, e.g. Madam curator from Krakow, however, we have clearly indicated that we are dealing with a situation in which we must remember that schools belong to various institutions, local authorities: wojts, mayors, presidents. These have different IDs or no IDs. Curators in turn belong... and have one card: the current power camp. As a result, concerns about the fact that the shift of responsibility and competence to guardians with party cards can actually lead to negative phenomena that Senator Błucher referred to above all, quoting all those who took part in the debate at the meeting of the local government committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u44	Thank you. Senator Magdalena Bladder... [[Voice from the hall: Lover.]] I'm sorry. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, life is rushing. The requirements of life change, the tools we use change. The school must not only keep up, but also sometimes overtake certain things. 20, 30 years ago, the teacher and the textbook were a source of information, a source of knowledge for the student. Today, the teacher must be a guide to the flooding children and young people's information, he must teach them to be critical of their knowledge and information, and he must teach them to be independent in thinking. Is this reform even one millimeter closer to an idea of education that does not provide knowledge, and a guide to a difficult world becomes a teacher?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u46	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u47	This is de. In fact, the most important question, because every bill should be accompanied by such an intention to record progress in this matter. I will use the opinion of Professor Talker to answer quite precisely the intention of this question. Well, he said that first of all, we need to restore the proper meaning of these basic words. And that's the role of school, law, justice, sensitivity, etc. And secondly, it is important that in this triangle of responsibility for education, the student is first, then the parent, the teacher, and finally Minister Czarnek, the curator before him, and not the other way around. At the top of the line of responsibility, the minister can't stand, because the school, in short, will die. The third element: inclusion should dominate, not exclusion. In my opinion, the last six years of child abuse are about exclusion, not inclusion. Further: cooperation, and not the independence of the school, should be taught to cooperate, not merely to accept various recommendations. Freedom, not censorship, freedom at school in the teaching process is well defined and can be well defined. decentralisation instead of an all-embracing country, especially in such sensitive competences. Sensitivity, not roughness. What does education need? Let me briefly say: oxygen, freedom and peace. Definitely not reform. It needs: deideologisation; reduction of bureaucracy; distance to the current political life, especially this party; respect; trust; adequate teacher salaries; empathy and tolerance. And these are the most important elements that education needs. And finally, today school and reform must anticipate 2025, 2026 and not go back to the 20th century, and we go back. Instead of precipitating technological development, the necessary knowledge in the field of ecology, the necessary knowledge in the field of medicine, the law, today you can say, looking at all the further reforms that our school is shifting back education to the past and very strongly so. And one last thing. I very much pay attention to the fact that in education we also look at what is outside to prepare children as soon as possible to receive too much information and choose, the ability to distinguish between true and false information. We have today used a matrix in which both children and teachers are incapacitated to some extent. Threats dominate instead of a trial, in short, democratic dialogue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u48	Thank you. Now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, by chance, to Senator Zdrojewski as a representative of a group of senators who were in most cases then and requested that the bill be rejected in its entirety. It's just a Senate nuclear weapon. This proposal doesn't settle anything, it doesn't improve anything, it just cuts off the discussion on the case. The question is: why? I do not ask substantively about the rules which, according to you, are wrong, because this is a matter of judgment. We'll probably talk about it in the discussion. I'm asking you why you didn't use the form of the amendments. There's probably 16 changes in total, five of which are sensitive, so I'd say. They could be quietly prepared from the text, transitional provisions with the supposedly bad ones excluded... [[Timer signal]] ...and implement those rules that are good. The simplest of these rules is the provision for increasing... the issue of bringing children through municipalities, allowing students... [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much.]] I'm talking about individual teaching, the need for individual teaching, also remote teaching, etc. [[Mr. Senator...]] We'll take care of it. Why didn't you leave those good rules behind? Why are you against your students?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u50	Mr. Senator, you're way out of time. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u51	I was wondering if I could prepare a specific set of amendments that would improve this bill, but I have to say that on this intellectual task, in short, I have fallen. Why? Because bad things, those records that should never appear in life, dominated so much that I thought that this task was impossible. There's another reason. Indeed, the possibility of starting remote learning not only during a pandemic, which is what you mentioned... It can be introduced, but it doesn't burn here. It is not so urgent that this must be done in these extremely difficult, adverse conditions. You can do it in God's way, easy. Why don't you take the initiative to introduce such records? I'm sure I'll support them. Generally speaking, I have not agreed with the government's philosophy of education for six years. I disagree. I do not agree with the decision to liquidate junior high, I do not agree with the philosophy in which the state is more important than the citizen, I do not agree with the philosophy of domination of probation over the local government, because it is incompatible with the constitution, I do not agree with the consolidation of a very late stage of compulsory education. This is not the philosophy of the 21st century, the country responsible for raising the young generation. It's not a philosophy I can sign off on. We may differ politically, but in the records, in general, I would appeal for responsibility. This is about how the child will be prepared for the challenges of the 21st century. This bill is pulling us back. It's definitely pulling us back.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u52	Thank you. The list of people who came forward with questions to the senator was exhausted. Now, questions to the senator of the minority rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Wind. There you go. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u53	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Senator! You filed a motion to pass the bill without amendment. Tell me how you, being a senator who protects the law and the rule of law, can make such a request at the moment when I quote here The Act is incompatible with the Constitution. Education curator is a government authority and strengthening its role limits the activity of local government units, which violates the principle of decentralisation of public authority resulting inter alia. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 and 166 constitutions. There are a few other constitutional delicacies here. Tell me how you think of this, so that despite such allegations of the anti-constitutionality of the law, you would be kind enough to make a proposal to adopt this law without amendment. What are your motivations? Well, we make the law and the constitution applies to us. [[Timer signal]] One minute, Mr. Marshal. Perfect.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u54	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the Constitutional Tribunal has been the Constitutional Tribunal since it was declared compatible with the Constitution... [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the charge of unconstitutionality is made by the total opposition on the occasion of most laws, so I am not surprised at all. And the question I'm asking is, what I think is that... it's infantile. And maybe that's where I'd end up. At the same time... Mr. Kwiatkowski unfortunately left, but Mr. Marshal suggested that in my answers to the questions, I refer to what Senator Kwiatkowski did here in relation to my person. I very much enjoyed the conclusion of Senator Kwiatkowski after my speech. He formulated it so that he didn't use the word "manipulation..." Yeah, but he was manipulating. That's what the opposition looks like. Great words fall, and life fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u56	Mr. Senator... [[Oh, the senator's back. I don't know if I should repeat...]] Mr. Senator, as part of the replica, you've already responded to this, and you're doing the same thing right now. You're just way beyond what the rapporteur should be doing. Thank you very much, sir. [[No more questions for me?]] If they were, I'd tell you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. And now Mr. Senator Bladder. Senator Halina Poor is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question about responsibility. Directors are responsible for the institution they run and are threatened with various sanctions if certain things are not taken care of. My question is yes. Was it mentioned at the committee's meeting that the curatoria, if by accident that law were to enter into force I hope it doesn't come to that. Will they be held responsible if they make the wrong decision? Was this mentioned at the committee meeting, the responsibility of the curators for the decisions taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u58	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Senator! There was no question that the probation officer would be responsible for such decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u60	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, please tell me whether during the discussion at the committee meeting it was very clear that the real threat posed by these changes was the reduction of access to knowledge and the constitutional guarantee of the right to science, knowledge and science, which is enriched by non-governmental organisations in schools, which could therefore discourage school heads from taking multiple and diverse initiatives in cooperation with these non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u62	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u63	Senator! High Izbo! Well, in several speeches, these issues were raised. In your speech, I believe your Vice President Wałbrzych, who said that the organs leading the task can handle it because they're gonna take extracurricular activities out of school... In this context I also said that I know many examples, I know many school heads practically all over Poland, not only in Kalisz, which I know very well, from all over Poland, who even claim to stop such extracurricular activities in schools, because why risk yourself, better to wait out, after all this time will not last forever. This is a threat. I think what I said at first was that someone could handle... A conscious lead organ, directors may take such action, but I think that the school of fear also active ones can stop for a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u64	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There's been a lot of talk about manipulation here today. Isn't it a manipulation by the authors of this law that, given that there are 20,000 schools in Poland Nearly 15,000 basics, and also high school and technology In the act, an association or organisation must present a detailed action plan at the school premises 2 months before the start of the classes... This plan needs to be presented to the parole board to get his approval. And we have to remember that with this amount of schools, it's over 1,300 schools per parole officer. Even if you count several organizations per school, isn't the intention of the legislator in practice just that And this is an example of extreme manipulation. So that those organizations that do not like curators and educational authority, throw behind the doors of the Polish school?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u66	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! At the committee meeting, which lasted more than four hours, as I said, these themes were being discussed. It has been pointed out that practically this is not possible. I did not mention here the representative of the students who also paid attention to the fact that they would not see it after 2 or 3 months of this decision, because they would forget about it after such a time. So that's definitely a limit, and it's really 100 percent, the ability of organizations that might not like it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u68	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u69	Thank you very much. Briefly. I'll show you the complete idiotism of this bill, but please answer me the question of whether or not it was mentioned. I actually come to the words here, to what Senator Kwiatkowski said. Take this situation: there is the director of the theatre, your curator does not like the presentation, she expresses her opinion, but the crowds come and the directors of individual schools in Cracow, and especially those who run schools with a humanistic profile, want to meet with him. These directors are already worried that this person might be noticed. And what happens when such a probation officer gets this kind of permission through the bill? This is shocking, as he presented, Mr President, the outcome of the meeting involving these 65 people. And we have to fight to ensure that this bill never comes into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. Here you go, 'cause there was a question: what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u71	Thank you very much. There was no question, and there is no direct answer to that question you asked the senator. But indeed, this climate of fear that is already in the school halls can block all initiatives. I'm sure those voices in the courtroom have been falling many times. So that these are fears, fears of the parents. A non-public education representative pointed out that when a parent sends a child to a non-public school where he pays for education, the first question he asks is, what kind of extracurricular activities are they going to be? Because he knows what a public school looks like, or he doesn't know, and he often doesn't know it at first, but in the case of a non-public school he wants to know, and on that condition he sends his children to such a school. And in this situation, which may happen after the introduction of this law, it may be absolutely impossible to make 100% confirm that such classes may take place in non-public schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u72	Thank you. Senator Margaret Kopiczko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u73	Mr. Senator, you used the phrase: parents' rights are restricted at school. I would like to ask: how are parents' rights restricted at school? And how is the activities of non-governmental organisations limited at school? Because that's what you used to say. I'd like to know what kind of school the atmosphere of fear is. I've got contact. with many schools, as a longtime headmaster and teacher of the school in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, and I have not met either by the directors or by teachers and parents with such an expression that there is an atmosphere of fear. Could you just tell me who told you what kind of school the atmosphere of fear is? [[Voice from the room: Examples.]] And give an example of a school, at least one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u74	Yes. Senator, I think a lot of... [[But starting with... I'd like to hear how parents' rights are restricted. If you could just...]] [[Voice from the hall: In every field.]] There was no question of how, but it was said that if the parent couldn't... Even if a parent can agree to an after-school course, but now he will be waiting two to three months for information about whether or not these classes will be or not, it is still a serious limitation of his role. Well, what's it gonna look like? The question was, what would happen when this bill came into force. As far as the atmosphere of fear is concerned, I think that here Senator Tyszkiewicz will say so, because he was also speaking as a senator at the committee meeting. However, the atmosphere of fear was spoken of. The atmosphere of fear... I mentioned that I talked to school heads who said they wouldn't do extracurricular activities if that bill came into force. They won't try to get such classes to be held in their schools. So that this atmosphere of fear is already as if in advance. Also city vice presidents said there was something like this in their schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u75	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u76	Mr. Senator, I have such an interesting question. I attended a committee meeting, so part of the answer to that question I already know, but maybe you know the second part of the answer. That's where it went. The question is, is one person, one parent... Maybe it's different. Can the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help carry out its activities in the school? The Minister replied that he could. And someone asked the question: and if one parent, one in the whole school, opposes the organization of some activities of the Christmas Help Orchestra, will she be able to do business in this school or not? The answer was no. In short, one person can block the best initiative in the school. And I have a question: can one parent cause them not to have a play on the school grounds? I've often been a part of the pageant. If one parent in the school will be able to block entry into the area after this law has entered into force... [[Timer signal]] ...Schools of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help... [[Timer signal]] ...then will one parent also be able to block the organization of the festivals at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u77	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm not gonna answer that question, because it wasn't really a matter of fact at the committee meeting. However, I know where you're going with this. If... [[I'll ask the Minister.]] ...you're gonna ask the Minister, I think we're gonna have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u79	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Dariusz Piontkowski wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome. Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was prepared for months. The senators pointed to the work that had been going on for months. I think that after the reports it is worth adding a few sentences on what this law really concerns, because listening to the Senators of the rapporteurs, I sometimes felt that they were talking about a completely different law. The first point: it must be made clear that a large proportion of the provisions of this law concern matters of military preparation classes, which you have not even mentioned at all. These are matters concerning recruitment, appointment of these branches, supervision of the functioning of these branches in schools. These are competences related to the actions of the Minister for National Defence, which are quite important in changing the way these troops operate. The second element, which you have not mentioned at all and which is also present in this law, concerns artistic schools. So far, practice has shown that artistic schools are being created, but they actually operate outside the existing law, outside the regulations, and they had to be regulated. So there's a lot of legislation that tells us how these subsidiaries can be formed, how many of them can be, what kind of supervision they're going to be under. You have not even mentioned in one word that such regulations are in this law. Another part of the legislation you haven't even mentioned... Although no, I'm sorry, you mentioned that, but they considered it irrelevant and need not be regulated at the moment. These provisions apply to distance learning in exceptional situations. At the moment, the school principal, if there was a disaster, a storm, a rain that would prevent stationed school from going to the school building, there's really no way of introducing distance teaching. We're introducing this possibility. It seems that this is quite urgent to do, because we do not really know when in this variable weather there will be some misfortune in one educational building and when it will be necessary to respond to this situation. Similarly, we suggest that we allow distance classes in hospital schools, one of the senators asked about hospital schools. Or in the case of individual teaching, when the child is unable to attend school for many weeks. Then it seems that for health reasons it is also worth taking advantage of the technological opportunities that already exist today, and it would be good to introduce distance learning. Failure to adopt this law will prevent the introduction of such provisions. We clearly point out that such remote teaching will take place at the request of parents, and will not be organised against their will. The following element, which you have not even mentioned, concerns clarification of what textbooks are. We have dealt with situations where scripts have been tried to introduce as textbooks for teaching, and yet the textbook should perform a much broader function than just such material preparing for the exam. The next element, which meets the expectations of local authorities and, as you have not even mentioned in a word, concerns the adaptation of preschool units in school buildings to the requirements of fire protection. We extend, at the request of local authorities, for a further 2 years the time limit for adapting these spaces to the requirements of fire protection. Seems like it's a case. It is quite urgent, because in a few months' time some local governments may come across a situation where they simply have to liquidate the pre-school branches that have functioned and provided care for the youngest children. We are also introducing new responsibilities in the educational information system, so as to provide more information about children, about special educational needs, in order to better secure them in the future. You have not mentioned at all the slightly changed rules for the assessment of organisational sheets. Here, among others. We introduce an obligation for the school principal to present to the pedagogical board an organisation sheet for the following year. Although this obligation is already in place today, many school heads have unfortunately failed to do so. We simply write in the bill that such an obligation exists and the school principal will be forced to respect it. As I understand it, the state does not mind if teachers know what will be waiting for them in a few months' time, whether they will be able to work in a given school, what subjects and how many classes will work. The next element, which you have talked about quite a lot, concerns the activities conducted by associations and other organisations. I have the impression that some of you, speaking on this subject, did not want to look into the provisions of the law. They're clearly talking about classes run by these organizations. Here is the question from the senator whether one parent is able to block, for example. ♪ ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ ♪ Jelly ♪ I think that's what you said in your example. Be one of the organizations. We are clearly talking about classes, not just presence. After all, the songs are most often organized, I understand, with the help of a teacher who prepares the students. He's preparing them for this class, so I can't imagine any parent protesting against the activities of the teacher himself in such a situation. Well, I don't know why it's such an example. We are talking about non-governmental activities. Today, the rules regulate it in such a way that... I'm abstracting from the bill we're talking about right now. Today, the school principal, after consulting the parents' advice or the school board, consents to the functioning of the school organisation. So even today, there's no rule that any organization can go into school whenever they want and do the kind of activities they want. Unfortunately, there are different practices in this area. We've been getting these signals. Several months ago, a campaign was carried out to protect children!A few hundred schools asked about the principles of non-governmental organisations entering schools and conducting classes. It turned out that there was no procedure in more than half of the situation. The principal sometimes didn't even know that such an organization went into school and conducted classes, and even more so, there was no opinion of the parents' council. So something had to be done to regulate the entry of these organizations, the more that our parents applied to us. We received several thousand signatures under the proposal to regulate the entry of non-governmental organisations into schools and what they propose in children's classes. Often it turned out that under the general slogans, very beautifully sounding, there were completely different contents. And parents were often helpless towards those organisations and local authorities that supported such NGOs and helped them to enter schools. Representatives of parts of these units of the local government spoke at a committee meeting. It was they who largely led to the fact that the bill had appeared. In a situation where the president of the city even commands the directors to allow organisations that offer some kind of activity without even obtaining parental advice on this matter, we are actually talking about actions contrary to applicable law. Some of these votes against the bill are the votes of those local authorities who simply did not comply with the law, and today they are surprised that there are rules that we are trying to regulate. You mentioned something about restricting the rights of parents and the right of a child to learn. But how can we make such a charge against a law in which we increase our parents' knowledge of what classes their children may possibly attend? After all, we are introducing a new obligation of NGOs in this law. We're making it clear that we're doing this. this is the obligation: you have to present a timetable and show the materials that will be used in these classes, so that the parent, deciding whether or not his child will participate in the classes, will be aware of what classes he will be taking. She's supposed to send this baby. In order to broaden parents' knowledge of these activities, the provision on the probation officer's opinion is also used. The state didn't notice it at all, but in the bill we made it clear that the parole officer's opinion... It's not gonna be an opinion on what. The curator shall make a clear reference to the provisions of the Article. 1 educational law, to points 1 and 3, 5, 14 and 21. What are these points about? One law of education? They say that the curator is to verify whether every citizen of the Republic of Poland's right to education is being exercised and that children and young people are entitled to education and care, suitable for their age and development. Is there anything wrong with requiring such an opinion to appear? The curator will also check whether it supports the educational function of the school, whether it is in line with the education understood as supporting the child in the development towards full maturity in the physical, emotional, intellectual, spiritual and social spheres, often reinforced and supplemented by measures to prevent the problems of children and young people. Or the curator will check whether this is tailored to the content, methods and organization of teaching, to the psychophysical capabilities of the students. Is there anything wrong with having a probation officer give an opinion that the parent will know that his child, when he goes to classes organized by some organization that wants to go to school, will participate in classes suitable to the age of the child and to his psychophysical abilities? Is there something wrong with that? In the end, according to the provisions of the Act, the parent will decide whether his child, even with positive opinions of the parents' council, the school board and the student's positive opinion, and the agreement of the school head to allow classes to be held in this school... Eventually, the parent will sign it in the case of a minor student to decide whether he will participate in these classes. According to the draft law, he only acquires additional knowledge about how these classes are to be carried out and what they will concern. Is this a limitation on the parenting function? On the contrary, we believe that it is to give more information to parents so that they are fully conscious of such decisions. There are no multi-month procedures here, because it seems obvious to us that an organization that wants to teach underage or adult students should have an action plan, know what it wants to do in this school, and not just make proposals every day. The probation officer's opinion is to be included during the two-month period during which the school principal makes the final decision on whether or not to allow the organisation concerned to operate at school. The curator has a month to express his opinion within these 2 months. If he does not express his opinion, the opinion is supposed to be positive. From this procedure we have excluded scouting organisations which are in educational law and already treated in a special way, so they can conduct classes on a slightly different basis. We see nothing wrong with the fact that scouts' organizations operate in school, we do not apply any additional requirements to them. When it comes to probation over what's going on at school, it looks like this. Today, in educational law, there is clearly a kind of duality of supervision over what is happening in schools. On the one hand, we have leading bodies, in most cases the state means local authorities, who supervise the functioning of schools in terms of administrative and financial aspects. Some of you, quoting the opinions of the committee's meeting, resented that we wanted to narrow the field of action of the local government to this financial and organisational sphere. But this is how the law works today, and it's been working for decades. I have not heard that you believe that it is necessary to broaden the competences of the local government and give it e.g. the right to freely shape the software bases. Today, the curriculum bases are proposed by the Ministry of Education, and the Curator of Education, in accordance with the current law, does not change this law, but oversees what is happening in schools in terms of teaching, education and caring. We don't change that. We are merely giving the opportunity of a curator or other specialist supervisory unit, such is the case in the case of artistic schools or schools run by ministers, so that they can respond to any irregularities. I have not noticed that any of your senators resent the fact that today the mayor or mayor of the city may, in a special situation, fire the school principal without notice during the school year. None of the senators, none of your senators, have protested such solutions. As I understand it, the local government makes such a decision if it sees irregularities in the organizational and financial sphere. What if there are irregularities, violations of the law, child safety risks, misdirection in educational, teaching matters? Then the probation officer is not really able to react if the school principal is not responsible. Fortunately, in the overwhelming majority of accidents, directors are responsible. But there are isolated situations where the headmaster doesn't respond to recommendations. And what are the recommendations? The curator's recommendations indicate that educational law in a given educational institution is not respected, for example. It's not... [[Two ways...]] ...a implemented educational program that is not implemented the basics of the program, that the safety of the child is at risk. And doesn't the probation officer have the right to react in such a situation? Most directors implement these recommendations or explain why they are unable to implement them at a given time or what steps they will take to eliminate the unlawfulness. What if the director shows up who doesn't? The parole officer is helpless then. And we're gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Constitution...]] We therefore propose similar powers as the mayor or the president today, which is to give the curator the opportunity to present, in an emergency situation, for the director to be dismissed. [[But what right?]] The same law he has today... Senator, listen to me again. We have 2 types of supervision of what is happening at school and none of you questioned it, i.e. a local authority that supervises in terms of financial, organizational and guardianship, which supervises in terms of teaching, education and care. None of you questioned the duality of school supervision. And when we're trying to give the probation officer the authority to respond to irregularities, just like the mayor or the president can do today, you think the mayor, mayor or president can cancel the director, but the probation officer can't. And from the parent's point of view... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, I believe that from the parent's point of view, education, teaching and caring function of the school is much more important than administrative or financial. I would say, today as a grandfather, not as a parent, that I would prefer it to be for teaching or educational reasons that intervention can be made, not for organizational and financial reasons. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is not a violation of the powers of the local government, because it is a right, a possible probation officer's right will apply to the teaching, educational and caring sphere, not to the organizational and financial sphere. This law does not in any way deprive the local government of its powers. You mentioned the assessment of the school head, saying that today the curator will not give the grade or only give negative assessments. What is the legal situation today? Today, the evaluation of the head of the school or the institution is given jointly, in agreement, by the host body and by the supervisory authority. And we have, unfortunately, sometimes a situation where both of these organs can't communicate with each other. And then the current director, without having an up-to-date evaluation of the work, cannot take part in a competition that will be held in a few or several months. Do you think this is a good solution? This was indicated, among others. School heads, trade unionists, saying that this situation needs to be settled. And we propose that, in situations like this, when both organs are unable to communicate with one another, the final evaluation should be given by the education curator. Is there something wrong with that? We assume that the educational, educational and caring function is more important than the organisational and financial function. This bill, contrary to what some of your senators have tried to suggest, does not create an atmosphere of fear. I had the impression that the atmosphere of fear was trying to introduce certain authorities of the local government, misunderstood what was written in this bill. Is greater politicisation today, for example. Is the fact that we want to enable the curator to respond to school violations, or is it more political for the school to send letters by the presidents of the cities, in which they clearly evaluate what is happening in national politics and in the draft laws that are intended to apply to education? Do you want to bring about today the elimination of any pedagogical, educational, teaching supervision from schools at all? Because listening to your voices, I had the impression that you would like to give full supervision of the school into the hands of local governments, and today most local governments do not have the authority or the power to do so. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: What do you mean there isn't?]] As long as I can understand that maybe big cities would be able to hire additional officials... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...how do you imagine a small community of 2,3,000 people, where there are dozens of officials dealing with similar matters, with similar competences as in a huge city, who would still oversee the educational, educational functioning of what is happening in schools? [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is no return to the past, Senator, because no one limits the autonomy of teachers. There is no provision in the bill that says that the teacher does not have the freedom to choose working methods with students. He is still free to choose teaching materials, still free to choose a textbook, still free to choose a curriculum. In no way is the teacher's autonomy restricted. The State simply did not want, as I understand it, to read the bill and try to overinterpret what is in this law. Indeed, a large number of those involved in the discussion tried to create an atmosphere of fear. I can agree with that if you form it that way. However, there is no atmosphere of fear in the bill. We do not in any way violate the freedom of teachers to shape students into good citizens, prepared for the challenges of the future. One thing I'm sure I'll agree with, and that is, it seems obvious: the school educates people to a certain future, to challenges that we are not fully aware of today, because those who start education today will not be able to live until a few or a dozen years later. Today we do not know exactly what challenges they will face. The changes made by Minister Zalewska also meet your expectations because... [[Voices from the room: What? No...]] ...because... [[Voices from the hall: No, no...]] I could have commented in the back, too, but I'm trying not to... [[Minister, Minister, don't argue with the room.]] But in the bill... [[Just say what you have to say.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, that's a good point indeed, a good point. [[Thank you.]] I would like to point out clearly that the changes made by Mrs Zalewska in the basis of the programme put a very clear emphasis, for example, on the independence of thinking, on criticism, on the consideration of particular events, elements of the programme from different points of view. And we're not changing anything on the program basis, contrary to what some have suggested. Those records relating to criticism, the so-called. basic skills, as often defined, remain, are very important. Same technologically. God forbid! We don't take schools back to the 20th or 19th century. We are clearly in the last steps... But they are not described in the Act, because the Act in this respect It doesn't change anything. There are still provisions on the use of the latest technological tools during the teaching process. The epidemic has, unfortunately, forced us to do so, they are used on a much larger scale than we would like. Other government activities. Total use in recent months of over a billion PLN for school equipment Although this is the task of self-governments, leading bodies... And somehow I didn't notice that you were protesting at the moment and thought that the state was restricting local governments, taking away their constitutional rights and their own responsibilities. We helped the local government by supplying the school. Remote school, Remote school, National Education Network, Active Table, National Programme for the Development of Reading, Laboratory of the Future And that's another billion-dollar program... Here is the money that allows local governments to equip schools with electronic equipment, they can equip the workshops concerned, new classes put into service. But somehow I didn't see you protesting against actions that partly fall within the competence of the local government. We consider this to be state aid when a more difficult situation arises. The epidemic was clearly such a difficult situation. We do not withdraw, contrary to the suggestions of the senators, the school until the 20th century, we try to ensure that the school is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century and today. It was thanks to the money from the state budget in many schools that equipment was purchased, which enabled not only the use of remote teaching, but also the renewal of computer studios, the equipment of the studios concerned with modern objects and devices that allow not only theoretical, but also practically to gain knowledge, especially from natural objects. I therefore encourage the senators to express a positive opinion on this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u81	Thank you, Minister. Now the senators can report a question to the Minister from a place that lasts no more than a minute. And you were the first Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to come forward. There you go. [[I'm removing myself from the question.]] Senator Wojciech Potato, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u82	Good morning. Thank you. Minister, about the atmosphere of fear. Maybe it's an introduction first. In the current programme basis of the subject, knowledge about society is among others. such issues which concern us, senators and Members. This is e.g. the structure and organisation of Parliament's work, the status of Member and Senator, the powers of the Sejm and the Senate. There are also issues concerning the position and competence of the President, the Council of Ministers, other state bodies or even the activities and competences of local governments of different levels. Each of us has parliamentary and often self-government experience. I have a question: can I, as a senator, be invited to school to learn about society? I recently experienced a refusal by the school headmaster who was afraid to invite me, and he was afraid that I would pursue politics. Why would he do that? Because he was scared. I wasn't allowed in. Next question. Why does every local government have to pay for education subsidies? There is no local government in Poland that does not pay. À speaking of the third... [[Timer signal]] About Mrs. Zalewska. The worst thing was the thing Mrs Zalewska did. She took out middle school. I was a junior high principal, and I know what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u83	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u84	Now, Mr. Marshal, one at a time. There's nothing in the bill about software bases. Mr. Senator was gracious to mention the revision of the regulation on the basis of the programme, which introduces a new subject of history and the present instead of knowledge of society. There's no word in the bill, but I'd like to reassure the senator. Also on this new subject will be issues related to the functioning of the legislative authority in Poland, as well as the local government. Why j.s.t. Does he have to pay for the subsidies? There is not even an opinion on this subject in the bill either. I would like to remind you that this also functioned during the period of the governments of the PO PSL. The legislation in Poland clearly states that the financing of educational tasks is carried out through the income of local governments. Self-government income includes own income, participation in taxes and education subsidies. Education subsidy is only one of several sources of funding for education. The laws clearly indicate that education grants do not cover pre-school tasks, and that local governments, counting the costs of educational tasks, often include pre-school tasks. That's the answer, at least partial, to your question. It is worth adding that in the last few years education subsidies have increased by 30 percent. In 2016, the subsidy amounted to less than PLN 40 billion, and in the Budget Act for 2022 there is more than PLN 53 billion. Eliminating middle school. Of course, there is not a single sentence in the bill. We may differ in opinions. I'm just going to tell you that the introduction of middle school and the programme changes that involved this led to students finishing a systematic history lecture, but not just history, other subjects, at the first grade of upper secondary school, and the last two years of high school education have been devoted only to specializations. Other subjects were not systematically taught. Against such solutions I don't know if you remember. A few years ago, there was protest and even starvation. Then the PO government PSL was deaf to such voices. We're... sorry, not today. When Minister Zalewska carried out organizational changes, she led to the return to 8 years of elementary school. Similar solutions are also available in other European countries. [[Voice from the room: Belarus.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: Belarus.]] No, sir. Also in other European countries. It is similar with school age. Some of you have also paid attention to this too. In Finland, an example of which you have cited here, the school obligation starts at the age of 7. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u86	I didn't get the answer. I mentioned knowledge of society because I wanted to expose that we are... I wanted to present this as best as possible. I didn't mean the show. I asked the question: why can't I be invited, why wasn't I invited, why is the director afraid?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u87	Otherwise, is the situation true?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u88	I'll say it again. The teacher is not obliged to invite a senator or a Member to learn about society, but he can do so. Let me repeat: we do not restrict the autonomy and freedom of teachers to implement the curriculum base. In no provision of the Act, we do not restrict the freedom of the teacher to implement the programme base. [[I'll add: the principal wouldn't let the teacher let me into school.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u89	Mr. Senator, of course this is a matter for the intervention of the Senate Marshal. I think it's illegal. Although there was no question for me, but I will say that the problem is, of course, and we're afraid it will be. Mr... Oh, it's me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay, now me. Minister, two questions. In those principles on which you rely, spiritual development is involved in those who may be allowed to engage in activities. I would understand because I would know the definition if it were intellectual development. Tell me what the definition of spiritual development is. Because it's in the bill as one of the criteria. And tell me, too... Because you said that the subsidy had increased, but tell me how between 2016 and 2022 the percentage ratio of subsidies to education expenditure that local governments are required to make. In the latter case, if you can't answer right now, please answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u90	Mr. Marshal, when it comes to subsidies and educational expenditure, this must also be compared with other self-government revenues. Please bear in mind that education expenses are made, among others. from own income and from participation in taxes. So if you need a broader answer, of course I will make this data available, but now I will clearly point out that, for example, PIT and CIT revenues have increased by 30 or even 40% in recent years. It is not possible to separate only the expenditure on educational tasks, abstracting from the revenue of the local government. [[Okay...]] But we'll answer in writing. [[It's a written answer, isn't it? Good.]] And as for this spiritual development... [[Yes, the definition of spiritual development.]] Mr. Marshal, I just want to remind you that we're not changing anything here. I quoted the current wording of the article. 1 educational law, which we do not change, we just say that the guardian's opinion must refer to it. I'll read the record of the current article again. 1 educational law: education understood as supporting the child in the development of full maturity in the physical, emotional, intellectual, spiritual and social sphere, reinforced and supplemented by prevention measures for children and young people. We don't change the record of this piece of educational law. We're just saying that the parole officer, giving an opinion, among other things. the current rules must apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I don't know how you got the idea that the senators didn't read the entire bill, but I understand that the minister has read the experts' opinions about this bill. And I would like to ask the Minister to refer to these opinions. This is the first case. With particular regard to what you're talking about. I don't question that you can create such a situation that a school principal can fire a supervisor or a probation officer. It's just that this, Minister, must be in line with the constitution. These experts raise the issue of constitutional compliance. I'd like you to take that into account. That's the first question. Two. Minister, I understand that some schools, or actually school management, have not responded correctly to the various phenomena, hence the help of the probation officer. And please tell me who will supervise the probation officer when the probation officer is a person who makes the same mistakes. What's the principal's name? [[Timer signal]] Will there be special supervision of the probation officer? Those two questions so far. I have more questions, but it's in the next round. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u93	Thank you very much. I remind you there's a minute, and I will respect that very much. You have one minute to ask questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u94	I'm gonna start with that second question. I will say this: it is the same supervision as the decision of the governing body, i.e. the head of the school may appeal to the court if it does not agree with the decision of the local government or If we adopt this act, the curator on the appeal from the director's office. [[But who's gonna supervise the parole officer?]] [[Please don't yell, Senator.]] I repeat, one of the court's oversights. Today I can also ask the senator: who oversees the mayor, mayor or the president of the city if he decides to cancel the school director? There's no... The only oversight is judicial supervision. This is judicial supervision. And so it will be if there is a special situation. In my opinion, these situations will be individual, exceptional situations, not like this. Contrary to what some suggested That suddenly all the directors will be called off. In exceptional cases, if the Director disagrees with such a decision by the curator or the managing authority, he shall have the right to appeal to the court and shall not be deprived of that right. Mr. Senator mentioned that these are opinions. As long as opinions are not an act of law, they are only opinions. I disagree with those opinions. One of the senators mentioned the opinion of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which does not see any constitutional delicacies there, and according to Polish law, the Constitutional Tribunal decides on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u96	Minister, three short questions: 1 will be longer and 2 will be short. About the constitution... Maybe it's different. Minister, local government... What percentage, when it comes to the Warsaw government, when it comes to subsidies... Maybe it's different. Does the grant cover teachers' wages? Say, let's say, modeling on what it looks like in Warsaw. That's the first question. And the second question I started earlier, and now I'd like to finish it. Deputy Minister Romankowski said that 1 person, 1 parent can block conducting classes on the school premises. It was about whether WYŚP could enter the school grounds and conduct classes. Class. I'm comparing it to a pageant. Here, too, there is a teacher who also teaches classes, prepares theatres, there are children, there are classes. I've been in this kind of music a lot. And my question is this: As if it were similar to the statements of the Vice Minister of Rome. Here's the thing: if one parent at school will be able to block the organization of the javelin, since one parent can block the... [[Timer signal]] ...organizing activities related to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help or any other activities? Maybe or maybe not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u98	I have already partially answered that question. In my opinion, Senator, absolutely 1 parent cannot block the organisation of any activities. He can... [[I'm sorry. So the Roman minister lied?]] I don't know. I didn't hear that expression. I'm just hearing your interpretation of that statement. In my opinion, neither in the current legal state nor in the legal state which will introduce this bill, 1 parent will not be able to block the organisation of classes by any non-governmental organization or association. This parent will have the right not to take part in classes organized by any association or organization. [[It's okay, Minister. I'm just gonna quote.]] Well, then I'm glad we agree. [[Let me quote: Yes, of course, the staff of WYŚP will have to get permission from all parents. The answer to that question...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[One parent can block it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u99	Excuse me. Mr. Senator, we have regulations. I would very much ask that the Minister, when answering questions, do not break this formula, because if you encourage me to argue with you in such a... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: But I do not encourage. I'm just trying to answer my opinion on this.]] I'd really like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u100	I don't think he can block it. As far as education subsidies are concerned, it also covers teachers' wages in the vast majority of local governments. If this is about how it is with Warsaw, I won't answer, I have to check... [[50%.]] I'll answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. And we note that you are willing to answer some of the questions in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: Of course.]] I ask you to ask Senator Janusz Gromek's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u102	Minister, if you want to get into HR business that deep, I have a question. For some time now, the Ministry has been told to take over completely the issues of teachers, in terms of employment, wages, etc., etc. That's one thing. Second thing. The Lord points out to us that not all of us have been thoroughly acquainted with the Act. And maybe that's the truth. But at the council committee meeting, almost 30 votes were cast, and I'm sure the majority took note of the bill. Why did everyone, according to those 29 votes, have a negative opinion? And as principal of the school... Because you, Minister, were also the principal of the school, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: No.]] No? Excuse me... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: But I worked in education for over 20 years.]] Good. I had a meeting with the teachers, with the principals. Why do they have these fears too? Here's what I'm gonna say. I'm not gonna say that, like, in the anti-educational box, because you have to adjust, but there are concerns about who you're gonna... [[Timer signal]] ...we're going to have directors. And one last question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have you consulted corporations such as the Polish City Union, the Polish Districts Union, the Union of Voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u103	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u104	The senator's asking me why some people are for or against a bill. You might as well ask why someone belongs to one or another political party or has such views rather than others. It seems to me that a large part of these opinions resulted from a political attitude rather than a reading of the actual provisions of the Act. That's my opinion, of course you might disagree with her. Who do we think we're gonna have as principal of the school? The bill in this case doesn't really change anything. Well, it only changes in one element, I think one of your senators has noticed that. The head of the school is still appointed as a result of the competition and the composition of the competition committee we do not change Except for one exception. Well, we give the opportunity for representatives of the governing body to be a councilman of the Sejm, county, city or commune. And that's the only change in the contest committee. And who are they gonna pick as school heads? That's a question for the competition committee. Now to take over the employment and pay of teachers, because, I understand, that's what this was all about. At the moment, there is no bill that would change this situation and the relationship between government and state authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The other side keeps trying to suffocate us that the only content of the bill is 2 or 3 selected articles. And I fight windmills all the time, there's no explanation. However, I would ask that the Minister briefly, but in a meaningful manner, explain, because perhaps we are being watched by parents or even adult students or young people who may lose what they may lose if this law does not come into force. And that's what the other side proposes, i.e. It's just to get her out of the legal system. What happens if their motion to reject the law in its entirety, God forbid it to pass? What, what rights? Three, four will be deprived?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u108	Thank you, Senator, for pointing out that this bill is much broader than just a matter of possible cancellation of the Director or of entering a non-governmental school. That is indeed the case, most of the provisions of the Act concern completely different matters. And, for example, artistic school students will not be able to study in the branch, under the applicable law there will be a problem with this. There will be no remote teaching in emergency situations; sick children in medical subjects will not be able to benefit from modern media and remote learning if requested by their parents. Parents will not have full knowledge of what programming proposals are being made by organisations in schools. Continuing to decide whether or not the child is going to attend classes, they will actually decide whether or not their child is going to attend the classes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u110	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question about remote teaching because my parents are asking me about it. Well, actually, there were two years of this remote teaching, and the last NIK report on this subject, showing... Well, in general, this fiasco is the result of the report on such a way of education. Wouldn't it be in your view that the provisions that are in this draft law should be deleted and simply put in place such regulations that there is no remote teaching unless there would be an extremely extraordinary situation and for some reason this should be introduced? I'm saying this because I'm getting a lot of signals in this area from my parents who are just sick of the remote stuff. Well, two years, actually three years was either a pandemic, or... there were teacher strikes before. Well, it's even said about a lost generation, so it's pretty radical thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u112	Mr. Senator, I would like to start by explaining that this bill does not introduce remote teaching as a rule to apply in all schools. According to your suggestion, the law provides that only in emergency situations will there be the possibility of introducing remote teaching. We do not want to allow a situation where, for example, The roof at school will be broken or the school will be flooded and you will not be able to conduct classes until there are some replacement rooms in which you can return to conducting classes in a standard, stationary formula. We do not want children and young people to lose a few, a dozen or more days of learning. The epidemic has shown that in an emergency situation, you can use modern technology to try to transfer knowledge and skills to your children. I agree with the senator and with the majority of those who express opinions that remote teaching is only a substitute for fixed learning and has a lot of shortcomings. There's full agreement about that. Not only Poland, but also other European countries do so. Therefore, during the epidemic, we also try to avoid situations where schools switch to remote teaching. This is an emergency. Mr. Senator, there's no rule in this bill that requires and facilitates the transition to remote learning. We only introduce them in emergency situations. We agree with your view that remote teaching is not the best option.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u113	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Jackowski to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u114	One more question about the influence of parents on content... i.e. the consent of parents, i.e. the exercise of the constitutional right to raise children according to their views and views. What is the practice of these activities in the current educational system, and what is now going to change precisely with regard to parents? Will parents have to approve in writing at some stage of this procedure, each individual, the consent to their child's participation in such activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u115	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u116	Today, the school principal agrees or does not agree to any non-governmental organization conducting classes for students. She has the opinion of her parents' council, i.e. the representation of her parents at school, and a single parent no longer has to express an opinion here. The amendment introduced by the law continues to leave the Director's hands with a final decision as to whether or not an organisation can operate on the premises of the school. We leave a positive opinion of the parents, but we also introduce the opinion of the curator, who, as I said, views the classes in terms of whether they are suitable for age, for the development of a psychophysical child, or are safe. The probation officer shall give a positive or negative opinion. If the opinion is negative, the school principal will not be able to allow the course to be conducted by the association or non-governmental organisation concerned. If this is a positive opinion, of course he will be able to give such consent. In the end, however, And it's a novum. The parent will give his consent in writing for his child to attend the classes. Without written consent, the child will not be able to attend the classes. An additional advantage of these provisions from the point of view of parents will be broad information on what the activities are planned, what materials the representatives of the organisation will use in classes, what content will be passed on to students, children. This is certainly an additional element of knowledge, thanks to which the parent will be able to consciously decide whether or not his child is to attend classes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. There's no more questions to ask, I see. Thank you very much, Minister. I inform you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick. I also remind all senators who want to enlist in the discussion that this is the opportunity right now. You're welcome, Senator. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the impact of lex Czarnek, the newly established law, on special education. Special education is related to the statement by the panel that the student requires a special organisation of science and working methods due to his or her health problems or intellectual dysfunction. This Decision shall enter The Supreme Audit Board has given a positive assessment of the functioning of schools in this area. Reform can only ruin it. Currently 71 000 students are subject to special education. The Audit Chamber has noted some shortcomings, such as poor completion of surveys, so-called. a multi-specialised assessment of the level of teaching and the individual educational and therapist programme. The remote teaching that Minister Piontkowski was talking about here poses even greater problems for these children than for healthy children. Today is February 4, this is World Cancer Day. That's why I took the floor that the parents of the children who are being taught by the hospital schools came to me. Once a child is discharged from the hospital, his individual education is continued at home. They addressed me in writing, as part of the Free School campaign, and signed here 20 different organizations, appealing for the rejection of the law in its entirety. And that's abstract of how it's gonna affect special schools. They emphasize what has already been said here: increasing the role of curators, dismissing directors by curators, dismissing individual teachers. They stress that the constitution has been violated, Art. 15, 156, 171 of the Constitution that this amendment introduces excessive bureaucracy and censors youth organisations. In fact, we have 2,000 47 special schools, which is 9.7%. all schools. There are 956 special schools, 386 professional schools, 538 training schools for work... As far as hospital schools are concerned, so far the principal of this school has made decisions with regard to children. This bill will change that. And I would like to remind you that hospital schools are not only educational but also therapeutic. That's where special educators work. It's just not right to meddle the probation officers with their work. Each child has an individual course of teaching, because each one is different, each one struggles for his or her own life differently. I'm talking about children with cancer, and I'm saying it from experience, from practice. I believe that the introduction of a new law at the moment In my opinion and in the opinion of the parents of children fighting for their lives He can just put those schools away. Many adverse changes have already been made. These schools have been mapped out, teachers run from one medical facility to another, while they should be attached to one facility and to their patients. Especially if they are cancer patients who come back, they go out for individual teaching home and come back to school. For me, all these proposed changes, probation, the fact that a director who's experienced in his job, and those directors who know how to treat sick children, is for a cure... I am absolutely against this law in its entirety. I could still read here a letter from the Polish Association for People with Intellectual Disabilities, which turned out to be... This letter was signed by the president of the board of directors. She writes here that the teachers of special schools have already been fooled in an incredible way, because their rates are much lower than... And in my opinion, in the opinion of the doctor, working with disabled children is certainly more difficult than working with healthy children. So let us take a summary of what this will bring to the children with whom I am in contact, namely to children with cancer, in general to sick children and children who are disabled. What will these laws bring them? Instead of working to better pay these teachers to improve the functioning of this, changes are being made that will spoil it all. I repeat once again: I am absolutely in favour of rejecting this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I will not give in to the kind of pressure that occasionally arises here to break out of the context of a particular law, focus only on it and not expand the area of responsibility that rests on us, in short. I believe, generally speaking, that this law must not be taken out of context, because it is part of a certain philosophy of governance, and I stress: the philosophy of governance in the area of education, in the area of education, especially the youngest generation. So this bill is neither a mistake nor an accidental proof of incompetence or arrogance. She is in the midst of certain events, i.e. she is part of some thinking about the state, including education. I have reviewed various rankings for many, many years, in which primary and secondary schools were evaluated, also higher. There's a lot of these rankings. The criteria are the most important. If we look at them, we will see clearly that Finland and Singapore, sometimes Switzerland and New Zealand, are the most frequent peaks. There's never Poland, there's never Poland. As far as our middle school is concerned, six years ago they were in the top five in Europe. But they've been wiped out. Getting a situation like this so that middle school, which I'll remind you, takes care of a young man at the most difficult moment of his life... It took years to work. I mentioned Finland. Please note that this most important reform of the education system in Finland took place 50 years ago. It was the '70s. And with us there are proposals for a new reform, proposals for new interference. But I want to go back to that philosophy, to the basic category I'm going to talk about. I want to make it clear that there are three elements that determine whether education is efficient, efficient, good from the student's point of view, but also from the state's point of view. The first rule is simple: the less countries, the less centralism, the more efficient education models are. The less bureaucracy, the less paperwork, the more conditions, the power of the state over the school, the more efficient the school is. The less supervision, security, conditions, the more efficient and efficient the school is. You're going in exactly the opposite direction: more government power, more supervision, more bureaucracy. The effect is obvious, that's the destruction of education. I sign every such opinion for each of your projects. It's kind of a whole thing. I don't take it out of context because I'm not allowed to do it, in short. I want today not as a senator rapporteur, but as a politician To say political responsibility. I know the history, I know the various hopes that were built in different countries, and I remember how it ended when these countries were going this way. And we're not just talking about eliminating middle school, which I mentioned earlier, and about delayed education. I agree that in these many fantastic educational systems education can start from the age of seven, this compulsory one, and in some cases it is not mandatory. But it's enough to see what's going on before, how quickly children are prepared to deal with these educational systems later. Today, this responsibility rests with local governments. And they can do it. The importance of scientific centres has been reduced. I'm already skipping all the failures that happened just before the pandemic of those centers that dealt with the viruses themselves, including the military. Giant negligence in the area of the financial condition of young researchers. This is the same area of responsibility. Young academics at universities think about their future destiny, they are simply badly rewarded. The famous case of the Zamość Academy and the appointment of the rector... As I recall, I believe you are Professor Paweł Skrzydlewski, the silent rector called without cameras. And then we already had a special project, to care for the virtues of the woman. After all, it's all in the public opinion, it's all in the sphere of influence. I'm ashamed, I'm really ashamed, even though I'm not the one doing this evil. I also remember these assessments when we were dealing with partitions, occupations, hostile takeovers of the state or responsibility for the state. It was then that the education of censorship, universal control, and then the primacy of the state over the programs, teachers, overseers were more important than teachers. Even when I enter such a year 1917 and hope in Russia that the Bolsheviks are coming and freeing education from such bourgeois liberal education... They were counting on freedom, that's what 1917 looked like for parts. But what happened? State care for children, state care for children, non-government, non-social, state care for children has been introduced. The effect and in the artistic world, and in the education was identical. Escape. Marc Chagall, Kandinsky, many outstanding educators ran away and won Lunacharski and Nadziezda Krupska. They still fought illiteracy, we do not have to fight illiteracy today because we managed it in the years of the Polish People's Republic. The ubiquitous country, the ubiquitous state with its Pegasus, has won. And today we are dealing with a situation that I am unable to treat this law separately and to think only and only about the possibility of remote teaching in the hospital. Because the state failed when it came to remote teaching. And to me, it is not satisfactory, although I am in favour of this possibility, in short, to introduce. But not in this bill. What is the curse for the current government? Independence, criticism, freedom This is the kind of concept that needs to be limited. You need to be brought into supervisory work. I don't want to complain and complain too much, because there's always going to be a question of what in return. Today, what should be of particular concern is teaching teachers themselves, improving their competences, financial assistance also for them, improving salaries, improving the condition of local authorities in the field of education, so that they are more willing to put even more money on investment for teachers, on additional bonuses. What's going on in this matter? He's moving in so-called. The New Deal and the income is limited, i.e. the autonomy of local governments, with consequences, which will also be for education. I know that self-governments treat education in particular... so they'll protect it, but as much as they can. I will return to the most important issues that are missing today: freedom, tolerance, empathy, protection of diversity, teaching to distinguish between facts and interpretation of facts. As I look at these details that testify to what I'm talking about, which confirm my assessment, I see that knowledge of society is turning into an interest in the past and the present. There's no future here. We reach back again, we will deal again with ourselves and numerous failures in our history, in the history of Poland. Well, those failures were unfortunately numerous. I want the Minister to come here and say: I know what educational challenges will be in two years' time, and I have prepared a bill that will answer that. And after two years, we'll say, "The Minister was right." The most important issues are the ability to move online, legal or medical knowledge. We know that young people, 16 or 17 years old, make online purchases of various medicines, and are not prepared to be reviewers of what is in this offer. I think this is the most important thing right now. We need a combination of reason and intellect, anticipating the situation, respect, tolerance and elevating the teacher to a real pedestal. Then children, parents, teachers, the Polish state will win. This bill's gonna make us lose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Timer signal]] There's no need for the signal to work because the senator is done. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Why are we speaking so many times during this discussion? Because we care about good school, good students, good parents, and that Polish school is a good school, modern and comprehensive education. This document contradicts all the objectives I have said. The purpose of the school is to replace an empty mind with an open mind, said Malcolm Forbes. You don't want an open mind, a mind that looks for knowledge that can think critically, but above all, wants to be open to the world. You're looking for other solutions. When the Minister was just saying... He asked this question: is politicisation that we want to give the tool to the curator? Yeah, the politicization is that you want to give this far-reaching authority to the probation officer. This is extreme politicisation, because among the curators you oversee, there are curators like Barbara Nowak. This is the probation officer who, on the radio, asked questions about medical knowledge, vaccination issues, answered: this is a scientific experiment. The Minister of Health, your colleague from the government, said about this curator: "Such people should not be held responsible for education. There is a person, if you can say so, enlightened, who can stand up to his weak authority in the whole world of science. Unfortunately, these are, of course, further failures, more unfortunate statements. You are proposing that, as your colleagues from the government say, people with little authority decide how Polish children will be educated and raised. There can't be a worse signal for parents, teachers and children themselves. There was just a discussion here about how this law should be understood, what the real intentions of those who prepared it are. Luckily, there are those who say it straight. Among them is Deputy Minister of Rome, who told you directly why you can't wait for this bill. And that honesty must be shown to everyone. When on 2 February the Deputy Minister of Education was a guest of the Political Salon of the Triple, on a question about the operation of the staff of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help... And this is a perfect example, because we have a fresh memory of this wonderful, wonderful charity which has been uniting Poles for years. By the way, only those students who want to work in the staff, and the finals of the Great Christmas Help Orchestra are held every year on weekends. I'm saying this as a person who's been a private quarterback standing with a can for over 20 years. We collect that money on weekends. And on the question of whether, after the entry into force of this law, the staff of WYŚP will be able, as so far, to operate in schools, the Minister's answer is as follows: the staff of WYŚP will have to obtain the consent of all parents in the school, 100% My parents. What if one parent objects? He's asking the interviewer. And the answer: you have to respect the rights of minorities, you can't force parents who don't like Jurek Owsiak to contact this form of activity. This is a disaster. Just one parent... You're consciously putting in place a mechanism for arguing with your parents. It's enough for one parent to be seduced in any form so that such a beautiful and wonderful action doesn't take place. I specifically quoted the transcript from this interview so that no one could say that any words in this area had been changed. I would like to make it clear to the Minister once again: no child in Poland is forced to question the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. And I have no doubt that many of us want to participate in this wonderful social action. It's a terrible thing for all these people to say that you want to throw them out of school with these solutions. The administrative decision is to block this noble and beautiful action. I felt encouraged by the words of the Minister who said that we should get acquainted with the opinions about this project that were in the Seym... So I will read you a part of this opinion. This is the opinion of the Office of Seym Analysis of the Sejm The Sejm, in which the most important club is the Law and Justice, the Sejm, which has been led for several years by the parliamentarians of the PiS. And what does this opinion say about the project you presented today? The amendments provided for in Article 1 shall be as set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 86 educational law is also aimed at strengthening the position of curator: additional restrictions and obstacles to the activities of social organisations at school premises are envisaged. Projectors predict that if you are taking classes with students, you will also need to obtain a positive opinion from the education curator. You should apply for it no later than 2 months before the beginning of the class (for example, passing on the course. the programme of activities and the materials used for its implementation). The probation officer has up to 30 days to deliver an opinion. I quote further: "It should be pointed out that the length of time provided for the initial procedures will make it difficult for teachers to respond flexibly to the needs of pupils depending on the situation and to offer up-to-date activities. In general, new rules can discourage both schools' organisations and school heads from working together, especially in schools where there is no cooperation. The opinion further reads: "The proposed regulation, which is the subject of the opinion, significantly limits the role of the school authority. According to Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 education law is the body running the school or establishment responsible for its activities. The aim of the school as a separate legal entity is to achieve the objectives of the education policy of the state and fulfil the legally established tasks... The schools of the very essence of the activity form one form of legal decentralisation. There is no doubt that the legal degrees of autonomy of the school in the field of its own tasks... It should be noted that since 1989 a gradual process has been launched to increase school autonomy and to socialise education. That's what we read in that opinion. You want to take the school back to the time of the Polish People's Republic. In this opinion It was the Minister who encouraged me to get to know her. You have written directly: you go against trends that build autonomy, strong position, the desire of teachers to expand the horizons of students. Minister, you've encouraged us to read this opinion, and I don't think you've read it yourself. I haven't read such a crushing opinion about a project that went from government to parliament. I can suggest one thing to you: talking to Mrs. Joanna Karolczak, a legislative expert at the Sejm Analysis Office, even at a break, and then coming here, apologizing to us in this room and saying that the government wants to withdraw from the initiative that he presented in this Chamber. Also because if you read any opinions and conduct an analysis of this project, an analysis in terms of its compliance with the laws in force in the country, it is a catalogue of violations of the Constitution, the provisions of education law, the European Convention, the Charter of Local Government Rights that is a catalogue of disgrace for those who have prepared this project. There's an art violation here. 1 of the Constitution, the principle of common good, infringement of Article. 2 on disproportionate interference by the legislator, infringement of Article. 5, which provides for the right of the legislator to determine the forms of performance of educational tasks, infringement of Article. 15 on decentralisation of the State, infringement of Article. 16, which states that the self-government carries out public tasks, infringement of Article. 12 and 58, which govern the principles of civil society, infringement of Article. 47 and 48, where we read about the inviolability of parents' rights. Think about it. Let's make the law in accordance with the constitution, with the laws that apply. Let's not create fiction. You're trying to offer us a mechanism in which you're giving the parole officers such a huge power. I'm already skipping what kind of parole officer you have, because I've quoted the assessment of one of your parolees, which was presented by the minister in this government. You are giving tools that, in practice, from the point of view of the citizen, are a clear signal that the government itself is not taking these regulations seriously. You're writing about the procedure for approval of certain activities by the probation officer. 20,000 schools in Poland, an average of about 1 thousand 300 schools per curator, in each school several organizations and a multi-month procedure for approval of the timetable. Why do you want to push... [[Timer signal]] ...all these organizations outside the school walls? For the sake of the students... [[Timer signal]] [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...teachers, parents, Polish education? I hope this project... [[Time.]] ...will be rejected. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's actually not a discussion about the bill. It's about... This should be a discussion about the philosophy of approach to school. I agree with what my previous speakers have said, in particular Minister Zdrojewski, that this is a particularly delicate sphere in which to deal with a greater degree of sensitivity than other elements of the public sector, and a sphere based on trust, responsibility and trust. In fact, this is the last sphere in which it would be possible to apply the concept of holding people by the face, because it is extremely harmful. And there are real weaknesses of Polish education, but they are not a concern of government factors. There is a lack of empathy, there is everything that came out of remote teaching, when parents on a massive scale learned how many shortcomings and weaknesses there are. There is formalism, there is a lack of encouragement for synthetic thinking, especially in humanistic sciences, there is a culture of testing that teaches you not to think. It's worth dealing with all this, but the thought of dealing with it in a system where the director is scared and the teacher is insecure is ridiculous. It requires a combination of responsibility, trust and respect for teachers. To put it simply, there's an absolutely false vision of the school. There is a cultural war going on in the modern world. A responsible policy always seeks to reach a consensus. And I am convinced that Polish school is not an area of cultural war. And I have the impression, listening to Minister Czarnek, that this is some kind of big scandal that needs to be answered hard. Do you really believe that Poles, including those who vote for the United Right, feel that the school is an object, an area of some great scandal and requires strengthening of central authority? I think it's absolutely sick thinking. And even if it were, And I think that in this sphere, since the early 1990s, there has been a certain balance, which is written in the educational law where it is spoken about Christian values, and about the values of secular culture, is the centralist philosophy, the philosophy of holding people by the face, the philosophy of a frightened teacher, the frightened director is the last response that the responsible authority can give. Take an example of what happens to the religiousity of young people. Minister, if you could hear this, please. Comrade Stalin, Comrade Gomulka and many warring atheists of the day the Polish People did not contribute to such a departure of young people from the Church as the power of Law and Justice. This is even mentioned in the statistical data of the government's agendas. It'll be the same with patriotic attitudes. According to CBOS data, 70% Polish young people feel proud of belonging to the national community. Is that not enough in the modern world? Sociologists say it's more than Western Europe. What do you want to fight? What kind of methods? The effects will be the same as when young people are alienated from religion and from the Church. The foundation of your governments will be the destruction of center values and Christian values in a young generation. I appeal to this part of the Senators of the United Right, who participated in the actions of the Solidarity Election Action, having a sense of responsibility for education, so as not to support this law. It leads to uncertainty and discipline of teachers and those responsible for education. Its effects will be completely contrary to what was at the heart of the philosophy of a certain ideological balance in the education that was shaped in the 1990s. She is now destroyed in the name of a crazy vision. Don't open another front. School should not be an area of cultural war. And if that were the case, it would require gentleness and balance, not murder. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm pretty emotional about this debate. I have listened to all the questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs and, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking such a question, probably rhetorical: what else can be destroyed in our country? The PiS government destroyed an independent judiciary by introducing a muzzle bill. He wanted to destroy the free media, but luckily it didn't work. It destroys Polish medics. The last vote in the Sejm showed that inefficiently... The lex confidant or lex Kaczyński, as I read in the media, did not enter into force. You're going to school, which can have very far-reaching consequences that are detrimental to the development of a young man. I asked myself, listening to all these speeches, which should be the Polish school, the school of dreams of our children and grandchildren. This law certainly does not ensure this development of education. Instead of dealing with reforms that are now important, in this particular situation of pandemic, when our children have been exposed to social alienation, you are dealing with something that is not relevant at all in terms of school development. I have no doubt that the lex Czarnek Act is an assassination of Polish education, and the proposed change in education law is scandalous. Of course, we have different opinions from different backgrounds, including teachers, students, parents. Reception of independence, rights and freedom. This has already happened in today's debate. In a democratic and European country, the government wants to take over the teaching system only for its political purposes. Most people who have spoken in the discussion agree that there is no room for individualism, creativity or developing a sense of autonomy, not schools, but students. It can't be like this, it can't be a modern school. This situation will most likely lead to a huge pathology in the Polish education system. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the third year of the pandemic, a time extremely difficult for all, including our youngest children. The elements of chaos that result from government decisions are unpredictable and contradictory, constantly aggravating the bitterness of students, teachers, and parents. Learning interrupted by quarantine, especially those who have not been vaccinated, the remote teaching that the Minister spoke of. Let's hope it's as limited as possible. It has a very bad effect on the level of teaching and emotional state of teachers, students, as well as parents. There is a lack of sophisticated remote work system and related legislation. And instead of focusing on this important issue, on the education of our citizens, on their future, on psychological support, so necessary, the government wants to give serious and far-reaching systemic changes. It seems to me that right now, at this very time, this is absolutely not a priority. The law itself... the Minister here accused us of not reading the bill or knowing its contents. I think it's very insolent of you, and I think you don't understand what's written in this bill. And the content of the bill raises huge controversy. The government wants to deal with these changes at the moment, which is unfavorable for school development. This bill is harmful to society as a whole. The curator shall not be the managing authority and the supervisory authority at the same time. It's a multidimensional conflict of interest. And that is what teachers, directors, are afraid of, which also sounded in this debate. Unfortunately, this is also another step towards centralising and reducing the role of local governments. I say this from the perspective of many years of experience and work in the local government. If there was a pathology on the part of the school principal, as the Minister said, that's what law enforcement and court are for, you don't have to give those powers to the probation officers. If a person commits pathological behavior at school or church or anywhere else, that's what the courts are for. And this system worked for a number of years. And increasing the competences of curators, who will not only supervise education in a given municipality, but will also manage this education, clearly political education and marginalise the decision-making of local authorities in this area. The implementation of the proposed regulations implies de facto that municipalities are deprived of independence on key issues in meeting the collective needs of the community in the field of public education. Not only does self-sufficiency of local authorities face risks, but the proposed solutions also run counter to the principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation. Education should be independent of temporary political interests. The educational environment is critical of the proposed changes, as are the students and their parents. Local authorities and NGOs are also opposed. There are so many voices of opposition that should give Minister Czarny a lot to think about. The students will not fall for it, they want to live in a free and democratic state. Young people will fight for their future and their rights. The government cannot, through its despotic actions, deprive them of their rights and freedoms, and the local authorities of the powers associated with running schools. I ask that we keep our senses and follow the recommendations of all Senate committees. As I stress in this discussion, they rejected this law. You can't politicize the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! First of all, one thought, note, or perhaps more regret that the debate on this special law here in the Senate, including the last bastion of democracy, did not take place at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, that we did not make an effort as a committee to invite all the interested parties, that there was no wish that there was no willingness to host all the associations, presidents, local governments, teachers, directors, but also the young people themselves, so that they could all come to the meeting of this leading committee and talk about their emotions, about their reservations about this law. We do not agree, Mr President. I'm looking at the chairman of the committee here. We would like another important debate on the future of Polish education to take place in our committee, not in other committees. This effort was made by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration And thank you very much for this initiative. But I would also like to thank the rapporteur of this committee, because he was very specific about what was going on at the committee meeting. He talked about all these speeches, all those strong words that were coming out of his mouth, as I said, and teachers, and representatives of local governments, and representatives of non-governmental organizations, but they were also strong voices of students. The only thing that was missing was this atmosphere that was at this committee meeting, because the rapporteur was only passing us the report itself, and really there were emotions, this atmosphere was extremely hot and showed how much they were experiencing it, how much they opposed everything that this law brings together. And now I want to talk about one emotion that was very important to me, it was an emotion related to hope, unfortunately, as it turned out, a false hope. After the deformity of Minister Zalewska everyone had just hoped that nothing worse could happen in Polish education, but as it turned out, in the country ruled by PiS actually every day we collide with other absurdities that ruin further areas of our everyday life. And when the Polish school took a breath and came out of this chaos that this deformity brought with it... Let me just remind you that this was an absolutely titanic effort of both teachers, directors and local governments, because they took over this technical effort to introduce this deformity of education, and that's why it worked, and that's why the Minister could talk about success. Without this effort, without this preparation, also without the financial expenditure of local governments, the fate of this deformity could be very different. And when they had already taken their breath and thought that they would be able to build a new reality, that the future hope would go further, unfortunately the future pandemic. Absolutely no one could have expected it, and of course no one could have been prepared for it. But now, in this pandemic, when local governments, when the management, teachers needed the support of the ministry, what was the situation? It turned out that the Ministry had planned something, during the week there were press conferences, and in fact regulations on what school should look like in almost every new week since Monday, appeared on Saturday evening. And the principals, the local government, those who were in charge of education, couldn't plan or know what the next week of school's operation would be like on Saturday. I will remind you that the health and curators were only bodies that gave opinions, did not take any responsibility during the pandemic for what was going on or what was going on in Polish schools. They weren't any support, they were just the bodies that gave opinions. Again with superhuman efforts and self-governments, and teachers, and directors, but also parents and students themselves. And I'm going to emphasize that, and I'm going to talk about it very strongly, step by step, we were planning... well, we were planning, we were planning this pandemic reality occupied by a lot of renunciations. And what still burdens us the most is the fear that sits in our heads, but also the concern for our health and safety, our loved ones, our children. All this anxiety, this lack of security, I'll remind you, our comrades, and you can't still get it out of our heads. And when after this period of more than 2 years of school, local governments, parents, children knew how to function during this pandemic period, because we cannot yet say that during the post-pandemic period, there was another blow to the head. It was such a shock when it turned out that, in fact, the ministry instead of the concern directed at every single student, on his mental health, also on the mental health of teachers, instead of working on what the future of the Polish school is supposed to look like after the pandemic, instead of focusing on how to control the extended program base and try to prepare it just for post-pandemic time to deal with e.g. an attempt to compensate, however, for the growing inequalities associated with remote science... Instead of what the Ministry was working on? Well, it's been working on a bill that we call lex Czarnek, but there's already a lex Wójcik in line, and, of course, the subject that's already being criticized right now, I'm thinking about this famous HiT. I think that no normal person would believe that at a time when support should go in a completely different direction, the Ministry can work on such solutions, and yet in the Polish reality, such things happened in the PiS-reality. Directors, teachers, self-governments after this hard, titanic work related to the deformity of education, associated with the pandemic time, instead of words of gratitude, perhaps gestures of gratitude, perhaps show that we thank you, because we have been at these most difficult moments together, what do you get, ladies and gentlemen? Well it turns out that this bill, lex Czarnek, lex Wójcik they carry a muzzle to close all that they have been doing so far and are to be subjected to constant pressure, constant anxiety in connection with what the Ministry has prepared and what it is preparing. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may... Unfortunately, there are no Members from this side of the room with us, and I believe they are watching us remotely. I have a request, and it's not really a request... [[They're ……]] ...only my own, personal, but all those associations that have so far been able to speak on this issue, teachers, directors, local governments, students themselves. Please have the courage, like those 70 Members who said lex Kaczyński... I ask you to have the courage to say no lex Czarnek and then lex Wójcik. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that your art performance has triggered the senator's vocem... [[I've stayed, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes, of course, that's why you have the senator, yes, the right to ad vocem. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Well, unfortunately, we don't want to listen to each other, we want to talk, we want to build some narratives. At the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, where the senator had a similar statement, I explained the situation. We received a notice from you, Professor Tomasz Grodzki, of the Senate meeting on 20 and 21 January. This program of the Senate meeting included an educational law. The organisation of the committee meeting on 20 January was the only way to fulfil the marshal's will so that the report on the examination of this law would be delivered before the Senate meeting. And that's what happened. Whoever wanted to, who volunteered, came, I agreed to his participation. You were vice president of the Polish Teachers Association, you were remotely vice president of the capital city of Warsaw representing local governments. I consented to their presence, to their participation. They could have spoken, and in their statements, well, not very long, but they said a lot. Everyone could have heard it. So that I believe that these charges against me are unfounded. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. That's the end of the argument. Please continue the debate. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. Well, your government is no longer fit for anything, should resign, and that's the basis. I hope there will be a vote of distrust. It's not like you guys can do anything. Remember, senior colleagues, when we were debating the IPN Act? Three young deputy ministers from Mr Ziobra led Prime Minister Morawiecki to drive all over Europe, across the United States and apologize. Same with Turov. Well, you can see what you've done with Turov. You've made a deal, you're happy, and it turns out all this could have been done sooner if there was a proper man in this place. Come on, check it out, for example. Polish Lad. Two young men who are about to be fired have led to such destruction, Polish and tax, that tax houses and people... Another thing is what happened recently, so-called. lex Kaczyński. It's already some kind of psychic to come up with a bill that someone's gonna report to the other one that infected him with COVID. Well, I'm sorry to look at it this way, but I really... Give yourselves up, there will be holy peace and responsible people, wise, prepared for this and experienced will lead Poland in the right direction. Minister, I'm getting hundreds, hundreds of letters on my tablet, which I'm about to read, but to fit in in time... And I can fit in five minutes. Well, sir, you're in front of most teachers, students and children and parents. Don't you see these strikes, all of this, this slogan, except with the Black? How can a man... This minister doesn't even have the courage to come here to talk to me, and I'm a youth teacher, and I work with difficult young people and they don't want such a minister of education. You must be glowing with your eyes here because you're the Vice Minister. It's okay. Finally, I want to say one more thing. There you go. This is the text that got most of the senators and Members of all, in my opinion, the organization, as part of the free school action. It sounds like this: Dear State, next Friday you will make an important decision for Polish education. You can stop a destructive project for schools, management and teaching staff, for children and young people and parents in education law, so-called. lex Czarnek... It's like you can't call it a law. People are already laughing at the name "Lex Czarnek" anyway. And then it was rejected by three Senate committees. Against the solutions contained in it there were companies that organize local governments, teachers, directors' associations and social organizations almost all over Poland. We ask that you give us a chance to stop the changes that harm the Polish education. The further fate of the project lex Czarnek is not doomed either in the Seym or in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. We count not only on the votes of the opposition, but also on the senators and senators of the ruling coalition. And I'm counting, too, although you're not here in the courtroom. There are two colleagues, I welcome you cordially, always sitting here. Include you will find an appeal from social, local and union organizations to reject the lex Czarnek Act. Of course, every normal person thinking about the Polish school, about Polish freedom and democracy will not agree that such people will find a place in such a country, e.g. D.A. Nowak, who says that Pfizer's vaccination isn't checked yet... [[Voices from the O.R.: Superintendent.]] The parole officer, well, the parole officer. Or he says the show's bad, and he recommends that the kids don't walk. And the youth walks. And this probation officer whose release is requested by the Minister of Health still maintains his position. Mr. Terlecki is coming... and it's okay. Are you okay? And then there's the bill. This is your government. Are you guys even fit for anything? Give yourselves up, along with this lex czarnek bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, sir, for the fact that by pointing to me and the senator of the rapporteur... I'm sorry, you called the senator. We're older friends. I'll be honest with you, time runs inexorably, but in this House and I, and the senator, we belong. And we're very proud of it. To the younger ones. But, anyway, thank you very much to the senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll start my speech with the Constitution. This is the Minister who said that there are opinions of constitutionalists who say that the bill is in line with the constitution. To be honest, I don't remember these times, and I'm already a man with gray hair, so that constitutionalists can give opinions under certain needs of this or other options. This is beyond my comprehension. I just can't understand it. I don't know, maybe we should have introduced a rule, how many constitutionalists with diplomas... how many are there? More? You show your opinions, and we have different opinions. During the debate that took place here, a very interesting debate during which lex Czarnek was really crushed, one of the teachers from one of the best general education schools in Warsaw said that he had conducted a lesson in knowledge about society and students in high school, in high school, gave this task: he gave a constitution and lex Czarnek asking students to assess whether this law is in line with the constitution. High school students have made it clear that this law is incompatible with the constitution, as are prominent constitutionalists. Of course, you will find some constitutionalists who will say that she is in line with the constitution. I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't know what rules to come up with, even in the future, it's not about whether he's running the PiS today or later he's gonna run the PO, it's not about determining when something's in line with the constitution and when it's not in line with the constitution. And please don't talk about the Constitutional Court, because no one believes in the Constitutional Tribunal which is currently in operation today. Something's got to change. It can't go on like this. In a state of law, it cannot be that, for political purposes, 1 opinion and 100 opinions of the most prominent constitutionalists are drawn up, because 1 opinion is about conformity. Minister, I'm in a lot of pain to hit the local government. I'm in a lot of pain because self-government is the foundation of this country, yes, the foundation. Poland is developing because it has a strong foundation and has not yet managed to break it down. It's clearly written in the Constitution. You should know what subsidiarity is, what subsidiarity is. The state and state subsidiarity vis-à-vis self-government, not the replacement of self-government and the taking away of powers from self-government. Now, an important thing: supervision of the probation officer, in the context of the constitutional provisions, supervision of the probation officer. Tell me on what basis could anyone say that the probation officer's supervision of the local government is in line with the constitution. It's a constitutional delicacy, isn't it? Government supervision may be exercised by the President, the Prime Minister through the voivodeship, yes, because the Prime Minister's representative in the field This is a voivodship. If the voivode had such supervision and, let's say, canceled the teacher, I would still be able to understand it, because it's written in the constitution, but what powers does the curator have to cancel the director. If the Director fails to follow the instructions of pedagogical supervision, the mayor may be ordered to dismiss the Director, and if the mayor fails to do so, then the probation officer will cancel the Director. On what grounds? According to what provisions of the Constitution? Now it would be possible to discuss pedagogical supervision. Minister, I understand that if a teacher or a school principal didn't do his duty of teaching when it comes to pedagogy, pure pedagogy, but we know perfectly well... And I would agree here that the parole officer is overseeing this sphere. Teacher teaches math wrong, okay, teacher teaches that 2 plus 2 is 5. Then the probation officer comes in, cancels the teacher one way or another, through the voivodeship. That's what I'd be able to understand. However, the concerns of the whole environment with regard to teachers, parents, local government officials are such that this selection enabling the curator to dismiss the teacher will be used politically. Can this be used? I will quote to you the words of the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, yes, the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, Mr. Terlecki said: the school will raise a patriot voting for the PiS. That's what the Vice Marshal of the Seym says. If education is to go in this direction and this reform is to pursue it... I agree with you that maybe we could find some records there that are good. There was talk of remote teaching, we discussed it. We could lean on a few things, we could, let's say, talk, and I think there would be a few things that were worth moving in, but, Minister, in the new bill, not in this one, because this one is unacceptable. And once again, it's a matter of self-government. I don't understand how in this country we can talk about the role of self-government... This law wants to bring the role of self-government to the administration. The Lord speaks proudly that you have extended the possibility of adapting schools for preschool education by two years. Is this grace, Minister? Is that grace? The local government is responsible for the whole school system, and you want to bring the role of local governments to ensure that the local government is responsible only and exclusively for patching a hole in the roof, paying salaries to teachers for which education grants are not sufficient. In fact, you promised me that you would prepare an answer to the question of what part of the education grant covers teachers' salaries. 50% to me. Well, we'll see. The Vice President of Warsaw has made it clear that this is definitely not 100% Just a lot, a lot, a lot less. Your role is to provide funding to local governments. And the fact that you decided and spent some money there to buy equipment... First of all, it's not your money. This is our money, the money of all Poles, all taxpayers, not yours. And second of all, the fact that this money went to local government... This is the role of the state to organize teaching and managing schools together with the local government. Very well... I loved how Senator Zdrojewski showed what this hierarchy should be like. At the very top of this hierarchy should be a student and his well-being, then a parent, teacher, curator and minister. And you want to reverse it. And an important thing for me, Minister, at the end of the day, we're done. Civic lessons... It's been around a couple of times. Minister, I'll talk about my example. I'm talking about the fear that reigned in the world. By the way, by the way, I'd love to see a list of local government officials who support this bill. If you were able to provide me with this list, I would be very grateful. 'Cause I don't know a self-government man like that. And in the debate that took place here and in which there were representatives of local organizations, headed by the Polish Towns Association, the opinion expressed against this law was devastating, just devastating. And as for the fear that's already causing this bill, even though it hasn't come into force yet... Minister, if you'd just listen to me for a second, because I'm directing this to you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: I listen all the time, Mr. Senator.]] Minister, I've been an entrepreneur for 17 years, I've been president of the city for 17 years, probably not the worst, today I'm a senator. I have announced to everyone not only in my constituency, but in the Lubuskie voivodeship that I would very much like to serve my experience and know and would like to conduct civic lessons. It's about passing on my experience and knowledge that I've gained all these years. I directed this proposal to all schools in Lubuskie voivodship. I told you right away that no policy, zero policy, I said I was signing off on it, under the program... I wanted to talk about self-government, parliament and the constitution. Maybe that's the constitution that scared the hell out of me. Believe me, in the Lubuskie Voivodeship 1 school checked in, one. The principal made it clear to me that since he's got a contest in three or four months, it's best not to, maybe after the contest. You've already brought this fear into Polish schools. Teachers are scared, parents are scared, self-government people are scared. This bill is unnecessary. During the pandemic, when we have a lot of problems to solve, implementing this bill... She will serve Polish society badly. I hope this bill doesn't pass. And a word at the end. Today it was said at a meeting with local government officials, with representatives of education, that today, unfortunately, the word "education" can be treated as an oxymoron... Today, education is replaced by indoctrination. This law is unnecessary and is entirely to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little embarrassed to be in a debate about such a law, because this law shouldn't be at all, and if someone has written it, it should be in the basket before it goes to the Sejm or the Senate. That's where she belongs. The place of this bill is in the basket! However, if anyone tries to present it to the High House, he does it with the conviction that he is allowed everything, that he can afford anything, including the destruction of the Polish school, including the fact that the victims of this law will be Polish children, including the experiment that is being done on living people You're trying to use the worst instruments, the tools of Peerellian social engineering. You're trying to create a new PiS man. You've been trying to form him since the first time he walked through the school door. That's the purpose of this bill. This law is a muzzle law, just as the muzzle law is a law limiting the possibility for Polish judges to rule independently. It's an independent read: objective. In this case, this muzzle law is intended to limit the ability of Polish school heads to act. This muzzle bill is designed to limit parents' access to shaping or co-shaping the program of education for the youngest generation. I'm about to develop these threads. This muzzle law is finally to leave the shell, the walls of the institution, which is the Polish school under the control of the local government, and the whole content is to be left in the hands of the minister and his governors in the regions, i.e. curators. We in Krakow have such a governor and we know how compromised he is. This governor doesn't just talk about education and upbringing. This governor is trying to impose on the community of our city the way of thinking about various events about what Auschwitz is, about how the Jagiellonian University should be understood. It's even going to make our Alma Mater call it a shame to say it to a social agency. That's the kind of governor you've got in the field! Those who call the best Polish universities social agencies! Can we allow such a governor, through the governor, who is the Minister of Education, to shape the awareness of our generation? And he reversed everything that was the greatest asset of the Polish school: its openness, its concern for the young man, the upbringing in a spirit of tolerance, the upbringing in an open spirit, the upbringing in a spirit, well, a certain rivalry I also want to say about it in a moment, what is the necessary mechanism in the modern educational market? You want Polish children now, in this next stage of education, to have less chances in this competition. Because there is competition in the educational market, both national and European, and finally the global market. The best chance is for those who have the best results in teaching, who have received the most knowledge that allows them to move in the modern world. You have limited the possibilities of Polish youth I talked about it from this platform when you were eliminating junior high school because junior high was the new product of education reform, which adapted the Polish educational system to the system prevailing in Europe, gave the opportunity, opened the doors of Polish youth, and did not close them to Polish youth. In the second stage, you decided to strangle the teachers while they were on strike while they were insisting. And you're right. It's about your salary. But in addition to their wages, they also claimed their jobs, their school. Because this is where they wanted to work. How many teachers have passed away since then? How many fantastic people said goodbye to the profession because they knew that under this shoe the Minister of Education couldn't do much? And you've finally gone fluently to the third stage that we're discussing right now. This third stage is the submission, complete submission of education, taking it under the firm shoes of the Minister of Education acting by his governors in regions such as the curator Barbara Nowak. This is an extraordinary situation, an unprecedented situation in open societies. But it is characteristic of countries that want to have a closed society, and citizens prefer to see as passive executors of authority. That's what you want. That's what you want. You want the Polish school to educate passive citizens, not bright, open, modern young Poles. But for the sake of clarity, I will add that with this act it will be the same as with the grandparents whom she banned from seeing the governor of the Ministry of Education and Science in Cracow. Those queues that lined up under the Slovak Theatre, the tickets queues, are the best assessment of the actions of your authority. There have not been such queues under Slovak theatre for many, many years. It's a sign that society can handle it. Society can handle you, but you can't handle yourself. Someday you will be responsible for everything you have done to these youngest, children and Polish youth. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What we're trying to do today as a change in education law is to return censorship to school. For the students, it's gonna be... I hope it doesn't happen, but this could be the beginning of something they haven't known so far. For us, it would be a retreat to the times of authoritarianism and centralization, regardless of what politicians, the creators of these changes say. Well, we remember the words made by Minister Czarny that there is no such thing as school autonomy. I would like to refer in my speech to one element, i.e. to a change in the article. 86, which clarifies the role of the curator in censoring content from outside the programme base, i.e. all the valuable content that non-governmental organisations can bring to school that can enrich the curriculum. The change that is proposed here is supposed to limit the probation officer's interference in the very content proposed by the organizations, but the complete rejection of this can significantly affect the possibility of... We are afraid to take away this extraordinary opportunity to shape citizens' attitudes, to include young people in the debate on the world, tolerance and diversity, to acquire the skills of dialogue and critical thinking. I don't have to tell you how important it is for a modern man to be a free man who can say no. This process of allowing the organization to conduct its activities is very formal at the moment, because it is decided by the director and the parent's council. It's up to them to organize the school's work. The change concerns only a few elements of educational law. This is what the Minister spoke very clearly about, referring to what actually concerns Article. 86. There's only a few points of change here. According to education law, we are to ensure that the right to education, support and support the child in development is implemented, ensuring that this representation of the world is adapted to the psychophysical capabilities of children. According to these points, curators are to ensure that children learn about safety and understanding risks. Therefore, can censoring content at these points lead to any depravity of children? Do we have any balance between the decision-making of the school and the parents and the ministry, including the probation officer as his governor? Minister Czarnek has declared that we all want to know before the President knows what our children will be taught at school. Does this mean that the programmes that the Minister is proposing are beyond suspicion? Why did the Minister give himself the right and the schools want to take it away? Organizations have been selected and a priori has been given a safety clause. There have already been lists of curators who exclude certain organizations from conducting classes with children in schools. Why am I so upset about this change? We all know that school organisations in the form of parental advice are nothing but a democratic representation of all parents. Parents' participation in school boards is voluntary. Each year, class directors and educators encourage parents to participate actively in school life through their participation in councils. It is these councils that form the first element of democracy at school. If the parental board decides that the programme of an organisation that has been proposed as an extension of scholastic and content-laden school programmes, a programme that can expand and allow students to participate more freely in modern education... If such programmes are subject to a positive review of the parent's counsel questioning the guardian's opinion, is this not a denial of the idea of democracy at school, according to which it is the headmaster and representation of the parents who decide what children will learn in after-school classes? This approach will lead to a place of propaganda and promotion of the contents chosen by the Minister from the school. It doesn't matter who's politically in charge at the moment. School cannot be managed only now, here and now The school is a process whose effects can only be seen after many years. At school, the decision-making vote should belong to the principal, parents and children. We must not forget that they are the subject, not the current politicians. And what appears to be very relevant is what has been written in the 2019 Law and Justice Programme for the elections: the education curator with a strong position will ensure that the law is respected in educational institutions; we will not allow the state to be deprived of the possibility of shaping educational policy, and we will give the right tools, including financial tools, to implement it. Let us do our utmost to ensure that democracy in schools remains intact and that it is the director and representation of parents and children themselves who have the decisive vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping the Minister would at least pretend to listen. He's out. We're full of us, like there's no one else. But ad rem. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech, the Minister included the whole philosophy of your approach to this subject. He said this: in thousands of schools in Poland, there were cases where the law was not respected, which talked about how it should be done. For pedagogical and educational reasons, conduct classes, who to let in and who not to let in. And as a result, you're calling the probation officers to this task, and you're assigning them to the probation officers. And I said, "Who's gonna supervise?" Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very centralist education management system. Education, as Senator Zdrojewski was talking about, needs freedom, needs freedom within the law, needs to seek solutions, not to talk about what needs to be said and how to behave. And now the Minister says the parole officer will respond. What right do you have? There are opinions of constitutionalists, people who have experience in constitutional matters. These opinions are clear: the law is incompatible with the constitution. What does the Minister say? What does Law and Justice say? He says we have opinions. Do you remember how... I'm here for the third term, and I remember the KRS bill being introduced. There were 7 negative opinions concerning the courts and the KRS, but the senator of the PiS, the professor, stood up and said: but these are only opinions. And they've led you to something? To a total mess and a complete ruin of the Polish justice system. And you want to do the same thing with school. People who have experience, knowledge, they write objective opinions, and you get up and say, "What do we think we have?" You've got political knowledge, you've got prikaz, you've got what you need to do. And that's the fundamental difference. You build your laws and reflections not on a message based on knowledge and experience, the experience of people who work on constitutional opinions for the Polish Senate for many years, only on... You say they're just opinions. I asked my colleague Janusz here if any positive opinions were made during the committee meeting. Well, it's rare that there's not a single positive opinion at the committee meeting. Don't you understand? You're building a system completely disconnected from reality. But it's still fucking bullshit! The worst part is what the Minister was talking about. Well, if there's a problem at school, the probation officer will solve it. I've been browsing, tracking education management systems in Europe, and I'm going to say from my own experience... Well, for 7 years I've personally been involved in education at the level of Kwidzyn and I want to say that the less supervision and more freedom, more of all that is related to trust in the teacher, to school, to the principal, to the parents, the better results are achieved. And when I tracked it all down, I chose two extreme models of education. One of them is a Finnish model. I agree that... Senator Zdrojewski once said that every country should build its model, and here is full agreement, but I am referring to some experience, the conclusions that these people have already introduced some elements of education management. It is important to consider how to fit them into the Polish system, which elements to choose, which elements to reject and which to introduce. You're putting in a very centralized system. And what I want to say is that when I tracked down these two systems, the Hungarian system and the Finnish system... the Finnish system is that the state It is a pity that the Minister isn't here because he might learn something. He's building a system of values and goals that the school is supposed to meet. He's building a system of teacher training, a system of teacher education, a system of very good pedagogical schools. It also builds the position of a teacher in the whole system, which involves among others. on the fact that the remuneration of a teacher who has good results is comparable to the best salaries in other spheres. So the doctor and the teacher are people who are very high up there when it comes to the salary hierarchy. And what's in this Finnish model? Well, I'm sure you can't imagine how a school can, how a teacher can, how a director can function without pedagogical supervision. Well, I want to tell you that there are countries like this, and they're doing fantastic results not only in all rankings, research, but also in line with the opinions of parents and other institutions that work with the school. And do you know how many mandatory hours there are in Finland? 700. And we asked Senator Zdrojewski I think we're going to have about 1,000 of them. And one more thing: there's no homework there. What are you building? It's a massively developed software base. In the last term we had a conference at which Professor Konarzewski and his team showed that today at the Polish school, thanks to you, the teacher realizes 70% The software base, about 30% of it pretends to be doing it, and the other things parents do with their kids at home. This is the school you want to build? And then you throw in the parole officer: well, I have to see if you work well there, because if you work badly, I'm gonna cancel the principal. And at the pole opposite the pole, where there's a good Finnish school, there's a Hungarian school. In 2010 Fidesz s is such a Hungarian PiS came to power and began to build a national model of education. Do you know what it's all about? A special institution has been set up to oversee education. And some of the passwords I wrote down. The headmaster of the school in Hungary can't even buy a tack without the approval of this central institution. The role of the director has been brought to the contractor of this office, the curator you also create. The parole officer there says what, what, who, whether good or bad, etc. Not parents do this, not teachers, and certainly many teachers are smarter than some curators in Poland. And what's important? These protesting people, teachers and parents in Hungary say this about education in Hungary: what does a person need to know that cannot be used in practice? And you want to implement this in Poland: teach encyclopedic knowledge, completely useless today, and the ability to think, associate, solve problems, strive to find different solutions to a given problem... It's not like you're teaching that at all and yet you're imposing a centralist system of supervision over education. It was also said that one of the elements concerning the evaluation, apart from the evaluation of students, the school... Then read what students, teachers and parents think about the Polish school today. Come on, read it. Can you read with understanding? Read what they think. It is an encyclopedic school, overloaded. And now you're giving them probation. Now if any organization wants to go to school, they'll go to the school principal, write the application, the principal will give their consent, then there must be a positive or negative opinion of the probation officer and anyone who wants to attend will have to give their consent to attend these classes. Then why are you doing this? Make sure that everyone who wants to go to school writes to the parole officer right away: First Secretary, I'm asking you to come to the school. Then the secretary looks up and says, "Aha, this is mine, I know he'll pass on good values, I let him in." Remember that all studies that have been done in the Hungarian and Finnish systems, including PISA studies, have shown one thing: since 2012, the quality of teaching at the Hungarian school has been falling dramatically, the quality of teaching, the use of knowledge, the ability to use this knowledge, to move around, to solve problems, as opposed to Finnish schools. And PISA, based on research across Europe, has built this conclusion: the analysis of PISA results shows that the more centralism, the worse the learning outcomes. Do you want me to read it again? I think you'll remember, too bad there's no minister, maybe you'll pass on to him: the more centralism, Minister, the worse the educational outcomes. And by the end of the day, I want to say... [[Timer signal]] Mrs. Marshal, last sentence. I am a man who is already old enough to say this: there was a model of Minister Kuberski, a model of making changes in the Polish school. And then there was a joke, a story that I now often quote. And I will transform it into the current situation. Here's before St. Peter becomes President Putin and asks: St. Peter, what are we going to do? St. Peter says capitalism, Mr. President. President Putin turned around and cried. President Biden asks: what is the United States waiting for? Socialism, Mr. President. President Biden turned around and cried. You stood up Minister Czarnek with your lex Czarnek and said: St. Peter, what will happen to Polish education under my leadership? St. Peter turned and wept. Remember, it's not too late to cry. Get out of those stupid things you're offering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u141	Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The PiS started its so-called. reform from the judiciary. And I heard voices: well, who's interested in the Constitutional Tribunal? And then, who's interested in the National Judicial Council? Some body, no one knows what powers, never mind. A body that doesn't have to be touched by one person or another. But right now we have a huge price, inflation, thanks to the fact that... it didn't seem like a single person would touch the decisions of our national bank filled by the PiS. But they touch, because the decisions made by President Glapiński did not slow down inflation, but they increased it. Just like the government's economic policy. And right now, we have a bill that touches everyone, too, and it touches everyone. The minister says: I will teach your children, I will teach them well, I will set them correctly in life, their worldview also, ideology, political views, they will not be lost in this world, because I will tell them exactly how they should think. And the bill that we're working on right now is just an instrument for how these children are to be raised. This law is only a tool, a tool to control and discipline school heads and therefore also teachers. The principle that parents affect the education of children, which is in force and with which we all agreed, is replaced by the fact that not parents and guardians. For he will have the final word. And leaving that possibility to the parole officer to give an opinion, it's a bang. What will be the opinion if, at the end of the day, the curator decides to terminate the function of director, which is to dismiss the director. Yeah, that's what this is about. If the Director doesn't follow the recommendations and corrects the shortcomings... This law introduces the possibility that the curator will decide on personal matters, and of course he will appeal those who will not implement even the subject of history and the present introduced by his regulation. Well, actually, it's an interesting, good shortcut. HiT, because it's really a hit. I read about it, here is the confusion of everything, but it is precisely to impose worldview and to impose doctrines, which are doctrines of the ruling party. Five times, in five points, is the described range of HIT, he could and should be taught in religious lessons. But from the beginning. General goals of education in terms of truth, good and life... And it should be beautiful, because that's what the triad sounds like in the neotomism doctrine: truth, goodness and beauty are attributes of the supreme creature, the creator. Here they mechanically shifted and converted beauty into life. What's the point? What's the point? Well, the one that points to the author. This author has already proposed one law, which has been pushed through, about the Zamość Academy, and there the same concepts have been applied. I recognized them immediately, because neotomism is the doctrine of the Catholic University of Lublin and is considered by some to be the doctrine of the Church. Although other philosophical doctrines also function in the Catholic Church. Well, John Paul II wasn't exactly a neotomist, but it doesn't matter. If we read into the material concerning HiT, then we have the following things. The world and Poland in the years 1956 and 1970. The student explains e.g. Jasna Góra Weddings of the Nation, well, besides a few more facts. Then: Explains the ideological and moral meaning of the pastoral program of the Primate of Poland Stefan Wyszyński, like Jasna Góra's Weddings of the Nation, Great Novena, Millennium celebrations, etc., indicates the merit of the Church. Next: the role of the Catholic Church during the martial law period and the 2 pilgrimages of John Paul II during that period. Then John Paul II initiated the revolution of the spirit, then explained what was the vision of the construction of the Third Independence presented in Poland in 1991 by St. John Paul II. These are the topics that should be in religious classes. There are religious lessons. Why push such topics into a place where history and the present are to be, that is, knowing what is going on with us, beyond us, etc.? This character is simply dominant here. There are also many proposals that come directly from the ideology of Law and Justice, e.g. Explaining the concept of post-communism... [[Timer signal]] ...as a permanent development barrier. Does anyone know the definition of post-communism? I don't. I don't know that definition. Another issue: the ideology of political correctness, family, marriage and gender against the background of cultural changes in the Western heritage. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. Parliamentary elections, which were the most important, most important, elections in 1991 and the appointment of the government of Jan Olszewski. Not the Mazowiecki government, but the Jan Olszewski government. After all, this is all the indoctrination of children and young people. And that's why you create a tooling in the form of pressure on directors. It is possible to remove them, to force them into certain behaviors, actions they would not normally have taken. It's all about everybody. It concerns our children, our grandchildren. This is a rehearsal. not only to build a new society, but also to create a new human being. It didn't work once, and it's not gonna work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just the fact that we've been debating this bill for a long time. I am talking here about the Law on amending the Law of Education and some other laws, Senate prints No. 613, 613 A and 613 B show that the subject is important, the subject arouses great emotions, not only in parliament. There is a lively discussion in various social environments, including educational environments, teaching environments, local communities and other environments. Unfortunately, in this debate and in the approach to the law, it seems that the current policy has been imposed. And what I criticized in the Polish educational system, i.e. I'm not saying whose fault it was because it's not like someone very specific, one person or one government is responsible for it. That the educational reform has not been completed. She in a structural sense, and above all in the field of the organisation of the education system in Poland and the financing of education in Poland is unfinished, because, to be brief, we are dealing with such a system in which part of the educational tasks are financed through the educational subsidy. And this mechanism itself introduces disputes known for years, not for recent years, but for many years, concerning whether this subsidy is sufficient or not enough, how many local governments have to add, in which situation in particular are these rural authorities, the poorest, where the cost of one student It is necessary to simply say to itself that it is the highest, because the classes are not full, they are not numerous, and the teacher must be employed, and maintain institutions where often even the structure of the buildings is for a much larger number of students, for example because of the demographic inferiority, than those who attend these institutions. And these self-governments are actually in a difficult situation. These disputes are known and raised. It appears that the logical consequence of these changes occurred after 1989, i.e. Self-government, introduction of three-step self-government in Poland, which is a constitutional requirement... All of this, if taken into account together, would also require ordering the financing system of broadly understood education in Poland. Perhaps we should return to the solution used in Poland. I am thinking here of introducing the principle that the government is responsible for salaries for teachers, in short, and for school infrastructure, the local government is responsible for the buildings. This model has already been used in the past. And then, if there are conflicts, let's say, on the payroll side of the teacher's environment, you know where to direct the demands, and if there are other problems, you know. And right now, we have a system that's all by itself, let's call it conflictogenic. There is also the issue of pedagogical supervision, which has been widely discussed here. What can the parole officer do and what can't the parole officer do? Well, High Izbo, I'm going to put the idea that unfortunately there's no degree of symmetry between pedagogical supervision and curators' competences and the competence of the host body, whether it's a municipality or a county, depending on the level of education that exists in the given area. And in this respect, in my opinion, it was necessary to launch a serious debate on what this is supposed to look like in reality. But that's what politics is all about. It is well known that some local governments, especially those in large cities, remain in a rather large conflict or political dispute with the current government administration. I don't want to go into details and stuff anymore, but that's a fact. That's a fact, and that's something to remember. And I personally regret that this law, which we could quietly discuss in substance and perhaps modify some of the records if the majority, after such a debate, thought it worth doing so, and in the Seym, and in the Senate... Well, this debate has actually been limited. It can be said that, in principle, this current debate in the Senate is unnecessary because there is a motion to reject the bill and all this indicates that this proposal will be in favour, say, of 2 hours or when we will vote there, accepted. And there was a pragmatic approach, and we could say that we had to vote on this proposal, and we could not have this discussion. But since we are having this discussion, there is a need for some reflection and reflection on the educational system on the part of Parliament. That is why I would not put an end to this discussion and this debate that is currently underway. She's very important, it matters. Another issue is the implementation of a constitutional standard. Here I am thinking about the right of parents to raise their children according to their views and beliefs. This is a very strong constitutional standard. I happen to know all kinds of situations. I know what it was like to carry out these tasks, i.e. those extra classes that were held at school. Often parent supervision was very illusory, so to speak. Well, it was a decision of the parents' council. Often, the teacher made such decisions individually and did not particularly care about all these procedures. I say it with all my responsibility because I know schools where they were invited. politicians of opposition options, and as some of the students and parents wanted to invite a policy with another option... It was supposed to be a civic lesson, with a clear statement of who's who. I'm not talking about extracurricular activities here. At that time it turned out that, depending on the attitude of the teaching group or the management, some could not, others could not. Well, I'm not surprised the resort made that decision. I personally am in favour of separating it very clearly. I'm not against that, for example. MPs in their territory took part in various lessons. I did it myself in my constituency, in northern Mazowsze, in Przasnysz, in Ciechanów or elsewhere. I took part in this because I was invited, but right away, at the beginning, I told my students that I was a senator from this district, that I was in a political, parliamentary club like this. Moreover, discussions were also organised with parliamentarians representing different options, but this was clearly announced. I think that such civic lessons are very positive, of course, while maintaining these very rules. But if you take a shortcut, then you can then actually charge the school with indoctrinating one way or the other, that it is an instrument of some kind of indoctrination, political or ideological. As a parliamentarian, I believe that the problem of these activities has been well recognised by President Andrzej Duda, who at one time proposed a law in this area which would clarify the rules for participation by various subjects or speakers, even in the context of such familiarisation of pupils with specific professions. Well, there were lessons that a policeman would come to, and someone who was doing some kind of profession would come in so-called. An interesting man, and just the students could ask him questions. If someone had an interest in this direction, he could confront live images of his future profession or of his passion with the person who is doing it and has some work to do in this regard. And I personally believe that this mechanism, very strong... [[Timer signal]] It's a two-way street. He's pretty well described in this bill. Of course, many details of this law could be discussed, including the question that I raised in the questions to the Minister. I mean, remote teaching, which has now met with one, let's call it... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I know, I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. Can I use those five minutes right away? It's like you're a marshal... Do I have to sign up again? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please, but...]] Yes? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Exceptionally.]] Okay, I'll just finish. Thank you very much, Marshal. I won't be absorbing my High House for the second time. Well, this remote teaching, Minister, involves various difficulties. Of course, it was a necessity, a force higher, there was no other formula, but I think the NIK report, which on this subject was produced, a report about very limited access, especially in smaller centers, to computers, to software, to skills... It's also about organizing care, but the most important thing in this whole case is the mental condition, the personality of the students who are deprived of... Whoever has children in school now knows that practically 3 years has not been a normal lesson throughout the school year. There were teacher strikes at the time, then there were two pandemic years, i.e. Those who will now be writing their M.A. if I count well, and were still in the 3-year system, in fact they didn't have a single year in high school, which would have run in a relatively normal way when it comes to the organisation of classrooms, i.e. in the school building. I'm not talking about younger children who have a lot of problems when they're home alone. Therefore, I do not blame my parents for the fact that they generally oppose this way of organizing classrooms. And there is another important element, namely the quality of this teaching. Another is teaching in a situation of direct contact between the teacher and the student, while others in a remote system where and can mark participation, and it is difficult to have focused attention on what is happening on the screen, all the time, for 8 hours a day. So these are the problems facing Polish education. I do not think that all these issues will be resolved. It seems to me that when it comes to remote teaching, Minister, it would be worth thinking about a separate, separate law that would clarify the educational system in Poland. I think, on the occasion of this law, gmeran... I was wondering whether to make an amendment in this regard or not, but in the end I gave up because it is simply impossible, in my opinion, to settle these issues with one amendment. But it seems to me that the problem is and is worth thinking about, also in the context of other situations, such as the Minister's motivation, such as the fact that the school burned down or others, not necessarily connected with the pandemic, when it is impossible to conduct lessons on a stationary basis. High Izbo, in conclusion, I would like to say this: I think it is a great pity that unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to make such a calm one, although I am not saying that this debate is now restless, but at all in Parliament to hold a peaceful debate on this subject and perhaps to consider introducing amendments that would improve this law. Then, in a different atmosphere, we would be working on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I ran to speed things up. I will say that after this hearing today and 1 February in our committee, I have an opinion on this subject. As I said, since 1 July 1990, for 16 years I have been the head of upper secondary school, a very large school, then for 12 years I was the president of the city and I know that schools have managed and managed in terms of management, in terms of construction and quality of this tangible school, e.g. buying equipment, and of course in terms of teaching quality, transfer of knowledge. There are 2 authorities, one is a leading authority at different levels and the other is a pedagogical supervisor. As principal of the school, I was very supportive of cooperation. But in those days, at the time of the creation of this new Poperelic education, it was very nice. Those 16 years were my most beautiful years of work. At that time, the curatorium did not have any political pressure to introduce ideology, rather it helped directors, teachers and students to care for the quality of teaching. Senator Jackowski said we're worried about graduation. Yeah, we're worried about graduation, because right now, the biggest problem for us is the pandemic. After us practically 3 years of remote teaching, and teachers, students and parents were not prepared and are still not prepared to teach and learn remotely. What's the quality of that? I read in public information or even in the analysis of scientists that soon the passability of high school exams in Poland could be at 50%. That's not what this is about. Now there's this pandemic, we have a big problem with the quality of teaching, and the ministry throws these cuckoo eggs. I'm not gonna say I'm not in favour of changes in education, amendments. For common sense, yes, but not for wearing a muzzle. The Minister was calm to say that there would be no problem with the directors. Believe me, I have friends of directors who don't want to go to the competitions anymore, although they can. Believe me, some schools don't want to be principal, just listen to what they say: see what lex the Blackman dictates. I do not want to prolong, because I want to be in my beloved city of Kolobrzeg today, but at the end I will say this: the consequences of these changes will be very far-reaching, they will hinder the creativity of thinking, freedom of speech and building attitudes on the basis of universal values. Instead of slimming off programs, taking care of teachers, equiping schools to prepare them for any civilizational changes, we go back to school several decades ago. I remember twice in my career I invited President Lech Wałęsa. These were beautiful meetings, as young people expected them, as young people wanted them to organize a second meeting like this. Now, if the director in Kolobrzeg requested such a meeting, would a political probation officer agree? This is very questionable. I can say from my experience, as principal of the school, the president: don't disturb the education, support it wisely, wisely, not politically using your unhealthy ideology. The Minister said that I don't know if it's a year 1 billion zloty goes to the equipment of schools, etc., etc. But if you were to count the money that local governments are putting up right now Not long ago, when I was president, I added 40, 42, 43% to education. And right now it's 50, 55, 60%. That would turn out to be billions. Let's imagine, or let's not imagine without this. for Polish education to function. And is it said, if what lex czarnek says was voted out... Well, the director hires a lead organ, an old man, a marshal, a president, a governor, a mayor, and the parole board fires him, also for political reasons, believe me, there would be a reason for that too. Who would pay compensation after court? Who would pay for this? Self-government? Self-government is about keeping the schools warm, heating them up so they can have electricity, and he doesn't need the big problems that this lex crime is causing him. And by the way, legally speaking... Well, this is where the first lawyers with professor's titles sat and said it was breaking the law, as it was said here. There's a violation of the law in this bill, but I don't think the Ministry sees it. Therefore, as a director with many years of experience, as a teacher and as a former president of the city, seeing how schools work and how they should continue to do so, I ask that the ministry, no matter what political arrangement they manage, do not interfere with, but create good, non-ideological programs, otherwise as in the 1950s, we, Young people, we did not know what Katyn was, so soon our young people will not know who fought for democracy of modern Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today's debate, as well as the work in the commission on the project or on the law on amending the law on education and some other laws, shows us that we are practically debating at this moment the system, the functioning of education in Poland. As a participant in the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I must say that it actually was there is a rather large, long debate, because the meeting lasted over 4 hours, but it must also be said that it was de facto there is little substantive discussion about the law itself, about the project itself. In fact, there was a discussion, a debate on the education system, and the people who came and represented the various institutions were also represented by the presidents of large cities. They have simply submitted negative assessments, but in principle they have a negative assessment of the whole. You can also ask a question It was placed here. Why there were no representatives at this meeting of the local government committee who had a different view. Somehow, by some odd coincidence, there were only those who had a negative attitude towards the bill. Notabene, it must be said that there was virtually no question to the Minister about the bill, about the solutions. We didn't debate, we didn't think, and there was no discussion about what to change, what to improve, just there was a total opposition: you have to throw the bill in the trash. Working at this committee meeting was basically a public hearing. That's the way to say it. It wasn't the committee's work. But that was her character, we did it. And you have to say, since we're talking about this law, it's an art. 43 says: the Minister coordinates and implements the education policy of the State. I'm saying this now, I was talking at the committee meeting and I'm going to repeat a little bit here. Art. 52: Education curator pursues the educational policy of the state. The Minister responsible for Education and Education is responsible for the management of this education. The main issue here, too, was the concept and role of pedagogical supervision. Supervision in the theory of administrative law includes elements of control and the possibility of issuing orders and prohibitions. The pedagogical supervision shall be carried out by the education curator, who shall be supervised by the competent Minister for Education and Education. The exercise of pedagogical supervision is not the supervision of local self-government units, i.e. in this sense it does not affect, in my opinion, the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No If it were otherwise, as it was claimed here, that this law infringes this Article. The current supervision by the curator would be unconstitutional. Well, we'd turn around, flip the whole school system in the country. And we cannot lead to the situation that every director or every president, mayor or mayor will create his own education policy and teaching. After all, we have universities, we need to prepare for higher education in a uniform way, organized throughout the country. There were a number of articles thrown out, they said that with this constitutional article, with this and this... I don't share that view. This is a government submission, the government's legislative office was dealing with this case and did not say such irregularities. Let me just give you one of these examples. I'm gonna go It's a famous art. 1 the Constitution, this issue was also addressed at the committee meeting, and today in the debate. In my opinion, this law is certainly not in breach of Article. 1, which says that the Republic is the common good of all citizens, because above all the concept of common good in the Constitution is not defined, and therefore it is difficult to say that something is contrary to something that is not defined. The case law of the Constitutional Tribunal shows... The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with this issue and considered it in its various judgments, which is a common good. This is state existence and protection of independence. The State itself is a constitutional value in accordance with a number of other judgments. There were various statements here. Someone said I didn't wish for it, somebody else said I didn't wish for it. And I can say that as a senator, as a father, as a grandfather, I do not wish associations or other organizations to conduct classes with students at school or institution without any control or supervision. I want the parent to be sure that if he's giving the child to school, if he sends the child to school... that there's a certain program going on there. He can't be surprised, it can't be that the baby will come back and say that someone came, no one knows where, and presented one or another... Well, we're in the state of law, and unfortunately we have to follow the rules. In the end, I'm gonna go back to... Definitely... It was shown here that the bill was so... I'm definitely in favour of this bill. She will serve Polish school well, I am deeply convinced of it. But there were also charges against the government, they said the government would resign. Well, total opposition, you know, at any time, at any time, can claim that the government is incompetent, and tell him to resign. I say that Poland is developing primarily because it has a strong government. If there wasn't such a government in this crisis period where we got hit by a pandemic, I don't know what would have happened. We've heard and heard it all the time. Wouldn't we be looking for buttons? Where would we find these buttons? There are no buttons like that. We have more than 5% economic growth. According to estimates by the Central Statistical Office in 2021 it was 5.7%. This is practically comparable to what's in China. When the pandemic hit us... It hit not only Poland, not only the economy of Poland, but also the European and global economy. And actually in 2020 there was a decrease, there was a negative result, there was 2.5% but by 2021 there was already an increase, it was 8.2%. Don't you see that? Recolonization of banks. What did the government do? He introduced shields and aid programs. Construction of the Central Communication Port and the entire infrastructure associated with it, which is intended to serve Poland in the future for even greater development. Dig through the Vistula Mill. The National Bank of Poland purchases gold, increased the percentage share of gold in Polish foreign reserves. We are now, according to respect, the sixth economy of Europe. All the time here... In a number of different debates on laws, we hear here all the time how incompetent the government is, etc., etc. Have you forgotten what schools looked like before? How many sports halls have arrived? Under what conditions did the students learn? There were periods when chalk was missing, wages were short. What is the level of the teacher's salary today? I'm meeting with local governments and against... I have other contacts than those that were at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The positions and votes of the local government are positive. But when you invite only one group and one zone, then yes and no different shape is formed or is trying to shape the view of the whole House. To conclude my speech, I will vote in favour of the bill without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u149	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Margaret Kopiczko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u150	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! In public space there is information about changes to the law on education. Unfortunately, this information raises unnecessary anxiety and unnecessary confusion. The most important objective of the change is to ensure transparency of the content provided to children in additional extracurricular activities. 2 months before the beginning of the course, the organisation is to report the content and materials that will be used for an opinion to the curator. The curator makes such content available and every parent has an opportunity to familiarize take part in what classes the children will attend. Ladies and gentlemen, as principal of the school, I have always been familiar with such content. When an organization went to school, I wanted to read the content, the program, and then it was also presented to the parents' council. In the proposed law, not only parents' advice but also all parents can read the curriculum. And that, I think, is a significant strengthening of the role of parents. If organizations do not want to share the proposed activities, the content, it means that they have something to hide, because so normally we as teachers have the right and the obligation to read the program, the same as parents. So this change is designed to prevent situations where it simply lacks control over these content. The probation officer has 30 days to answer. If the answer is not given, this means that the recommendation on these activities is positive. Another important change is the withdrawal mechanism for directors. It is not true that the alleged dismissal of school heads now by the curator will be widespread. It is only the exclusive government that can dismiss the Director in accordance with the law. The only change in pedagogical supervision is that we need to enforce the follow-up recommendations. These recommendations concern the implementation of the programme basis, the implementation of the programme basis, whether teaching or educational. Always, no matter what control it is. The head of the school is required to determine how these recommendations should be implemented. If he is unable to follow a recommendation, he simply makes an explanation, and he has a seven-day deadline. And if, even after 7 days, the school principal fails to explain, he will not comply with these post-control recommendations, as I say, in terms of only teachings and education, then the curator has the right - He's got the right. - apply to the Authority for the cancellation of the Director. The court shall also be entitled to appeal. So it's not like the parole officer's calling off the principal. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's really... I've been a director for over 20 years, and I haven't met my colleagues in the Warmia-Mazury voivodship, with the situation that any director doesn't comply with the audit recommendations, because they're about the basics of programming, education law. And it can't be like we're not gonna make a recommendation. We can do it in such a way or in other ways, or we can make an appropriate explanation. And, as I say, these are some occasional cases when that's the case. So that, ladies and gentlemen, this misinformation that you are promoting here is an unnecessary concern and confusion. I thank the Ministry very much for preparing this bill. I will, of course, vote positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u151	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first issue is of a terminology nature. Well, some of you here call the bill we're dealing with, lex Czarnek. You want to offend Minister Czarnek? Is that what this is about? I don't know why you're so classified. We're the ones making this bill, and there's just a proposal from the ministry. What's the point of this kind of private tours? That's the first line. Two. To whom can this law serve or not serve? Contrary to what was raining here from the other side of the room, she practically doesn't apply to teachers at all. I'm talking about an amendment. Teachers are mentioned Only in professional relationships, perhaps, in one of the paragraphs, and in the educational information system. Why are you scaring the environment? The real point is to increase parental rights and increase children's rights In my opinion, children's rights are more important here than in all education. And you're trying to get public attention to make it look like it's the rights of outsiders, out-of-schoolers, that's what's important. No, they're auxiliary. If we have a conflict on the child's right line, the right of such an organisation or the alleged right, then we will always choose the right of the child. And in relation to that, I'm going to say yes. One of the previous speakers, from the senators, complained that he was not wanted, I say in quotes, to let the schools into the lecture. Well, that's right, because already in the current state of law... Art. 86 without this amendment prohibits activities in schools from political parties and political organisations. [[But I'm not a political party or any political organization.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please calm down. Now Senator Czerwinski speaks. Please don't disturb me. There you go.]] You've got a lot of explaining to do. We're all politicians here. The fact that the headmaster of a given school or, practically speaking, heads of all schools refuse to let politicians into schools, I think it's right. I think it's the right thing to do. I would have chased him too. And I've never done anything like this before when I was a senator, and I've never made such an application. Well, maybe on request... not on request, but at the principal's request, but not during school classes, just to make the place available to the general public, not to indoctrinate young people... [[What indoctrination?]] And it's completely inappropriate for me to consider this to be an act... Wait, where was that... City of Dobczyce and Tour de Constitution. A group of judges who have long ceased to be judges They're half celebrities, half politicians. He runs an action, a typical political action. About who? For young children From kindergarten and primary school. What did those kids in kindergarten do to them? Well, indeed, such a phenomenon... [[And Mr Meiz?]] ...you have to fight back. I'm not talking about this anymore... 2019, June, probably, and a famous discussion about WHO recommendations on sexual education at school. After all, some local governments In other words, even a degree higher, the directors did not decide or, I say in quotes, threatened to be so-called. educators are allowed to enter schools with such content. If you want, I'll remind you what the content was, what it was called to teach small children from elementary school or even preschool as part of sexual education. Well, that kind of pathology needs to be addressed. This law, of course, deals with these issues, but above all, it deals with issues related to the broad understanding, generally, of education, including education, for which the Ministry of National Defence is responsible, it needs to be made clear. I'm a member. Committee on National Defence and I believe that these changes are being made Especially at this time, which we are now seeing, a time of far-reaching tension and uncertainty. They are very important and will have a positive impact on both educational and defence issues. And that's why it's worth the bill. She is certainly not, as most here and some hired specialists claim, unconstitutional. First, it can only be decided by the Constitutional Tribunal, and only him, and only when the bill is at the signature stage of the President This is theoretically possible or the legislative process has already ended. And secondly, I've heard so many times of these various constitutional specialists and of this speaker, and of the grandstands, and in the various broadcasts, that, ladies and gentlemen, I think they can prove everything, even that I am currently unconstitutionally breathing, that the fact that I'm breathing is not in accordance with the constitution. Well, they're just hired people who pay for money. I don't know what kind of non-constitutionality they're trying to prove in such a way and not in any other way. But here's the basic issue. Because these problems are actually due to double supervision, which is also due to the double responsibility of the individual authorities of the State. On the one hand, local government, district government, less voivodship, is responsible for organisational, financial and organizational issues. On the other hand, the state is responsible for substantive issues, I would say, i.e. didactics, education, childcare and youth care, and in the field this country represents the school curator. And the question is, do we want to keep this division or not? Well, if you don't want to keep it, because you really criticized that division, then say it clearly. And if you want this division to be preserved, then if one supervisory group, i.e. self-government, has the right, has sanctions, if in matters related to the organisation of education No, e.g. roof leaks, there is no possibility of conducting classes in the usual way The government is interfering, so give the possibility of interference and sanctions to the other party who has pedagogical supervision. That's basic. Well, if there's no sanctions, that's when we have Dobczyce and those constitutional fireworks for kindergarteners. There's no other way. Well, if the law is to be applied, it has to be sanctioned, one way or the other. And that's... I'm sad, unfortunately, to think it's just coming out of the wrong... It's about some of these people, the serious ones of course, because it's not about acting performances or those jokes, the unspeakable jokes that are being preached in this speaker. It just comes out of a bad understanding of the role of constitutional self-government at all. Self-government is not an autonomous body. Self-government in our system, in our constitution, has no legislative or judicial powers, but only executive powers. Well, unfortunately, it is, or maybe lucky for me, for luck. Art. 163 of the Constitution says: the local government performs public tasks, and I would add that it is said earlier that in the field of enforcement, in this field of public authority, not reserved by the constitution or law, and therefore also by laws it is possible to do so, for the authorities of other public authorities. So the self-government has a presumption of competence, in particular the municipality, because it is basic, but in education, as I said, it is about each of the levels of self-government, but only those that are not exercised by another authority. And that's it, that's it, that's it. That means... [[Timer signal]] ...if we passed the law on pedagogical supervision... [[Timer signal]] ...in terms of education, teaching and child care and youth care for the country... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, last sentence. If that is the case, it means that the state has a monopoly in this area. Let me repeat: Monopoly Of course, there may also be non-public or non-public schools with public status... But in the field of public schools and pedagogical supervision, you have a monopoly on them. Well, that's just the way it is. [[Voice from the room: I can't believe you're saying this, I can't believe it.]] Well, that's your problem. And to recap: if this is to be real supervision, it's these powers... or this kind of makeshift, which some activities have encountered, in a way out of law, it's about these Dobczyce famous, about this sexual upbringing... Well, that's something... Of course, we can agree that this is going to be in our reality... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, you already had...]] ...but I don't think we should accept it. Everything else is didaskalia, and this law contains much more articles, much more regulations All for the benefit of parents and children. And that's what's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u153	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u154	It's coming right up. I must say at the outset that the Senators of PiS have convinced me: this law should be strongly rejected. They convinced me in two ways. Firstly, they were so inconsistent in their arguments that the senators themselves denied themselves and said that school autonomy was not at risk... Do you hear me? This is for us: school autonomy is not at risk. And then another senator came out and said, there's no such thing as school autonomy, there's university autonomy, but there's no school autonomy. We also have opinions that the law is not read, and therefore the opinions expressed about it are inadequate. And then there's the merit calculation. In quotation marks The National Bank of Poland, the executions of the Central Airport etc., etc., which really replaces the real argument that should appear here. What I would like to say in summary and protest against the opinions expressed, and I must repeat this: the less countries, the less party state, the ideological state at school, the better for the school. Less, not more bureaucracy. Let us not burden the school with additional bureaucratic activities. Let us make the school a place to react quickly to events that take place both in Poland and in the world. Let's make the school more open, not more concrete. I would like to stress that the concepts of monopoly, nationalisation, nationalization are not categories of values for which the Senate of the Republic of Poland should speak. We should strive to ensure that our educational models are varied, flexible, responsive, giving real competence, less burdened by various rigors. And let us not look for excuses because we have not found these excuses in this debate. Let me remind you of the arguments that were made: parents' wishes for more State interference, because the school is at risk. He's in danger, but by the state! For a moment I also watched the discussions in the cockroaches, and I am convinced that everyone who thought how this debate was going, how much is there? A few dozen! The negative opinion must at least abstain and not vote in favour without amendments to this law, a law with so many shortcomings. Let me remind you, there are nearly 60 negative opinions. The opinions of the Senate Legislative Office are negative, devastating; the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office are negative; the opinions of the law professors on our best If one person says you're drunk, the other, five, seven, ten, it's time to lie down. And we have a situation in which we are not talking about third-rate things, we are talking about absolutely first-rate education, about children, about responsibility. So let us be responsible for these children, for the state, for education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you... Senator Marek Komorowski, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u156	Five more minutes. You provoked me Senator Zdrojewski to perform because he accused me of... I was talking about the National Bank of Poland, about the Central Communication Port, but I would just like to draw your attention to Senator Zdrojewski, that it was not a substitute argument for the legal act, but it was a reaction to the previous Senator's speech. I'm not gonna mention a name here anymore. He accused the government of incapacity and proposed that the government resign. Therefore, in the context of polemics... I don't know if Senator Zdrojewski was in the courtroom or not at the time, but in a dispute with that senator whose name I won't mention here, at the end of the argument I just wanted my position, opposite to what he presented, to pass on. And I did part of it. It wasn't on my side as if it were a substitute, doesn't mean I have nothing to say about this bill, etc., etc. We may differ in our views on the functioning of the school. Mr. Senator has that view, I have another one. I meet in my environment, I talk to people, and they expect a safe school, teaching at a certain level. The point is that we know what we're learning, not that somebody with something new is gonna come in and do something. To conclude, once again, I am in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u157	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Janusz Pęcherz, Ewa Matecka, Halina Bieda, Aleksander Szwed, Władysław Komarnicki, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Benjamin Godyla, Wojciech Ziemniak, Jolanta Hibner, Ryszard Majer, Gabriela Morawska-Stanicka, Marek Pęk, Artur Dunin presented their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, which is after the 4:00 p.m. recess. I now announce a recess until 4:00 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Communication on the meeting of 3 joint committees: the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence. The meeting will take place 5 minutes after the adjournment in halls 176/179 to examine the applications submitted during the thirty-sixth Senate meeting. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 23 to 16 minutes 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u159	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 16 and 17 February 2022. The agenda for this meeting will, of course, be provided to you by electronic means. There are already 7 or 8 acts, and there may be a few more, including probably 2 urgent, with 14-day mode. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 625 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on education and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 613 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! The committees mentioned by your marshal recommend that this proposal be rejected without amendment. Votes: 16 for, 9 against, 2 senators abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u161	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As I had the opportunity to express at the beginning this point as rapporteur for minorities, this is an important act. During the debate, it may not have been numerous but important voices to entrust teachers to the heads of schools. Yes, I am in favour of trusting teachers and trusting school heads, but the minimum limits necessary to preserve the community are essential for maintaining social cohesion. The question arises: where do we put them as legislators? There is no doubt that the content provided at school should be in line with the wishes of parents who have a constitutional right to do so, as well as adapted to the age and emotional maturity of children and young people. It cannot be that in schools without the knowledge and consent of parents, rainbow Fridays are held. During the debate, some content was also questioned... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Marshal, the debate is over!]] [[The senator is reporting on the committee's work, and I hope he's gathering...]] [[Voice from the room: But...]] [[... Report on the proposal supported by a minority of joint committees. I think the senator, as an experienced professor, will focus on the substance of the subject.]] [[An hour and a half of lecture.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate, we were questioned about the inclusion of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński or John Paul II in the program basis, and were referred to the teaching of religion. So what is the 20th century history of Poland? Who built an independent society that time? Who was the co-author of 1989 change? What's the truth? Maybe different truths. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I have a serious question. Was there a vote or was there a discussion?]] [[Mr. Senator, I understand that the minority is making a motion to adopt a law without amendment. Yes?]] Mr. Marshal, there's a clock. I've got nine minutes and 40 seconds left. Can I use this time? [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, this was not at the committee meeting. What are you talking about?]] [[The clock was switched on right now. If you think this is necessary to present a minority proposal, I'm giving you 7 minutes because you've already said three minutes.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think it'll be shorter. The most important thing is that there are many important issues in this bill, not just the one on which we have focused our attention. I counted them and discussed them at the beginning of our debate: remote teaching, military troops, cultural education, textbooks, Educational Information System and many others. This law is probably not perfect, but no one wanted to correct it, so I repeat the motion of the minority of the joint committees to adopt it without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Discredit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u163	Thank you. Thank you, Senator. Does the other Senator, Senator Janusz Błucherz, who was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, still want to speak? [[No. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 30]] [[Applause]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law "Educational Law" and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The subject matter of the statement must not be the matter of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski was the first to sign up for the statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My first statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki participated in an important event in Szczecin 4 years ago, because he nailed a hammer board to the keel under the great project of the government of PiS, a government which declared the construction of passenger shuttles in Poland. Today's news, the news is that the keel has been turned to scrap metal. Poland Baltic Shipping, or actually not quite... [[Impossible, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, I'm surprised, too. ...she put that keel on a piece of junk. They asked any companies that buy junk for how long they'd buy back that keel. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mateusz Morawiecki what actions he is going to take in the case of people who have caused a waste of about PLN 15 million, because so much has been spent on this whole pic, hochsztapler In fact, I do not know what harsh words to use and waste, a total of PLN 15 million. What action is he going to take directly with regard to the ministers, to the Minister of the Grybarczyk responsible for the project that just ends with scrap metal? Is he going to notify the D.A.? What will be the consequences for others who are responsible for the loss of PLN 15 million? This is my first statement. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. The cost that the government has given us applies to all hospitals. All hospitals, even after the reduction introduced by the Special Gas Act, will pay significantly more for heat or electricity. On the example of a voivodship hospital, one hospital in Koszalin, I can say that so far the hospital has paid for electricity within 1 million 500 thousand. After these changes, which the PiS government is funding, it will pay about PLN 4 million per year only for electricity. For heat energy, gas is estimated to be up to PLN 10 million. I would like to ask you how the National Health Fund, the Minister of Health, intends to reimburse hospitals for these increased costs, because hospitals are not able to bear such significantly high amounts increasing the costs of the functioning of these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u165	Please take the floor and make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, and concerns patients with hepatocellular cancer, of course, in Poland, who are currently being treated incorrectly. Maybe a few words about this cancer. Hepatic cell carcinoma, which is hepatocellular carcinoma, briefly called HCC, is a hepatocellular cancer of the liver, which accounts for 80 all liver cancers. Treatment includes: surgery, ablation, chemoembolization, radiotherapy only metastases. Chemotherapy is not recommended because chemotherapy is broken down by the liver. In the world... I'll tell you right away that the idea came to me from the hepatological coalition. People with hepatocellular carcinoma have asked for their rescue. It is 250 to 300 people a year. They wrote that despite the breakthrough in the treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, which occurred in front of our eyes last year, this disease is still a white stain on the cancer map in Poland. According to the guidelines of the European Society for Clinical Oncology and recommendations of Polish clinical experts, a new breakthrough therapy using athesolizumab in combination with bevacizumab should be a standard of first line treatment. I'll add that these are the medications of the signal trails. Athesolizumab is an inhibitor of numerous tyrosine kinases, whereas bevacizumab is an antiangiogenic medicine. This is at the moment the standard of first line treatment in Europe. Each year in Poland, 2 to 3 000 people suffer from this cancer. These people may be treated for liver transplantation, including liver transplantation, but between 250 and 300 people will have no chance of life, Minister, if this drug is not registered and will not be refunded. It is registered in 60 countries and is refunded, among others. in Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark or the United Kingdom. Why must Poland always be in such therapies at the gray end? I ask, Minister, to lean on the life and health of patients and to answer the question of when the treatment recommended by European gremia and Polish experts will be available to Polish patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u167	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz is making a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I address Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Minister of Finance. I visited Newhut dairy bars and Cracow dairy bars together with councillors Łukasz Sęk and Bogusia Drabik. We've had meetings with residents and people who use these bars. Here's the statement I'm handing over to the Minister. Minister, I was asked to help entrepreneurs running dairy bars and the people of Krakow who used them. They fear that, with high inflation and higher operating costs, the current level of the individual subsidy for dairy bars is not sufficient to continue to function. Milk bars have been providing warm meals for years mainly to people with low income. These facilities can offer lower prices that are not available elsewhere thanks to the grants received. There are four places in Nowa Huta that have grown into the neighborhood's landscape for years and have allowed many people to buy meals. Unfortunately, a significant increase in energy, gas, labour and food costs makes it inefficient to maintain these bars. Owners don't have the resources to pay for them. This grant has only increased by 0,5% year-to-year and inflation was around 8% at that time. Dairy bars are very popular. The biggest problem is not the lack of willingness to buy meals, but the increase in costs in the absence of compensation for this increase. I appeal to the Minister for a substantial increase in the subjective subsidy to dairy bars, a minimum to inflation levels in recent times. This is the only thing that could ensure the continued functioning of these essential places. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u169	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Minister of Education and Science, and concerns the opposition to the reduction of education subsidies for teaching the languages of national and ethnic minorities for 2022. Dear Minister, I strongly object to reducing educational subsidies for teaching the languages of national and ethnic minorities. The project will deprive many students of learning German in the Opole Voivodeship. This action is a huge blow to the local minority. This incomprehensible decision generates far-reaching consequences. First of all, it strikes good international relations with our neighbours, which we should continue to seek in the face of the armed conflict in Ukraine. The amendment adopted is also a blow to local governments, which allocate funds to small educational institutions. Reducing their funding can contribute to the closure of many schools and the dismissal of teachers working in them. As president of the Polish-German Senate Group in November 2021, during my visit to Germany, I was invited to a meeting at the Ministry of Education of North Rhine-Westphalia and to a demonstration lesson in Polish language. I found out personally that the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany are helping our fellow countrymen take care of our culture, language and tradition. Unfortunately, a project adopted in Poland limiting the rights of minorities can have negative consequences from other countries towards our citizens. On the hand of the Minister of Education and Science, along with this statement, I appeal to the Sejmik of the Opole Voivodeship to this issue once again asking for a change of decision and the restoration of educational aid for teaching the languages of national and ethnic minorities in 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u171	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor for a statement from Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the railroad. It's marazm, it's bad on the Polish railroad. It is difficult to say that the Polish railroad is developing. As we know, ticket prices, passenger costs are starting to rise. On some episodes of Intercity wants to raise ticket prices by 70%. They pumped into the Polish railroad, speaking colloquially, big money, but the effects of passengers do not feel. The passenger transport rate has fallen, we have already had 20% compared to road transport, and it is below 10%. Similarly, in the commodity, this indicator fell, we had more than 20%, and we have less than 10%. It's marazm, it's a mess, there's no cooperation, the money's badly invested, and the investments that are dragging on. And so on. on the Poznan line Warsaw was supposed to last for 2 years, and it lasted for 5 years. And it's gonna last up to seven years. This money is disproportionately large. I'll tell you about the railroad in Pomerania. Line 201, the environmental decision was in 2015, but unfortunately this decision was not used. Wanted to make a new decision... It's the Gdynia line bydgoszcz. Unfortunately, until today there is no such decision, and the planned investment cost is no longer PLN 2.5 billion, as has been the case so far, only PLN 12 billion. I don't know how to invest... There's a lot of money invested in the port of Gdynia, and there's no way to get this stuff out. Likewise with the port of Gdansk. We boast about him, we say he's our power, and we start losing to the Western ports. Loads from German ports to Prague, south, from the West are transported within 7 hours to 10 hours, while from Polish ports are transported up to 12 days. And this transport costs us almost 1 thousand euros more. We're losing because we can't pull long trains, and the Germans are pulling stores that are 750 meters long. We have narrow throats that won't allow it. Besides, there's no common ticket that would be such a magnet, there's no such wide range of journeys. Of course, there are places in Poland where the marshals took care of it, such as the Łódź agglomeration, where there is this common ticket, which is perfectly realized there. But there's a lot of places that didn't work out. And it was said that this common ticket, which was to be such a magnet, will be realized throughout Poland. It is marazm, it is a mess, big money invested, and the Polish state, which invested such money, could not set targets for e.g. efficiency, e.g. How many passengers we want to transport. 240 million passengers were transported this year. Then why don't we set ourselves a goal, for example. In 2030 it was 500 million passengers. Unfortunately, such targets have not been set and no targets have been set for cargo or transport time. That money's just gonna be wasted. It's gonna be hard to fix. Money like that 76 billion... This will never happen again. The strategy for the development of transport, which is not working out, should be changed for a long time, as well as the strategy for sustainable development does not work, because it shows that it is the railway that is not to develop, that it is to reach the parameters that were before the pandemic, and this is not development. All I'm gonna say is that our neighbors are building a railroad. An example is the Czechs, whose ticket prices have fallen, the costs of access to the tracks have fallen, and, unfortunately, with us, everything goes up. It's all going in the wrong direction, we're going to lead to a fuss. The railroad, as you can see, is dying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u173	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government loves to build monuments and actually is a leader in this Not just European, but worldly. However, there has been a situation where, I think, it is worth building another monument, only this time the government, or actually an organization called PiS, Law and Justice. It is precisely today that the keel was put up for sale in Szczecin, which is an excellent symbol of this government, a government that symbolizes the fall, symbolizes uncoverable declarations, symbolizes deception and lies. Therefore, I would like to refer my statement to the Poles so that we can fund a monument, a monument of Poland in ruins and this monument, shaped like this keel, set up on the street of Nowogrodzka in front of the seat of PiS. Because indeed the PiS deserves to have a special symbol, a symbol of the fall, Poland in ruins. Such a declaration was made in 2015 and, unfortunately, they are moving in this direction effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! That's a great idea. Bravo!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-04-senat-36-2.u175	Thank you, Senator. That's where we ended our statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 33]]
