ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Members Paulina Matysiak, Marcin Duszek, Piotr Sak and Franciszek Sterczewski to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Piotr Sak. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Paulina Matysiak and Marcin Duszek. I consider the minutes of the 53rd session of the Sejm to be accepted. May I ask your Members to rise? [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The sad news has come to us again, High Izbo. On 4 May this year. died Józef Leśniak - Member of the Sejm of the 8th term of office, and in 2019-2022 Vice-President of Małopolska. On 6 May this year. died Mirosław Pietrewicz - Member of the Sejm of the 3rd term of office, Professor of Economic Sciences, from 1993 to 1996 Minister - Head of the Central Planning Office, from 1996 to 1997 Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of the Treasury, member of the Monetary Policy Council for the 2004-2010 term. Let's celebrate their memory in a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Minister Przemysław Czarnek still wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's another sad piece of information. Well, on Sunday evening, May 8, you died Prof. Waldemar Paruch, the creator of the Centre for Strategic Analysis, outstanding political scientist, scientist, author of 240 publications, including 30 monographs. Excellent analyst, creator of many very valuable and relevant analyses, excellent interlocutor, excellent, excellent man, Pole devoted to his homeland. Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] May he rest in eternal peace. [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u3	High Izbo! At the 53rd meeting, the Sejm did not vote: - on the proposal to reject the report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020, - on proposals for referrals to committees submitted in the first readings: - a government draft law on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors, - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and some other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks, print No 2240. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - organic farming and organic production, - amending the Act - Environmental law and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services. The reports shall be printed in 2190, 2210 and 2226 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and the Law on the Processing of Criminal Information, - amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on government departments and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2221, 2239 and 2220 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the government draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for society. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the potential and development of offshore wind energy in Poland, including the process of granting permits for the construction and use of artificial islands, structures and equipment in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Poland, for which Parliamentary Club Law and Justice was requested. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Economy and Development - h.m. 15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Support for organic farming and organic processing - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the express road S12 - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Women's Sports - hour 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u5	Thank you. We have formal requests. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I submit a formal request for interruption and removal from the agenda of the item: Appointment of the President of the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]] Let us give President Duda and the PiS Members time to read with understanding of the GUS and Eurostat data. From these data it is clear that at the beginning of the cost we were dealing in Poland more than 2 years ago, i.e. before the pandemic. When prices fell in many European countries in 2020, prices increased in Poland. Polish inflation is the fault of the fatal policy of the President of Glapiński and the Prime Minister of Morawiecki. [[Applause]] In the end, Putin joined her. Therefore, the appointment of Adam Glapiński for the second term will no longer be a mistake, but a redecisive one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: disaster!]] We must remove Glapiński first, then remove your government in the election, and then we will advise... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Funny.]] [[Glapiński knows economics like Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u7	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dziambor, with the opposite proposal for a break, I understand, yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation has been growing regularly for more than a year. This is not putinflation, this is Kaczyński's, Morawiecki's, Glapiński's inflation. The Glapiński who said... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u9	Mr President, the counterclaim, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u10	Yeah, it's a motion against...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u11	No, please... Mr... [[Voice from the room: He wanted to justify.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u12	Conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u14	Because I have a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u15	You don't have any more.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! This is, ladies and gentlemen, inflation that has been caused by your government. The war made her stronger, but you're the ones that caused the inflation, promising people she wouldn't be there. Glapiński says we're in danger of deflation. He also said that interest rates would not be raised. Have courage, do not move this vote, hold a debate. Our request has been made. Conduct a debate on state finances, hold a debate on Glapiński. Don't postpone the vote on this, don't listen to it, to delete this point. And you guys have it. The courage to vote for these proposals to pass. Have the courage to argue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this point was discussed at the Bureau meeting and at the Convention meeting. The convention gave him an opinion. I'm not taking this item off the agenda. It's up to me. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. [[It's Terletsky's decision.]] No, sir, it is up to me to decide. [[The voice from the room: And it will relieve your conscience.]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Adam Glapiński has been the biggest pest in the Polish economy for 20 years. [[Some Members keep a banner with the inscription: Glapiński must go!]] It is a black character who talked about deflation and caused inflation, the highest inflation in Poland for 24 years. [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests.]] Responsible for the cost, responsible for the bankruptcy of Polish families. [[Voice from the room: It's not a statement.]] He is responsible for the fact that Poles feel ill in their own country. Law and Justice stopped caring for the Polish family...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u19	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u20	But you can take care of it. This is a formal conclusion, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u21	What?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u22	...to change the agenda. And a request to the President: Mr President, withdraw, personally withdraw from the notification of the biggest poisoner, muchomore of the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u23	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u24	You can choose a new, better president of the National Bank of Poland. You can do it. [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And you have to... Adam Glapiński must go, Adam Glapiński must go... [[Voices from the hall: Adam Glapiński must go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u25	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u26	... Adam Glapiński has to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u27	Then please submit such requests to the President's office... [[We put it together.]] ...not to the Sejm Chancellery. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate here. We are on formal applications, so please stick to the formal proposals. [[There's a permanent debate in Parliament.]] [[As the name suggests.]] I hope that Mr Grammar has a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u28	High Seym! I'm the son of a miner. It's a dangerous job, but it's not a job for risky people or suicides. [[Formal conclusion.]] In the last six years, six presidents have fallen from the staff carousel in JSW. Recorder - six months in position, no mining experience. The miners who report irregularities will not benefit from protection because the Polish Sejm has not passed the Act on the protection of whistleblowers. The tragic balance of recent disasters in the JSW has exceeded 20 people, 20 human lives. How many of these lives could be saved if it weren't for bad, wrong, and sometimes just stupid decisions? I ask for the adjournment of the sitting and for a return to the session when the Prime Minister will be able to provide a rational explanation of any irregularities (the Bell) that occurred in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u29	Mr President, I will not postpone the sitting of the Sejm because you are making a condition that will not be met - you should know very well - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: Will you pass any motion?]] [[But there were three requests for a recess and a continuance. We have to vote. There have been conclusions.]] Mr President, the request for a break - yes, but the condition that has been made does not fall within the formal proposal. [[The rules don't specify the condition, there was a request for a break.]] It is clear, Mr President, that it is clear. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Polska. Please. [[Why are you doing this today?]] [[It's disgusting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u30	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Today we have a dramatic situation with regard to electricity prices. On the Energy Stock Exchange, prices reach up to 1 000. PLN 1 MW. This is today a drama for the economy and for the households. On the other hand, electricity from windmills is 200 PLN for 1 MW, Prime Minister, from photovoltaics - 300, without subsidies. No grants. Prime Minister! Is there any idea to unlock energy from windmills, the one that is generally available, and to unlock energy from the sun? The Polish People's Party submitted a project to reverse this law related to photovoltaics. On the other hand, today we are applying for the 2016 Act of 10H, so-called. Act 10H, also blow up because it harms the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u31	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! I ask that the deliberations be postponed and the government's commitment to provide information on how it intends to fight the cost at energy prices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. You are again laying down a condition that cannot be met, sir. You should know that. Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's against the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u34	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party had the chance to support the Government of the United Right in the vote on 9 December and 9 December PSL together with the Platform and post-communists voted against the reform of the EU Emissions Trading System. Thanks to the EU paratax, prices of energy and heat are so high in Poland today. [[3 million of the partnerships are parataxes.]] You want lower energy prices, you want lower heat prices, support the United Right government to lift the EU parataxes. And the members of the Civic Coalition and the PSL, who were lobbyists of Russian gas not so long ago, and today they are lobbyists of German windmills, I say: enough, there is no agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u35	And lastly, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. Please. On this subject, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is the current information. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have today, tomorrow actually, to elect the President of the NBP. It's hard to imagine a worse choice. The NBP President is not only a terrible central bank president, but also has no real competence. He acts according to the principle of BMW after lifting, i.e. according to the principle of CMW: active, mediocre, faithful. [[Voice from the room: There is no such...]] His Only Competences It's that he knows the Telegraph and he's one of Kaczyński's presidents. [[Are these invectives or should it be a formal application?]] President Glapiński completely compromised himself when he called on Poles to take loans even recently and assured that the amounts of repayment would not be raised. Well, a man of honor after something like that would just blow his brains out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's nothing to count on when it comes to the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member, thank you. There was, of course, no formal application, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our formal proposals. Senior Convention to the dark living room, please. Please, I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 23 hours 10 min 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u38	I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 1: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, prints No 2133 and 2187. I would like to warmly welcome the young people from Opoczyn County, the winners of the patriotic competition ¿I love my Homeland ¿. The competition was organized by Mr Robert Telus. Welcome, young people. Young patriots. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft act on organic farming and organic production (prints No. 2180 and 2190). I kindly ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I would very kindly ask your Members to move the discussion outside the plenary room. Mr Jerzy Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft act on organic farming and organic production, print No 2180. The need to develop the proposed rules results from the need to introduce into the Polish legal order the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products. The provisions also aim to adapt the control system in organic farming to the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities. The project also pursues the objectives of the European Union in the area of food security and the development of organic production by introducing increased support for the use of certified and basic organic seed, increasing yield and quality, and consequently improving the availability of Polish organic products on the market. It also facilitates the use of fertilisers authorised for use in other European Union countries, thereby increasing the supply of fertilisers to organic producers. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission leaned on this project at two meetings, which took place on 26 April and 10 May this year. The discussion was actively attended by representatives of the social side. The Commission has taken into account some of their requests and some of them have rejected them. In conclusion, 27 amendments were tabled in the course of the work, of which 10 were accepted by the majority of committee members. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the proposal presented by the government on organic farming and production and supports its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Marek Kwitek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on organic farming and organic production. The need to adopt a new law in the Polish legal order is primarily due to two important amendments to EU law. The first concerns the revision of official controls in organic farming, while the second is due to the adoption of a new regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products. The draft law sets out in detail the powers of the authority in the organic production control and surveillance system and the functioning of a number of operators operating in the organic farming system, including certification bodies such as IJHARS, PIORiN, Central Centre for Plant Variety Research or KOWR. The solutions contained in the Act create fair conditions of market competition for all operators and protect consumers from unreliable and unreliable operators who, without applying organic production rules, would offer consumers products of poor commercial quality. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The proposed law introduces significant modifications to the current Organic Farming Act. It is impossible to discuss all the provisions contained in the contested bill. I will only refer to the very important ones that are introducing new solutions. The powers to carry out controls and certification of organic production have been transferred from the Minister responsible for Agriculture to the Chief Inspector of the IJHARS, who will also have the authority to issue guidelines and binding instructions to ensure the proper performance of the tasks carried out by the certification bodies. The draft law introduces provisions aimed at creating a single database of controlled and certified producers in organic farming, which will be available on the IJHARS website. The adoption of information on correctly completed reports of activities in organic farming will be carried out by the Regional Inspector IJHARS. The certification bodies will be required to publish the fees charged for carrying out checks and certification in organic farming. The draft law also makes it easier for fertilisers authorised in other countries of the European Union and Turkey. These fertilisers will be easier to import to Poland, which should increase their availability to organic farmers. The provisions of the Act also increase the financing of the adaptation of organic plant propagating material. It is intended to facilitate the introduction of a uniform application for consent for non-organic plant propagating material for farmers. Severe penalties have also been imposed for placing in advertising or commercial description of a product which does not comply with the organic farming rules, indications relating to organic production, which should improve the protection of consumers and producers against unfair practices. During the work of the Committee on the Law, there was a strong discussion about intensive action to support organic farming. The draft of this law, often called competence, mainly includes the implementation of EU law and cannot fully resolve issues related to the development of organic farming in Poland. In our country we have good conditions for the development of this agricultural field, but only 3.5% agricultural land is organically grown. The weakness of organic farming is high production costs, lack of developed distribution networks, fragmentation of supply and demand. Poles do not buy organic food because it is too expensive. Farmers often cannot sell their products, switch back to conventional production or find a foreign recipient. Green food is processed from the Polish raw material, where foreign producers make a lot of money. Some farms in Poland stop organic production with the end of subsidies, as without them production becomes insolvent. A thoughtful policy is therefore needed to support the production of the organic food market in Poland. Administrative barriers should also be removed, measures should be increased to promote organic food on the domestic market, which should increase customer awareness. Export opportunities must also be exploited, organic production must be combined with the development of agrotourism, organic products must be increased in collective nutrition, e.g. in schools or public institutions. The promotion of Polish organic food with the great potential of our agriculture can also translate into a positive image of Polish food products. Mrs. Marshal! The proposed provisions in the draft law provide for facilitation for organic producers and increase the availability of Polish organic products on the market, but there is still a legitimate need to work on supporting organic farming in Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Małgorzata Tracz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens I present my position towards the government's draft law on organic farming and organic production, print No 2180. It's not a good project. This is a bad bill. It is a project that, instead of removing administrative and legal barriers in organic farming, these barriers will increase and hinder the development of organic farming for many years. It is a project which is opposed by environmental organisations, as well as by organic farmers themselves, because they know that the proposed law will make it difficult for them to operate organically. After all, it is a project full of legislative errors, chaos, created in an inaccessible and inconspicuous way. Minister! Today, Polish agriculture faces great challenges and faces many crises. The war on our border, earlier the COVID pandemic, has disrupted long, globalized supply chains of fertilisers, feed and food. The climate crisis brings droughts and storms to agriculture. Between 2010 and 2020, the number of farms decreased by around 130 000, which is close to 13%, mainly small and family farms. The answer to all these challenges and problems can be organic farming, organic farming run by family farms, with short supply chains, guaranteeing food security for Poles and Poles and healthy food. Organic farming needs its constitution today, it needs good law. Unfortunately, instead of the constitution of organic farming after 2 years of work, the Ministry of Agriculture presents a legal bubel, a project in which everything was put on its head, in which instead of keeping what is good and improving what is bad, it was saved what is bad and changed to worse what was good. It is a project in which editorial and legislative chaos prevails and which really requires a thorough improvement in dozens of places. This project was discussed at two meetings of the Committee on Agriculture with a large number of representatives and representatives of the social side, organic farmers, certification bodies. These two committee meetings were actually the moment when this project collided with the wall, failing to withstand the substantive criticism of the social side. High Izbo! Today's government bill will be a brake for the further development of organic farming in Poland, and perhaps even its nail to the coffin. Either we improve this project or reject it because it is simply impossible to accept it in its present form. As the Civic Coalition, we make eight amendments to eliminate the biggest barriers and errors of this project and to unlock the development of organic farming. The first important change is the broad discussion at the committee meeting on binding guidelines, which are nothing more than a non-constitutional duplication law, which will completely destabilise organic production in Poland, and you can simply use the possibility of issuing a regulation on this matter in accordance with the constitution and common practice. The second point is to remove the absurd provision on controlling organic farmers for 5 years from the date they withdraw from organic production. It is a recipe of even repressive nature for farmers who once had organic production and which discourages those who want to start producing it. Another point is to remove the need to pass an examination for an inspector of organic farming. Poland is the only country in the European Union where inspectors have to pass a ministerial examination, so the recruitment of inspectors by certification bodies is very blocked. High Izbo! Let us remove these absurdities from the bill, otherwise we will not meet the EU's objectives of the strategy from field to table and stop the development of organic farming for many years, and we will directly bring them down. Let us quietly adopt a law that is good for organic farming and give it a chance to develop. Let us give Polish farmers and farmers a chance to unleash their potential. Let us ensure food security, healthy and ecological food for Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That should be our priority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u44	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Club will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing the government's draft law on organic farming and organic production, which, as we have heard many times during the work of the committee from the Minister's mouth, is only competent, is the technical implementation of EU legislation in this area into the Polish legal order. I completely ignore the fact that this adaptation or this technical implementation was carried out in a rather inept way, because in a rather short law, which has 38 articles. The social side and the Members have found several serious technical and substantive errors, as Mrs Tracz, my previous speaker, referred to, which unfortunately the government did not want to bend over and introduce these technical and substantive changes. This law is really about the technical issue, because this was all about the fact that EU legislation, this EU regulation had to be technically transposed into Polish legislation. The Ministry worked for four years. I get the impression that the longer the Law and Justice government is working on a bill, the bigger the legal framework is actually being created. Minister Romanowski, as I have already mentioned many times, said that this is only a technical project. And it is a pity that in the loss of 4 years of work on this very interesting and other important law called: organic farming and organic production, no one in the ministry worked hard to go a little further. If the law, as the title itself indicates, treats organic farming or organic production, then why not introduce actions in this law or start working in parallel on a law which will be a kind of stimulus to the development of organic production in Poland? The aim is to introduce pre-emptive measures, preparing Polish farmer and Polish agriculture in terms of legal, administrative or financial terms, so as to expand the still small Polish market and facilitate the entry of Polish eco products into better developing or more absorbent markets, where the consumer is not only more aware but, above all, more affluent. This agricultural production department can still be an opportunity for many small family farms in Poland. And today, as we have just heard, many of these family farms are really shutting down organic production, because administrative barriers are so huge that this law continues to expand. During the work in the Committee on Agriculture, we have heard from the Minister that if it is the will of social workers or parliamentarians, he is at his disposal. Minister, four years ago this EU regulation could have been an impulse. Today, we should have a serious debate in the Sejm about how to promote organic farming, organic production, but today we hear from you that if we want to, you are at your disposal. I think this should have happened way before. This debate should move towards how to facilitate access to eco-products - e.g. on the shelf so that there is no separate stand for organic products, just so that we as consumers can find these organic products among other products so that we do not have to look for them - and how to broaden our awareness as consumers so that we choose organic products instead of other products. It is also important what I have heard and what is not in this law, although the Law and Justice representative claims that it is written in this law, for example. when it comes to public procurement law, make eco products more widely used in schools, kindergartens, local authorities or public institutions, so as to expand the Polish market in this way. The state introduces in this law many difficulties for the Polish farmer, you confuse the concepts of control and supervision, you introduce further sharpenings in the form of exams, fees. So there are absolutely no facilitations in this bill. I also have the impression that you are not listening to what the social side, the professionals, all those who have been working in the field of organic production for some time. Working on this law, these four years that you have wasted in fact, show how in the mirror (The Bell) the Law and Justice ratio to the Polish farmer and Polish agriculture. As a club of the Left in a technical manner, we will support this law. But only in a technical way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u46	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that we have dealt with organic farming, it is a pity that only because of the implementation of European Union rules and the need to introduce solutions contained there, because the development of organic production in Poland is poor, it is not visible on the shelves, nor among satisfied farmers producing such a product, nor in the form of a rapidly increasing area of organic farming. So this debate, this discussion that is today, this discussion that was at committee meetings, has exposed the current system. Unfortunately, the bill that we are working on today, which we are discussing today, will not change much in this matter. I even have the right to assume that at some points it will not only cause the development of organic production in Poland, it will reduce the development of this production, because one of the things farmers pay attention to, which discourages them from doing this type of activity, is excessive bureaucracy, difficulties in obtaining a certificate, multiple papers and documentation, which is needed to have a certified product. In this respect, amendments were tabled by the social side, organic farmers, certification bodies. Unfortunately, none of these amendments received a majority at the committee meeting. That's bad. This means that this law will actually change little in a positive way in Polish organic farming. So let's take a look at the market consequences for farmers. We observe in many Western European countries, especially in non-European countries, for example. on the US market, a very high dynamic in terms of demand for organic production. We see in many countries that sales of these products increase by 10% year by year , and even more. This means that today there is plenty of market space for organic products. This is also a discussion about how Polish agriculture and organic farming will look like and conventional in the coming years, whether sometimes someone from the market demand from consumers will not satisfy their products and it will not be Polish farmers - because we do not make it easier for them. Let's look at it on the basis of the Polish market. Let's go to an average large-scale store or a network store and look at what organic products are and what countries they come from. In a large part, perhaps even most, these are products imported from other countries, which have created better conditions for their farmers to produce this type of production, and in fact they earn money on access to the Polish market, farmers there earn, we do not occupy this place, and Polish consumers are doomed to buy an imported product. We also discuss many times why this market in Poland has developed so poorly. I have not observed any public, public, campaigning to promote organic products among consumers. And they expect this kind of action. They, I am talking about consumers, want to see clearly, not only through product labelling, that the product does not contain residues of plant protection products, exceedances in the field of fertilisers, such a product wants to buy and for such a product they want to pay even more for. Such campaigns run supermarket networks, and they are really pioneers today in implementing organic products on the market, not the state, government, ministry or other organisations. I am also saying this in the context of a very turbulent discussion about the European Green Deal, which today may be somewhat limited due to the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and the turmoil in the market, but this crisis will pass, one day life will return to normality and these trends that the European Green Deal has set will certainly be implemented, and they say directly that there must be more organic food on the market. It will certainly be found, only the question whether it will come from Polish farms, whether it will be made by Polish farmers, Polish producers. For these reasons, we are assessing this law negatively. She's incomplete, she doesn't say anything about promotion, she doesn't say anything about wider support. Perhaps such actions are contained in other laws, but there are no such acts, and it would be good for this law, which has in its title: on organic farming, to solve the problems of organic producers comprehensively. At the committee meeting yesterday, we also discussed equal opportunities. What a levelling of opportunities is therefore that we restrict access to biological plant protection products, to biological fertilisers that are legally used in other countries in organic production, in non-EU countries, for example. in the UK, Switzerland, the United States, and which cannot be used and will not be used in Poland because they will not have such certification? So in a moment we will put Polish farmers in a difficult situation, uncompetitive in relation to the situation of producers in those countries. So it's a puriazum. I don't understand why this amendment hasn't been supported because it's actually gonna make our lives harder. I also regret that none of the demands of the social side has been taken into account. Unfortunately, many times in the argument (the bell) it was possible to get the impression that it was not taken into account, because no, because we did not report it. Nevertheless, this discussion is worthwhile. Tomorrow there will be a committee meeting which will examine the amendments tabled at second reading, and on the basis of this discussion, the support of these amendments will actually depend on how our club behaves in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u48	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth asking ourselves here at the beginning what should be a priority for Poland. Today's debate on this project should probably be heard by every Polish farmer, because, as you can see on the palm of your hand, for whom the interests of farmers, the interest of Poland is important, and who is able to devote very much, as not everything, to comply with these EU rules, the EU implementations which are, let's say, ideologicalized. Ladies and gentlemen! This implementation shows that the Union will beat Polish agriculture with small steps. And that's the fact. Some Polish politicians help her in this, and some Members, especially this part of the room on the left, even demand more radical changes in this and many other projects. In this bill, of course. We have a number of facilitations: harmonisation of proposals, greater possibilities for purchasing fertilisers or protection of smaller operators. These are, of course, objectively positives, but in the case of this project, which is supposed in theory to encourage Polish farmers to shift their production to the so-called ones. organic production, we know that in practice it will divide Polish farmers into better and worse. That's something to be said. Polish farms are not adapted to the models that the European Union requires of us today, and the implementation of this project and once again the shift of the burden of combating climate change, because this too is going to be a major part of it, causing huge losses and it will have consequences at prices, and this could have further consequences in the form of downloading cheaper food from abroad. It is also worth recalling the importance of such a country as Poland. Unfortunately or maybe steths, but in the fight against climate change we have little importance as a country, but we have a key role in how the food market in the world can evolve, because in the context of the war in Ukraine, where its production is at risk, and after all they were responsible for huge quantities of world production, Poland has the opportunity to fill these markets here. And this is what we should focus on, on this efficiency of Polish farmers. I feel that the European Union and a part of this House simply do not see this problem and want to go against it so that this less productive agriculture simply denies it more productively. Today 3.5% farms are organic farms, 3.5% crop area, and we assume it will be 7% and the Union would like more than 20%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is something that is impossible and will go across Polish interests. No more ideological politics for Frans Timmermans! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u50	Thank you, sir. High Izbo! I would like to warmly welcome Mr Florin-Vasile Cî?u, President of the Romanian Senate, who is currently arriving with an official visit to Warsaw (Applause), listening to our deliberations. Very, very welcome, Mr President. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think we should start this conversation, our debate from the report of our discussions with farmers who are trying to carry out organic activities in Poland, organic production. They will tell you that they do not feel any support, feel neither support on their side of production, nor support on their side of protecting genuine organic production in the context of this huge mass of ecstasy, which also operates on our market, do not see any support on the side of consumption, i.e. the buyers of this organic food. Unfortunately, this law that you have proposed does not solve any of these problems. They will tell you about the bureaucracy, the sometimes absolutely impossible conditions that are already being imposed today. Well, it turns out that this law only worsens this situation, not improves it. The idea that checks can be carried out even five years after organic production is finished is just some freak that is hard to understand. Control and supervision that you're wrong about, which you don't understand. One of my previous speakers, who spoke on behalf of the Law and Justice, said that a good policy is needed to support organic food production, that this must be combined with eco-tourism, that organic food exports must be promoted. Why don't you do it? Four years of work on the bill and we get a hull, not a bill. This is a hull (Applause), a hull that has several good points, a few bad points, a few points that improve the situation, and some that make the situation worse. Today we are facing a dramatic situation with regard to the ecological disaster, the climate disaster. This area, the area of agriculture, is extremely important and requires very big changes. I have the impression that you are introducing this directive on the basis of some mechanical translation of a point into a point, but without any commitment, without any desire that this could actually affect this activity. To conclude, because I am unfortunately running out of time, I will say this: our vote depends on the final shape of this law. Many good amendments have been tabled. If adopted, we will consider the support of this law, but in the form in which it was presented, it is hulled, it is insufficient and absolutely not responding to the challenges facing agriculture today. All I can add is that even in the EU you can't drop anything right now because you have your commissioner there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u52	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u53	God bless the Polish farmers. I have a question: Do you want Poland to be an importer of food, or do you want it to be an exporter of food? In this crowd, including the whirlwind of the implementation of Eurocircle standards, certifications and various obstacles and limitations that make every normal person laugh through tears of despair, are you even considering getting out of this madness? Is there not a window of opportunity to express at least some of those commitments that have long gone beyond the scale, the measure of grotesque? At the moment in the Republic of Poland each pig must have a Eurokolchoz passport. That wasn't even for the Nazi occupation. Even though they were smashing up a pig, that wasn't the case. You are not laughing at it, but you are imposing these solutions on the Polish farmer with full seriousness (the bell).
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u54	Thank you, sir. Time's up. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u55	Minister! I wanted to express my great disappointment that after all these years of working on such an important issue as organic farming, you have produced properly, you can say, a bubble that does not really have the potential to increase and improve organic farming in Poland and, on the other hand, to make people more, to a greater extent and with better availability, to benefit from green products. There are a lot of bureaucratic rules in this law, which, in fact, instead of supporting farmers, will only burden them even more with additional tasks. That is why the main question is: Why did you not take this opportunity to prepare a good law that will actually improve the situation in Poland and not simply impose, so to speak, additional difficulties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u56	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about a government draft law on organic farming and organic production. Once again, you have needed 4 years to try to introduce EU legislation into national legislation. I have this question: Is this because of the reluctance to join the European Union, or is it because of the unwillingness of farmers, or because of the desire to test farmers within the framework of the new rules introduced after such a long period of time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u58	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that organic production is more expensive, and we know that because of productivity it cannot replace common food production methods. In a word, Polish workers, teachers, nurses, and together with them about 90% Poles, are doomed to eat colorants, antibiotics, which are marrowized by meat, and those earning above the national average will be able to eat healthier. My constituents asked me to ask from this place why the great majority of Poles, who cannot afford to buy organic food, should keep the entire control, certification and supervision apparatus from their taxes, so that elite producers maintain the level of elite production. How does the Minister intend to explain to most Poles that they must pay from their taxes to elite sowings or elite breeding only so that elites can eat healthier and tastier? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll ask you kindly to answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u61	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the opposition tabled a number of amendments, which unfortunately were rejected. Two amendments concerned, among others, abuse of indeterminate concepts. In art, for example. 3 We have proposed to replace the words with a comprehensive list with an up-to-date list, which is fully justified. However, the list should be a closed set. There is no obstacle that the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products, in carrying out the tasks assigned to him, does not update it as required. The situation is similar in Article. 4. Corrective measures do not have to be appropriate, because they are by definition, and so are understood in Polish law. Once again, the designer introduces undefined concepts. The corrective action does not concern the activities of certification bodies but the regularity of their tasks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, perhaps it would be worth looking again at the amendments that were tabled by the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u62	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Healthy food is a healthy society and a healthy society is a healthy economy and a healthy economy is a happy society. [[Bravo!]] Ecology isn't cheap, it's true, but it's essential. Thanks to organic food, healthy food we are healthier. Good quality of life is a guarantee of healthy food use. There is also a decrease in the budget for treatment, which can be spent e.g. for prevention. The bill is extensive, there are a lot of amendments to it and inaccuracies. It should be rejected. The Civic Coalition asked for a subcommittee, unfortunately the motion has fallen. Buying organic food is not an obligation, but is recommended. The law should regulate all organic farming rules precisely so that organic food (the bell) is truly healthy. Question: "What are you doing, the government, to raise the level of knowledge about the impact of ecology, specifically healthy nutrition on our lives, and how much budget is earmarked for this?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u64	Thank you, Member. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This bill raises a lot of controversy among farmers. I was here, in the Seym, in the column room, at a meeting of representatives of agricultural chambers, trade unions with the Prime Minister. At that time I heard many concerns about the implementation of this law. This is also confirmed by the position adopted by the General Assembly of the Wielkopolska Agricultural Chamber. Farmers say that in the context of the war in Ukraine today the most important issue is, among others, the issue. consider the possibility of introducing mechanisms to limit the export of cereals from Europe and the creation of instruments to ensure adequate stocks of cereals for consumption and feed in European countries. They also call for consideration to be given to changing or translating the dialogue with the European Commission (the bell), the approach to the new common agricultural policy and not just climate and environmental objectives. I would therefore ask you to respond to these requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u66	Thank you, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Looking at this law, it is difficult not to say that the Government of Law and Justice is the most ungreen and ungreen government after 1989. The project is to adapt Polish legislation to the EU 2018 regulation. They should have been in force since January this year. However, the rules we are debating are sloppyly prepared, still not implemented and very limited in their scope. You had four years to prepare a comprehensive vision of organic farming, but you wasted that opportunity. These decisions, ambitious goals, courageous decisions which the Law and Justice Government does not take will be taken by another Polish, ecological, green government. But today I ask you. The area of organic production in Poland today is only 3.4% the area of the crop area. The EU's strategic target for 2025 is as much as 25%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the plan, what is the vision of reaching this EU goal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u68	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is implementing EU legislation into Polish law, but looking more closely at organic farming, there is no systematic support in our country for the development of this sector and the achievement of the objectives of the EU's implemented strategy. Why did the original project lack the obligation to collect data on sales of organic products by the Central Statistical Office? Such a solution would give a clear picture of the development of demand and supply for such products. Another issue is potential markets. What does the government intend to do to ensure that Polish organic products are streamed to our consumers? I would also ask you to answer the question of how the increase in interest rates (the Bell) that we are currently dealing with affects the debt costs of organic food farms and whether, therefore, State aid is planned for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u70	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Organic farming is an eternal question, because demand must simply meet supply. Organic farmers are mainly talking about problems with the processing of organic farming. 'Cause what if they make it if they don't have a place to process it or they have to drive 200 or more kilometers? Organic farmers are talking about legislative barriers. But, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, the most important thing is whether the consumer can afford to buy it. Today, the biggest opponent of organic farming is crazy inflation. If we saw this historical price of cherries - 260 PLN, how much would they have to cost ecologically? Who's gonna buy that, ladies and gentlemen? Today, organic farming will be collapsing in this way because no one will be interested in it, no one will be able to afford it. Only appropriate support, which will allow the possibility to maintain a small difference between the price of organic and conventional agricultural products, will give a chance (the Bell) to develop. Otherwise, it will be only subsidies, not any production, no success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we want Poles to be healthier if we want to spend less on the treatment of civilization diseases, we need to introduce a law that is friendly to organic farming free of GMOs, free from helping crops harmful to health with preparations. The question is why Polish law is not friendly to organic producers and processors. Why, as my previous speaker mentioned, is there an obligation in the European Union only for organic producers in Poland to pass an examination for an inspector of organic farming? We are aware that this is one of the many barriers to the development of organic farming. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u75	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about organic farming, which already exists in Poland today, because I think you know that in Beskidy, Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyn, Podbeskidzie farmers produce healthy, ecological food in difficult carpathian climates, struggling not only with the challenges of this harsh nature, but also with current challenges. Of course, this law will not solve the problems that farmers today have to deal with, for example, increasing production costs, rising prices of various types of materials, fertilisers, fuels, etc. The government has no answer for this, and it's shocking. I have two questions. First: When will you finally create a cushion for farmers so that they can produce inflation during this difficult period of galloping inflation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question: What solutions do you have for farmers farming under difficult mountain conditions? Because they really need backup. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It gives me the creeps when I hear how much chemistry is in Polish food. This is, of course, a huge problem, but every country is aiming to feed its nation and, of course, it is a proportion to today's topic, what we are talking about, or organic food. We're saying 3.5%. Polish agriculture is organic farming, elsewhere - that about 20%. I would like to know the proportion of Poland and the countries of the European Union in these matters. I'm asking you to answer that question. And second question: To what limit could organic food be produced in Poland, where would self-sufficiency be in terms of feeding Poles? Because that's an answer to that. One bill won't solve this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The main element is the price and ability to purchase raw materials, this food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you three questions. Namely, why is the Ministry so reluctant to benefit from the achievements and social experience of organic farming or organic production? In recent committee meetings we had examples that there was no cooperation, that is our assessment, between the Ministry and the social side, although the social side proposed a lot of important, interesting decisions resulting from experience. They could have been part of this project, unfortunately they didn't. Secondly, I would like to ask: Is the Ministry absolutely convinced that the proposed legislation will increase the number of farms that will be engaged in organic production and will the area of organic farming be increased? Will these regulations bring us closer to the standards we assume? Finally, briefly: How does the Ministry imagine to organise information campaigns on organic products on the basis of this harmful bill that we will soon adopt? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u80	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Organic farming can and should be a strong part of our economy. The demand for healthy, ecological products is growing and will grow every year. You need two pieces, only two and as many as two. Firstly, very simple rules that will be understandable, long-term. Unfortunately, this scope of legislation is not at its best, and we therefore encourage you to support our amendments, and this will certainly be extremely beneficial. And the second element, i.e. support for organic farms - both substantive and financial. It is really worth investing in this area, in organic farming. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u83	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a draft law on organic farming and organic production. Thank you very much, Minister, for preparing this project, which is extremely important because it is a comprehensive systematisation of the organic production process. The organic production department is an opportunity for many farms. Poland has a great potential to be a leader in the production of eco-food. The importance of eco-food has already been noticed by our ancestors. Already in ancient times, Hippocrates said, "Let food be your medicine, and let it be food." This type of agricultural production should therefore be disseminated and, of course, appropriate conditions for agriculture should be created. The aim is to promote this type of agriculture and to ensure that agricultural production is carried out as far as possible. On the other hand, we also need (the bell) to promote eco-products, eco-products. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, does the Ministry of Agriculture, possibly in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, foresee any promotional actions that will promote healthy food that guarantees the health of Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u84	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u85	I'd like an extra 20 seconds, like the predecessor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u86	Oh, Member, this is a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u87	Now, let's get to the point. Minister! Today - the criticism of farmers in relation to the issue of organic farming. ASF - failed, government failure. Expensive fertilizers - government failure. Expensive fuel - the failure of the government and the satisfaction of Orlen with the highest profit. You've wasted four years. You're not talking about support here. You can afford to spend 200 million on all kinds of advertising, you can afford to pay 160 million euros for the rule of law, and you can't afford to just help a farmer. Farmers have a great product, and you don't work with them. And the reality we see: on the shelves foreign products, imported, imported, and Polish farmers do not have support from the state. It's very amazing. A government that doesn't care about farmers hasn't been around in years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, we have different crises and the state, as representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, should consider this a priority task. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u88	Thank you, Member. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that every member of the Civic Coalition has been out of time, and that has not bothered you, and that you have been bothered by a slight passing of time by a Member of the Law and Justice. [[Because you always cut me short.]] But it's a little embarrassing, my fellow Member. Please also pay attention to the members of your club. [[I must always be instructed by you by the marshal.]] Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. A little more kindness, Member, for the world, for the people. [[You like me.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u89	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why, even in such a friendly subject as organic farming, you are against the welfare of the planet, the social moods and even the farmers themselves. After all, consumer awareness is growing and we want to choose biofood more and more. We want these vegetables or fruits to be from Polish, local, organic crops. We don't want to eat anything anymore. At present, the level of green farming is only 3.5%. By 2025, we were supposed to reach 25%, but this law will not help to achieve this level, which will make it even more difficult. We are the only ones in the Union who hold an examination for an inspector of organic farming. We introduce the possibility of crop control even 5 years after the closure of production. Looks like everyone can be poisoned, but in order for it to be eco, it's gonna take a lot of work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u90	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In front of us, organic farming is dying. Their place is occupied by piers, industrial farms, which have no scruples, and their only goal is profit at the expense of the local community and landscape. It's an uneven fight because there's huge capital on the side of big farms and a whole army of lobbyists. I talk regularly to farmers and farmers from Wielkopolska, I see them fighting, but many of them surrender. On the one hand, this law contains several good solutions, but on the other hand, it gives the biggest advantage to farms above 50 ha. Let us remember that the average size of the farm in Poland is 11 ha, i.e. almost five times less. This is the kind of farm we should be supporting first and foremost. Therefore, Minister, I have a question: Why does the government support large agriculture and disregard Polish farmers? What are you going to do for family farms? I'm asking for a specific answer. These people need help here and now. Let us finally begin to appreciate true (the bell) and organic farming, because it deserves it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This government has done more for Polish farmers during this term than liberal-left governments for 20 years. [[30.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the opposition! You're talking about Poles buying foreign food of poor origin. Why? That's because politics, among other things. Civic Platforms, Balcerowicz's actions, Mr Lewandowski's actions, Tusk led to the liquidation of the Polish distribution network and foreign brands. But with the creation of a food holding company, we will reverse this process. [[We'll see about that.]] Minister! How will this law increase organic food production, and how will it also affect the market situation and prices of organic fertilisers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a waste of the opportunity to push Polish organic farming on wider lines and give Polish farmers financial and legislative tools so that they can effectively meet the growing demand for Polish organic agricultural products in Poland. It is not true that organic farming is more expensive. In a narrow aspect, yes, but given the health, environmental, climatic problems generated by non-organic agriculture, conventional agriculture, and the costs of combating them, the cost of treating diseases caused by conventional agriculture, organic farming is more cost-effective, also because organic farming has a higher nutritional density (Dawn), less water, therefore it is easier to satisfy hunger for organic farming. There is 7 times less pollution in organic production.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u97	So in the case of organic farming, we're talking about a 7-fold higher level of health safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u98	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u99	This is a very broad topic that I will not mention in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u100	Madame, I do not want to turn off the microphone, but you have gone too far.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u101	The opportunity for this law to be a step forward when it comes to organic farming was wasted after 4 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u102	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Environmental issues take on and will take on meaning, this is a direction we can no longer escape. Ecology, including organic food, is a challenge not only for agriculture, but also for the state, for the government, because ecology costs. In this connection, I have a question: What are the facilities and real support that farmers can count on today and after the changes made to this law or the agricultural producer who will want to change their business profile? In my view, the draft law is unfortunately very conservative, bureaucratic and does not meet the expectations of agricultural communities. We seem to have wasted our last few years. That's too bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u104	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Organic farms are very needed and surely production will be cheaper here if there is more demand if there is a larger range, because then the whole context, fertilizers and everything... The number will simply increase and the increase will always reduce costs. I would like to deal mainly with the consumer issue. For 3.5% farms are organic and the network of organic shops is huge. The consumer has doubts and there is no evidence that the food he buys, the more expensive food, which is natural, is certainly ecological. What are the guarantees here? On the food product on the label at the moment is written, what is the percentage of vitamins, fats, etc. How can we be sure that the consumer buying it is organic food? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Conclusion and question. Is it not necessary that the organic food store has full information from which organic farm... Is it not necessary for this farm to have a certificate to ensure that the consumer is actually buying healthy food? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u106	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We call for a change in the overall approach to Polish organic farming, which has great, still untapped potential. This is not about a technical approach, it is about a strategic approach. It's not that, as it is today, 3.5% farms in Poland were organic farms. The assumption is that there's going to be 25% of them. And here's the half-center, which is 7%. It's not enough. Or we change the overall thinking and approach, starting with training, financing, the presentation of the common agricultural policy, and achieving the goal, such as in the dreams achieved by Austria, where in fact 25% organic farms feed the entire economy, create a brand, whole farms. We need to change the thinking process. We cannot agree to such simple procedures, such as: They give exams to inspectors. There will be no one to actually certify in Poland. This needs to be simplified and, on the other hand, to present a holistic thinking if we want Polish agriculture to be a brand (The Bell) of organic farming. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u108	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Rafał Romanowski to answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I am very pleased that the left-hand side of the Polish Sejm is doing such a far-reaching equilibrary on the implementation of European Union legislation. I really congratulate you. You're doing very well. The first sentence of the explanatory memorandum to this law makes it clear that the need for a proposed law is due to the need to introduce into the Polish legal order the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 (OJ L 108, 29.5.2018, p. Urz. EU L 150 of 14.06.2018, p. One, late. zm.). You really found a reason for such a solid discussion about the implementation of EU law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed Act on organic farming and organic production is expected not only by tens of thousands of farmers and processors, but also by all consumers who, when choosing organic products, want to ensure that they receive food produced in accordance with the principles of organic production of the European Union. 75% consumers in our country recognise what an organic product is. 75% consumers know what a green leaf is on an organic product and is well aware of what product it takes off the store shelf, whether it is produced in an ecological and healthy way. So here's the charge that first of all, why is there such bad national legislation... Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing EU law. [[It's not like there's an inspector exam in any other country.]] Your amendments dealt with certain things. You have deleted in your amendments the specific provisions that this regulation provides for, which we are implementing. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Yeah, that's true. The specific provisions that came out there, you wanted to implement in the form of an amendment. I've never seen a more psychic situation in this case. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: China.]] Respectful of the environment, animal welfare, without the use of unacceptable plant protection products and fertilisers, dear country. Let us really read with understanding, the writing is very clear. As far as fertilisers and inputs are concerned, it is the place of admission, i.e. the European Union, that is to say, that does not count. It doesn't matter to me whether the fertiliser will be produced in India, Norway, Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen, represent the interests of organic farmers who are directly engaged in organic food production, not only in the interests of certification bodies. [[They were on the committee against this project.]] This is the implementation of regulations that give a clear task to the Chief Inspector of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles... [[That's the opinion of the farmers.]] ...but the remainder are carried out by certification bodies, commercial law units, business entities. Farmers, if they pay for certificates, have a refund for this. Ladies and gentlemen, let's call things by name. We implement EU law and implement the Rural Development Programme. Support for organic farms with an area of up to 1 ha has increased by more than 27%. The highest rate is almost 2600, and in the next budgetary perspective the rates will be even higher. We are talking about the fact that organic farming is expensive, that products do not reach the tables of Polish consumers. That is why these European Union rules are being implemented, so that this is support under the Rural Development Programme, so that such situations do not take place. [[It's gonna stop development, you know that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us really respect what has been done. Once again, you've been working on this bill for four years. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Dear Member States, the European Union's delegated rules for implementation, Mr, this regulation, are not yet issued by the European Commission. So far we are waiting for almost half of the delegated provisions for the implementation of this regulation. So let us really respect the work that has been done, not just represent the interests of private entities. Because it's a psychic. when we are implementing EU law and you are doing great things here and dancing about how not to implement it into national legislation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] [[Scandal.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a competence law, ensuring an effective system of control and supervision and certification of organic production. The Act contains solutions important for organic farmers... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u110	Member, do you listen to the answer or to yourself? State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: ...this ensures that this environmentally friendly organic production is controlled and certified by competent certification bodies. Competent certification bodies. You asked me why this exam was going on. [[Where else is this exam? In China and Poland it is.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I took my driving test, I also took the theoretical part in addition to the practical part. Let's not argue what the term "test" means. There's an exam in Germany, too, except it's a practical exam. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, do you want to listen to yourself or to the Minister? [[But the Minister is lying.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Ladies and gentlemen, let's call things by name. The Act guarantees constant raising and improving the knowledge of certification bodies... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...the quality of their control is monitored on an ongoing basis by public authorities using the tools provided for by European Union law. [[In Poland, like China.]] Fair competition, equal rules, full transparency of production and certification requirements are the basis for trust in the organic farming system that gives them safety. The Act provides for the verification by the authorities of the State of competence of organic farmers inspectors, as is the case also in other Member States of the European Union. [[But it's not mandatory.]] Mrs... State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Inspectors in respect of which it will be proven by public authorities that they are not reliable or biased in carrying out official controls will be removed from the control group. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We must be reliable in the implementation of these provisions of the European Union... [[This is not in the European Union's rules on exams.]] ...and we cannot lead to such extremes that this advice will be really inappropriate. [[We will be further than the European Union.]] The amendment proposed by the Civic Coalition would prevent the Polish State from ensuring fair, transparent and impartial verification of the powers of inspectors. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Your Marshal, there is a polite request to the Member, indeed. [[Then why aren't there others?]] I've paid attention so many times, Minister. This could already be asked out by the Member. [[Voice from the room: It won't do any good.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: The State authorities, through binding guidelines and instructions for certification bodies, will have the effective tools provided for by European Union law to ensure that producers are controlled on a level playing field and in accordance with applicable law. The Civic Coalition amendment would prevent effective supervision of the work of certification bodies entrusted by the Polish State with an important role in guaranteeing food quality. There are many different schemes in the European Union, in Poland the state institution plus certification bodies, which are units of commercial law, carry out normal economic activities. Someone's got to keep an eye on it, hence the rules. Organic farmers, whose efforts are linked to labour intensive and demanding organic production, deserve specific support from the State. Thanks to the solutions contained in this Act, they will still be able to receive advance payments under the common agricultural policy, they will not have to wait for financial support for their contribution to environmental protection, as would have been the case for the next amendment tabled by the Civic Coalition, which wanted to report until 30 November, while advance payments of 85% start in the middle of this month. [[No, the Minister is twisting.]] Let us really respect the hard work of farmers who want to have funds that also absorb European Union funds. It would be nice to respect that. The Act introduces financial support for organic farmers for the use of organic seed. This will increase the yield and increase the availability of organic food desired by Polish consumers. In addition, the Act introduces a solution to increase the availability of fertilisers not only for organic farmers, but also for all Polish farmers. Organic farmers will be able to use fertilisers authorised in organic production in other countries of the European Union without having to go through a difficult administrative procedure. The number of fertilisers available to all farmers will also increase. The Civic Coalition wanted to reduce the availability of fertilisers and prevent Polish farmers from using fertilisers allowed by farmers... [[No, we were just trying to expand.]] Mrs... State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: ...in other countries of the European Union, acting against them. [[Absolutely not.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law should enter into force as soon as possible, as it will enable a number of other solutions which are not available to Polish organic farmers without it. These are, for example, systems for the assessment of plant varieties for organic production, systems for the assessment and control of the quality of organic heterogeneous plant material, the possibility of publishing information on organic products offered by these farmers free of charge. Without the solutions contained in this law, which are beneficial for farmers, producers and consumers, Poland will find it difficult to maintain the development of organic production. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The example of Austria, an outstanding example for organic farming, is still given. It's over 25%. That's great. Ladies and gentlemen, 7% This model, which we want to achieve, is over 1 million hectares of agricultural land in our country. You have repeatedly raised the issue of food security and how harmful the rule of law and justice is. If we want to be a food safe country, we want to produce food ecologically and in a conventional way... [[Then change that bill.]] We don't have to look for that food. What Mr Braun has raised: Should we be an exporter, or should we be an importer of food? We're an exporter. If we maintain this level of food production, we will still be an exporter. This is what not only Polish consumers but also European consumers expect from us, in many cases consumers from outside our country's borders, even because of the armed conflict in Ukraine. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish law is not friendly to organic farmers. Why this exam, I said, once again I will not repeat. But we are only implementing EU law. [[This is not in any other European Union country.]] Let us really respect what we should implement, and let us not interfere with farmers' investigation into this model of organic farming. [[It's recording, Minister.]] As I said, the rates for agriculture to 1 ha have increased considerably, and this has increased after 2016. This is a very important communication. In the next budgetary perspective, these rates will continue to increase, in favour of farmers, so that organic products are available on shelves. not only for the wealthiest consumers living above the middle class. Promotional actions. The Polish Ministry of Agriculture spends 2.5 million, 3.5 million on sustainable programmes, short- and long-term, including multiannual programmes on organic farming. We've released the so-called. the catalogue of green public procurement, which was raised in the committee and here again was mentioned. Each office, the local government received such a catalogue about how, where to look for such products. The point is that you can buy these products and you can use this healthy food. Mr Sterczewski referred to an example of medium-sized farms in Poland - 11 ha. The average organic farm in Poland exceeds 27 ha. It should sound so clear that you feel the difference. Certification bodies. What some of you have not even been able to properly understand the concept, understand what these individuals are doing, and mistakenly refer to the concept of certification bodies. National strategic plan, support for mountain farming. It's all there, ladies and gentlemen, provided. Mr Dyduch raised the question of what would happen if we reached this EU level of organic food production, for example. 25%. Mr President, then it may turn out that we will no longer be a self-sufficient country, we will no longer be an exporter and we will have to be an importer. We must somehow translate this model into Polish conditions. In Austria, this is 25%, of which, ladies and gentlemen, more than 80% are permanent grassland on which sheep are raised and there is no other organic production. So let's also adjust the measure to our national conditions. Of course, the mountain farming support model is provided for, of course, this model will also be provided for in the national strategic plan, but let us really respect what is done and what will be done. A parliamentary group was formed on the the development of organic farming. This is the right direction. [[Today. And you didn't want a subcommittee.]] The idea is to work on mechanisms under the common agricultural policy to look for further support under the National Housing Plan, to look for support under the Polish Government and under national measures - for those farmers who intend to use it and produce it ecologically. Ladies and gentlemen! The number of hectares of production in organic farming has fallen, but the amount of food produced in organic farms has increased. And the most important thing is that in 2021, for the first time in four years, the number of hectares in organic farming has started to rise again. Thanks to this support, which is implemented within the framework of inter alia. the common agricultural policy, but also national measures, I assure you countries, this development of organic farming will increase, this will continue to be implemented and this will become increasingly interesting. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, if you care so much about the number of farms in our country, remember this... Maybe we should give these farmers a chance, make them produce. It's about quality, not quantity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to adopt the proposed legislation on organic farming as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws (prints Nos 2181 and 2210). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on a government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. The project is included in print No 2181. The committee's report is contained in print No 2210. High Izbo! The proposal transposes into the Polish legal order two European Union Directives: Commission Delegated Directive 2021/1226 of 21 December 2020 amending for the purposes of adapting to scientific and technical progress Annex II to Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards common noise assessment methods and Commission Directive 2020/367 of 4 March 2020 amending Annex III to the abovementioned Directive of 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the determination of methods for the assessment of environmental noise harmful effects. High Izbo! None of the Member States of the European Union has yet transposed both Directives, i.e. Directive 2021/1226 and Directive 367/2020. I can say that we are in the European vanguard in this matter. Directive 2020/367 imposes new obligations, while Directive 2021/1226 updates the noise assessment provisions and requires operators drawing up strategic noise maps to apply updated noise assessment methods taking into account the latest knowledge in this field. The new solutions introduced by Directive 2020/367 will require competent environmental authorities and bodies to draw up strategic noise maps to apply a uniform way of assessing the harmful effects of road, rail and air noise and to take corrective action to minimise these effects. In addition to the implementation of the two directives mentioned by me, the proposal amends national law, inter alia. amendments to the Act - Environmental law. Let me remind you that in the article. 237 Act - Environmental law is the obligation to draw up and submit an ecological review by road managers to the Marshal of the voivodship. Currently, the Marshal of the voivodship may impose this obligation on the managers of motorways and express roads in cities on the rights of the county. This is a limited scope. On the basis of such a review, an analysis of the environmental impact of the road shall be carried out and corrective action may be taken to reduce the negative action of the road. The present provisions of the project contained in print No 2181 extend the jurisdiction of the Marshal of the voivodship in this respect to other roads, which has an obvious effect. It's about protecting ourselves from road-related nuisance. Secondly, in the article. 73a Environmental law is a mandatory mandate for the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs to regulate by means of a regulation issued in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for Construction, Spatial Planning and Housing, how to establish a safe distance at the location of new plants presenting a risk of major industrial accident and, secondly, new investments in the vicinity of such plants where major accidents may occur. This Regulation is also to specify the types of such accidents, impact limits and similar volumes. In any EU country, the issues I am talking about have not been fully addressed. It's about being mentioned in the article. 73a Environmental law The authorisation has become optional. It was nowhere to be said in such a categoric way. Thirdly, the draft law also amends the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. Those amendments shall bring the provisions into order after the amendment introduced by the Act of 30 August 2019. It's about the numbering of the rules and other order, as you might say, legislative interference. They also delete unnecessary provisions concerning no longer established databases of environmental information, no longer functioning registers of hazardous substances and no longer functioning derogations in relation to acceptable levels of substances in the air. We update the provisions of the Act in accordance with current requirements. Fourthly, in the Act of 15 July 2011 on the National Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 there is a list of enforcement authorities whose opinion is to be taken into account in the EMAS registration procedure. Amendment to Article 3 of the project is supplemented by this list about the President of the National Water Farm of Poland, which conducts a number of procedures in the field of water law implementation, so it has reliable data on the impact of the applicant organisations on the aquatic environment. Let me remind you that the national eco-management and audit scheme for EMAS is simply a voluntary register to which companies who want to have a good opinion on how they respect the environment can sign up. Of course, if they meet the conditions. For this entry to be actually supported by reliable findings, the list of authorities that decide to complete this alert must be complete. We supplement it, as I say, with the President of the National Water Farm of Poland. This is, in short, the whole of the substantive changes that the project is making. Art. 4, 5 and 6 of the project contain transitional provisions and in accordance with Article. 7 The Act shall enter into force 14 days after its publication. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly ask you to adopt a draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws contained in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in print No 2210. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u112	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Our discussions are attended by young people from Trzebnica from the Primary School. Leopold Okulicki, the Bear. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws, print No 2181. This is a project aimed at implementing European Union law, which concerns the transposition of Directives 2021/1226 and 2020/367 of the European Union Commission, and amendments to environmental legislation against noise as regards common noise assessment methods and the establishment of methods for assessing environmental noise pollution. The Act amending the Act - Environmental Law aims to amend environmental regulations against noise in the form of more detailed rules on the characteristics of environmental authorities, namely the characteristics of the Marshal of the voivodship, a formal amendment to the regulations on the provision of environmental information and its protection and public participation in environmental protection, environmental impact assessments relating to strategic noise maps and environmental programmes against noise. In addition, the Act aims to give optional character to an implementing act by the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for Construction, Planning and Land Planning and Housing on: how to set a safe distance in the case of the location of new plants presenting a serious industrial accident and new investments in the vicinity of plants presenting a risk of major industrial accidents, types of major industrial accidents and parameters of the impact of potential damage, consequences of major industrial accidents. In addition: repeal of the provision concerning the provision of information on emissions and abstraction of water collected in the voivodship database on the use of the environment, repeal of the provision on the obligation to include in the Public Information Bulletin a decision on deferral and exclusion from the application of certain levels of permitted substances into the air, as well as the addition of a point which extends the list of law enforcement authorities, to the President of the State Water Farm of Poland. The solutions contained in the project aim to ensure the protection of the environment and human health against noise through the common noise assessment methods for all Member States of the European Union, the revised environmental noise assessment methods used in the preparation of strategic noise maps and the common methods for the assessment of environmental noise harmful effects applied to all Member States of the European Union in the framework of the drawing up of strategic noise maps, on the basis of which the environmental protection programme against noise is subsequently drawn up, as well as the equipment of the voivodship marshal with tools that enable users of the environment to be required to draw up and submit to the marshal environmental reviews as a basis for the determination of corrective obligations. This will allow for an in-depth and appropriate effort to identify the types of major industrial accidents and the location of establishments presenting a risk of major industrial accidents in relation to housing, public utility facilities, long-term crops, national roads and railway lines. The overall changes proposed in the draft law should have a positive impact on the environment, in particular on the sound environment and therefore on human health and well-being. The objective of the project cannot be achieved by other means, and it is therefore necessary to amend this law in line with the proposal made in the proposed regulation. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice are asking for further work on the proposed solutions. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I make two amendments to the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition. I kindly ask you to present your position. [[Is there a representative of the Ministry?]] There is Minister of Decoration, sir, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u115	Dear Marshal! High Seym! We are dealing with the introduction into the Polish legal order of European law, the applicable directives which order, regulate, improve the quality of the fight against noise. In European legislation, we have been dealing with this type of activity for many years, which introduces different types of standards, harmonising different approaches at European level to the theme of comfort of life. I think that this directive is useful because it has already been among EU officials a dozen years ago, among the Members of the European Parliament there has been a growing awareness that excessive regulation is taking place, that too many different types of specific rights are being applied and introduced into legislation. Then a special study committee was set up, which should be removed from European legislation and how to shape European legislation in the future, so that it is not accused of being too detailed that it interferes too much with national legislation. Here we have an example of what is needed and necessary, because clean water and clean air are needed for living, for comfort of life. With regard to both clean water and clean air, awareness of the citizens of individual European Member States is clear and precise. Especially in Poland for several years now This is increasing in terms of fighting for clean air, financing and moving away from harmful energy substances, burning substances. And in the case of this consciousness, there was a quality leap. When it comes to noise, I think we're at the beginning of this road. That is why I am addressing the Minister in such a case, so as not to stop just implementing this directive and not be content with making it possible to analyse the fight against noise in more detail. Since these competences are shared between central and local authorities, training and conferences should simply be carried out to make local authorities, including central officials aware of the importance of activities in this area. I will give just one example in connection with this change of law, quote: As a result of this change, the content of the descriptive part and the strategic noise map is extended to assess the harmful effects to be drawn up in accordance with this Directive transposed into the Polish legal order. The purpose of this assessment is to determine the harmful effects of noise on humans, in particular the incidence of ischaemic heart disease and the occurrence of significant nuisance and significant sleep disturbances. This change is intended to inspire actions to minimise these negative impacts. In many European capitals, the issue of combating noise has taken the form of important actions of individual political parties, individual administrations in metropolitan areas, for several years. E.g. in Paris for several years now there is an office of Paris Merity, to which any citizen can report, protesting due to excessive noise in its surroundings or pointing to this noise. First, appropriate analytical action is being taken to assess the intensity of this noise. Then, possibly, changes are proposed to put an end to the matter. Few months ago, a year ago, special radars were introduced in Paris to measure noise. They're only being piloted for two years. What is the purpose of their introduction? They are to function as if they were speeding, i.e. when noise standards are exceeded, mandates will be issued. As I said, this is a pilot project that will be evaluated after 2 years. Speaking of which, I wanted to show you how important this issue is and that it should not be minimized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek on behalf of the Left Club. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Long-term exposure to burdensome noise is a big problem in Poland. The people of the big cities know that, but not only that. Those whose homes are in the vicinity of airports, highways or industrial plants know this. It is estimated that in Poland several million people are exposed to excessive long-term noise. Specialists signal a serious threat because noise is not indifferent to health. Long-term exposure to noise exposes not only people's hearing, because the effects of noise are also sleep disorders, fatigue and health problems. In Poland, the main threat is communication noise, road noise, and in connection with the development of aviation - also the one associated with it. Industrial noise is still associated with other pollutants, such as air. And we come to this point where we have to ask what protection against noise of residents and residents of Poland looks like. The protest groups say it's not enough. It's hard not to admit it. Indeed, we still have much to do. The government project on which we are testing adapts Polish legislation to the European Union directives on the establishment of updated noise assessment methods and methods for the assessment of environmental noise harmful effects, strategic noise maps. And that is good, because it is also true that noise protection should be harmonised at the level of the European Union as a whole. This amendment also gives some tools to the marshals of voivodships. It is a question of imposing an obligation on road managers other than motorways and express roads to draw up and submit an ecological review to the Marshal of the voivodship. On this basis you can e.g. call for corrective action if specific rules are not respected. While in this part directly related to the Directive this law raises no doubts, its provisions are, however, problematic. I am specifically referring to the repeal of the obligation for the Minister of Environment and Climate to prepare, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, Construction, Spatial Planning or Housing, a regulation setting a safe distance for the location of new plants which present a risk of major industrial accidents and new investments in the vicinity of which such establishments are planned. During the committee meeting and in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed change is explained by the fact that it is a very complex process linked to the need for multi-month consultations and that there are no such solutions anywhere in the European Union. But at the same time, we were assured that this kind of work was going on in the ministry. Well, if they're still going on, then why do we have to cancel it? How can we be sure that this regulation will even arise? In my opinion, if you look at how weak people, citizens and citizens of Poland are in this type of proceedings, then yes. It seems to me that the government's task should be to bring about such a regulation, not to evade this obligation and once again to throw the fight for the clean environment, health and comfort of living on the shoulders of the inhabitants. We, as the Left, are making an amendment to this very provision in the Act and are counting on it to be adopted after the discussion in the committee, and we will be able to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, I would like to say that I fully agree with those arguments which Mr Sonik put forward here, that this is not just a matter of implementation, i.e. the technical introduction of two directives into the Polish legal system, but first of all it is to draw attention to an important factor that determines the quality of the environment. The noise experienced by citizens living in urban areas near airports - that's where protests take place near airports concerning, among others, airports. limitation of start and end of flights. This also applies to industrial installations, which are also a source, and this is an important source of noise. Communication issues. The construction of screens protecting residents of buildings adjacent to newly emerging motorways or high-speed roads is one of the essential elements. We have many such examples, and there are many disputes between citizens and the road administration or local government, which also owns many roads, with regard to the introduction of important restrictions. Often restrictions cause new problems. An example is e.g. speed limitation and the introduction on technical roads of barriers which are intended on the one hand to brake passing vehicles and on the other hand to cause noise related to braking. So it is not a simple problem, and many are also stakeholders who are trying to influence it. We know that this is an important factor in human health. It is not for nothing that we all use tablets or other electronic devices, we have information about the volume of the headphones that we assume in a given week, using electronic devices, and how it possibly affects our health, which may have consequences. I think that social awareness is growing, how important environmental standards should be introduced, which reduce noise-related phenomena. I think that there is no doubt that these restrictions must be introduced. But, of course, we also often contribute to this, for example by removing sound-intensive barriers, such as. natural trees on roads or natural trees in cities. This liquidation also increases the volume. I would like to say that these two directives and their implementation are not an important problem for us. We know that the changes include not only environmental law, but also the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, in particular on strategic noise maps, to be developed in accordance with the applicable rules, and environmental protection programmes against noise, or the granting of powers to official control authorities in the field of noise emissions. The project provides for an amendment to the Act on the National Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (emas) to include the competent authorities, inter alia. President of Polish Waters. As the rapporteur has rightly said, it is a body that has a lot of information on environmental issues because of its competence. The draft law also imposes an obligation to carry out environmental reviews, extended reviews, among others. to all those bodies which are responsible for the construction and administration of roads, but not only for those which manage national roads, motorways and high-speed roads, because this also includes roads at the disposal of the local government. The project introduces details that concern individual levels of self-government, and sets out rules for strategic noise maps and prevention programmes. It also makes it optional for the Minister to issue an implementing act, in agreement with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Construction, on, inter alia, determination of safe distances for the location of industrial installations, types of major accidents and limit values for these industrial accidents. And this is actually a fundamental change that raises some kind of question as to whether it is legitimate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The efficiency of issuing these rules seems to be a departure from this general line of strengthening environmental legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u120	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the Noise Directive, but it is a good time to remind you of the burning, still unresolved problem that Poland has unfortunately become a major European waste dump in recent years, that thousands of tons of waste are imported into Poland every year from different European countries. Unfortunately, it is a powłość - the fact that we cannot block it at the borders, that the Polish state is helpless against this phenomenon - also European regulations, to which we must adapt. Let's remind you of that, because things are burning. The press releases of recent days are talking about a new dump and a new threat to drinking water shots, such as at Poznan. These are real things, real problems that local communities are suffering from. Let us remind you of hundreds of fires that took place where dishonest entrepreneurs made millions of zlotys that caused local ecological disasters. This is all, of course, a practice that has been going on for years, despite the great ecological declarations, assurances, documents, directives, bureaucracy, etc. The Confederation already in 2019 called for a ban on the import of garbage into Poland, and this request is maintained. We also maintain the demand that the Polish state finally act on this issue, not to spread its hands and not to wait for the Brussels directives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u122	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u123	My honourable fellow Member has joined the register of cases that are still not settled with the issue of the import of garbage to Poland, and I am adding the case of a non-existent, unacceptable - anti-smell law. Ladies and gentlemen! The perverted commune, the Podkarpacie, my district - the gehenna of children and adults. People asked why they wouldn't find another better place to live, if their nightmare lasts for years, they have the answer: but we live here, our family has lived here for 300 years, why should we move? It's with all of Poland anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! The Eurocircle directives clearly do not change anything here. You include in the register the rulers of the Polish Waters, but where the managers are more than six... [[You don't know what you're talking about, sir.]] ...that's where the problems will continue to await a solution. It's known that a big one could be more. The phenomenon of Poland decorated with parks along the highways has become a history of... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in relation to the draft in print no. 2181 and the report - print no. 2210. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to be brief because this bill is absolutely technical and we don't mind. This is the transposition of the two directives that must be carried out. Mrs Paluch was just talking about the fact that we are in the vanguard - we are making this change in Polish law. Great, there is only one minor problem: that's what my previous speakers said, noise is a real and real problem, so loud and unnoticeable in Poland. This is a problem related to the comfort of life, but very often it is a problem related to the health of Poles. In this bill, we give tools to fight noise to guarantee people safe and healthy living conditions. On the other hand, I do not believe that the government has any desire to use these tools to actually make changes, to which the law gives an opportunity. Examples? They could be multiplied. A huge crowd of people protest against building roads for a simple reason: because they are not provided with acoustic screens. On the other hand, where roads already arise, the screens simply do not exist, even when they should be. People complain that tests are done at night, when traffic is low, they are done when it's dry and not when it's dry. It rains and noise is much more intense. We can all observe - with this large number of investments carried out by local governments, mainly by local governments - situations where workers with these loudest devices, the loudest tools, angle grinders, etc. they work without any hearing protection and without any protection from the residents of the area. Notabene, your Marshal, when it comes to the State Labour Inspection, which works under the supervision of the Marshal of the Sejm, it seems to me that this is something that no one can see at all, no one can see, how much damage the workers are suffering from the lack of protective clothing that is necessary at this point. We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill, but it is only a tool. We hope the government will want to use this tool. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u126	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u127	The question is very specific. To whom do I ask, who is present, your marshal? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: I am.]] Thank you very much. Minister! Who is this map for? Who's gonna watch it? For whom and in what mode will it be available and how much will it cost? How much is this map going to cost, to create it, and then, I understand, some kind of surveillance, updating, correcting? What is the list of those who will use it? I have the impression that such maps, if they are really necessary, are created, for example. on the scale of cities, even on the scale of regions, they are made up of self-governments, they are created by passionate people who care about them. The Member's head is spinning. Watch your neck. Maybe you're not dealing with people like that, maybe you're just hanging out with a party bell. So, if someone really needed something like this, I think it would have happened a long time ago. What's the cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u129	This bill is needed, but the real question is whether it will be implemented to such an extent that we will not only map, but we will solve these problems. From the perspective of Silesia, from which I am a Member, noise is a huge problem due to extremely extensive communication lines, both circular and train lines. This is a huge problem and there is indeed a need for action on this issue. But I'd like to ask the Minister about a slightly different aspect. We know that communication poses the worst threat of noise, but in addition to this, there are some strange plants in different localities, companies that generate huge noise and are very often located close to (the bell) people, and they basically do not have any instruments to counter it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u131	My question is to the Minister: What tools are there so that people can fight noise effectively, not the big one, but the smaller one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u132	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the justification of the draft law, the amendments are based on the 2020 directives. We all know how important the issue of noise nuisance is and how burdensome noise is for people living on high-speed roads. Although restrictions are often recorded in local land-use plans, the inhabitants can be protected, among others. screens. Minister, are you planning to create more resources in the Ministry to protect citizens who are directly exposed to noise in smaller, larger cities, and especially those who are in the immediate vicinity of high-speed roads and motorways? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of noise in our country is a very bumpy and scrawnyly swept under the carpet by other ruling teams. As a state, we are completely helpless to the problems of ordinary citizens. Never managed to solve the problem of irresponsible dog owners who leave them in apartments for 10 hours, which ruins everyone's nerves. There was no solution to the destructive home mire of groups of drunken blockers who are in no way prosecuted by the public. In my town, the problem of noise contrasted a well-known and valued baker and hoteler with an equally well-known owner of a iconic and prized music club. Are the areas of the city that are the centre of entertainment and cultural life that attract tourists guaranteeing their budget revenues to die out after hours. 22? Should people who have decided to live there acknowledge (the bell) that the city does not fall asleep with them? I'd like to ask you, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u137	...do Polish legislators who rule feel able to repair the European Union? One last question, Marshal, please. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u138	Thank you, sir. You're out of time. I'm so sorry. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome. Let's stick to time and rules. Each of you is out of time. Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u139	Thank you very much. I only had one opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u140	Mr President, will you continue to occupy the platform?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u141	I'll be there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u142	Great. There are records in the regulations for this. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u143	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is only a legal framework, but in itself it will not reduce the noise in Poland. In order not to be dead and actually contribute to improving the quality of life of Polish residents and residents, it is necessary to participate socially in the development of these acoustic maps, as well as in the process of developing concrete solutions. These solutions can be different. These are already mentioned acoustic screens, but these may be green zones, i.e. trees, shrubs, or banning the use of leaf blowers and mechanical snowblowers in parks in cities. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How will social participation be guaranteed in the preparation of noise maps? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u144	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This law implements two directives of the European Parliament. One of them is talking about these strategic noise maps. I would like to ask you about these new methods of calculation, which are precisely the result of the implementation of the Directive. Can they delay the preparation of these strategic noise maps by those who are obliged to carry out these maps, in the context of investments related precisely to express roads, motorways, the reconstruction of railway lines or e.g. airport? In view of the above, how can these new rules, especially since the transitional provisions mention that they will come into force from 30 June (The Bell), hinder this investment process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u146	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is intended to bring Polish legislation into line with two EU directives. The deadline for implementing these directives was last year. Therefore, on 27 January the European Commission launched two new infringement procedures against Poland. In total, since the beginning of this year and only in the area of the environment, Minister, we have six new infringement procedures, of which a great majority, five, in your areas, in the areas of noise and waste. In his report to the committee, the Minister did not wish to mention a word of this. Why? Is it because the penalty counter that Solidarna Polska and PiS have drawn on Poles is beating records of all time? Minister, today it's over 1 000 100,000. zł. Your party has a very large stake in this. Do you know that? Do you have that penalty counter over your desk? Because if you don't, maybe it's time for you to install that counter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u148	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole issue of noise standards is a very complex subject and requires many changes. However, I wanted to draw attention to the question of how noise measurements are monitored. It happens that they are implemented they are so that the noise level is lower than it is actually, or simply the rules and measurements are not respected. At night. It takes a lot of time to question the results of these measurements and appeal to the detriment of the inhabitants. On the other hand, screens protect against the noise of meadows and fields instead of protecting the buildings in which people live. How does the government intend to harmonise the noise measurement process so that it does not give the possibility to change the real noise level to one that is, for example, favorable to an investor (the bell)? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u150	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u151	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we went back to the past for a moment, it would turn out that in June 2007 the then Environment Minister was asleep. Jan Szyszko issued such a regulation which reduced noise limits in Poland to values which were unprecedented in the European Union. This caused the built roads and highways to be equipped with screens, which very often protect fields, agricultural wasteland and uninhabited areas. This, of course, cost our country hundreds of millions of zlotys and this is an example of absolute mismanagement. My question is, first of all, how these rules will be implemented in order to ensure a certain cost-effectiveness in all of this and, secondly, how standards and rules of noise testing will be defined in order to protect, for example. mountain towns before such investments which significantly distort this balance (the Bell). Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u153	Minister! I have a question as to why this adaptation of the Noise Directive to national law came to a point, a change in how to establish a safe distance in the case of the location of new plants presenting a risk of a major industrial accident and new investments in the vicinity of plants presenting a risk of a major industrial accident. What does this have to do with the Noise Directive? I would add that this change, as has already been mentioned, serves only to ensure that the Minister no longer has an obligation to issue an implementing act on this matter, but that it is optional. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u154	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Pieczarka from Law and Justice. You're welcome. There is no Member. Therefore, Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. But before that, I would like to warmly welcome the young people from Częstochowa, who are listening to our deliberations at the moment, and who have come to us at the invitation of Mrs Leszczyna. Welcome. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a brief question about the screens that mute the noise on the highways. What is their contribution to the cost of building the entire highway and how is the right place set, of course there are studies where to put such screens? Because where people are, where they live, it's obvious, but it's actually sometimes in a real field. What determines the setting of such a sonic barrier? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u156	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law is needed, implementation is needed, but what will the implementation and, above all, control look like? Because new investments are different, this is simpler, but how will it be with existing ones? Many Members have talked about the dangers, the damage to the health caused by noise, especially night noise causing intermittent sleep or insomnia. Meanwhile, I would like to address - and ask for a written reply - what implementation will look like and then control. I'm thinking of a particular case, namely aeroclub airports. Trial flights are night flights. Such a problem exists in Warsaw just at the airport of bemowski - unsolvable for many years. Research shows that the noise level is not exceeded (the bell), but for residents it is a nightmare that they cannot get rid of. People have to live, even when there is an airport and offers a really good business.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u158	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u159	On the other hand, this activity would be carried out within the limits of the applicable law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u160	Thank you, Member. The Member always promises me that he will fit in a minute and never keep this promise. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing the adoption of a law which is intended to implement the EU's Noise Directive. That's good, because noise is an issue that clearly affects our health, the comfort of life. We can safely say that we often no longer hear how much noise we live in. In this connection, I would like to ask government representatives: Are you planning any changes in the protection of our health, in terms of noise reduction in the context of changes in the regulations on acoustic screen construction, but also in terms of the protection of workers or the protection of night silence? These are issues that people often report to our offices as well. Does the government monitor these issues? What is the data in this regard? If you don't mind my asking, I'm also asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u162	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As amended 2 years ago, in principle a year ago, environmental law provided that the regulation of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs would also be amended in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health regarding permissible environmental noise levels due to the need to ensure adequate protection of the environment from noise and due to European Union legislation, and due to different situations, different types of buildings, different types of functions for which noise is generated or which accompany places where noise occurs. This regulation does not yet exist, and it is extremely necessary. We are still based on the 2007 regulation, slightly revised in 2014. As we have seen from today's discussion, from the arguments (the bell) that are falling, the problem is growing. It must be resolved on an ongoing basis. So my question is why there is still no regulation and when it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u164	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u165	Dear Marshal! Start time: 60 seconds. I will ask the Minister about the new nature of the mandate to issue an implementing act under Article. 73 Environmental law, changing from mandatory to optional. When issuing a permit, it is an obligation for the operator to ensure planning and spatial planning, due to the noise level... This is extremely important. I, we all talk about environmental protection, we all say we want to live in a safe, healthy environment, without noise. We understand progress, we understand that there will be more investment, but such a change, changing character from mandatory to optional, may give rise to a number of comments and doubts. And we don't know what the reason behind that change is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club. In the future, please sign up for the point where it belongs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u167	I signed up. I signed up for the last one, Your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u168	That's right, not...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u169	The last time. Never mind. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am here to claim the inhabitants of Warsaw, especially Bemowa, Żoliborza, Bielan, who have been struggling with the noise generated by Babice airport for many years and cannot cope with this problem. This is the airport where the training flights take place, although the airport belongs to the army, which disturbs peace and silence all day from Monday to Sunday, also on holidays. Imagine the situation that today in this wonderful weather you can't even put a little baby on a nap on the balcony or on the terrace, because the noise coming from the sky wakes up this baby. This is a situation that people can't rest, they can't sleep, they can't relax in their own home, and they still don't have good instruments to help them fight that noise. So I have a question, Minister, when are you going to deliver these instruments to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u170	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environmental Affairs of Minister Jack Ornament to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u171	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start by saying that this amendment or, in fact, the subject matter of the debate that is taking place here and concerning the amendment is actually a statement of the patient's condition. Noise maps are designed to diagnose where the disease is and then treat with this disease. These maps have been passed on to the local government. So here's the real thing... Of course, these questions are very valuable, they are important from the point of view of living in society and taking care of the comfort of the inhabitants, i.e. questions about noise, about places mentioned by Mrs Beyat, where noise is too intense. In order to determine this, noise maps must be created. This is purely technical. This measurement is to be collected and then passed on to the marshals. And the marshals are just going to make a diagnosis. As for the matter of deadlines and infringements, I will allow you to disagree with some issues, because - let us remember this - we often do so, at least in the department for which I am responsible, i.e.. waste management that the European Commission e.g. He doesn't send us the right guidelines. This was the case with the Single-use Plastics Directive, that we did not have the appropriate rules, so it is difficult for us to start or complete a legislative process that would involve the fact that at the moment when we would have adopted these rules and they would have entered into force, we would have had an outdated legal situation due to the lack of these guidelines. And there, for example. We waited, we just waited. This does not concern any financial resources that will be made available to Poland... or formal charges related to any of the penalties mentioned here, which was raised by Mrs Zielińska. As regards distance issues and those provisions, it is simply in the context of this amendment that, in view of the functioning in the legal area of certain administrative decisions, we also update the distance from places affected by the significant risk of disaster, if any, and these provisions are included in this amendment. As for the screens that were mentioned, and the controversy that has been observed for many years, I understand that this is about cases where we have a field, there is no development, and the screens appear. This is not the subject matter of this amendment and of the provisions for which I am responsible, but I can say that the extent to which these laws are concerned is the infrastructure which operates, i.e. it does not concern the space referred to here, where there is no construction. Mr Szopiński raised the topic of barking dogs. This is not reflected in the subject matter of the amendment of the Act - Environmental law. In practice, I know this is about the Code of Misdemeanors. Here I would recommend a visit to a behaviorist of a dog or a specialist, if this problem occurs, because it is not an object that will concern noise maps, they will not be associated in any way with our four-legged companions of life. Of course, on the questions raised by Mrs Fabisiak, I will answer in writing. It's a very important topic. Mrs Beyat also discussed the issue of airports, flights and the whole area of life where residents live - it was about Bemowo, Bielany. It's a valid question, but it's not directly related to the matter of this bill, so I'm going to address the appropriate department. I think that's all the questions. Oh, there was also Mr Braun's question about costs. They're individual. You can't tell zero-one how it's gonna look, because noise maps are about different spaces and there's the same cost in every place. As regards the measurements that are carried out in the case of road infrastructure, among others. the competence of environmental inspections. There is a methodology under which such tests are carried out. E.g. one of the elements of the test is the question of testing, the measurement of noise at night, so it is not so that this noise is only and only tested e.g. After hours 19 or 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u172	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Anna Paluch is also asking for the floor as rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been very short, in two sentences. Firstly, I thank the representatives of the clubs for their declaration of support for this project. I would like to stress once again that we are here in the vanguard, as the first state, we have taken action to put these new directives into legal order. And speaking of the questions and comments that have been raised, I would like to say that noise maps are some kind of technical document that allows effective corrective action to be taken and to minimise the effects of noise in society, namely the protection of the population of our residents, our voters from the effects of noise, and these measures must be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u174	Thank you very much, Member. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] No, thank you very much. [[But the Minister mentioned me by name.]] I'm sorry, really, to correct it. The discussion is closed. To the third... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You're trying so hard to get statistics.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and the Act on the Processing of Criminal Information (Prints No 2203 and 2221). I kindly ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, it is my pleasure to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and the Law on the Processing of Criminal Information. This is the printing bill 2203. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading on 27 April 2022. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 10 May 2022, invites the High Sejm to adopt the draft law contained in print 2221. Let me just remind you that the bill concerns the addition of a catalogue of entities entitled to request permission from the Minister of Justice for multiple, unlimited search of perpetual books in the central database of books about the head of the National Criminal Information Centre and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The draft law has received strong support over political divisions in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, so it is a very simple amendment, without any controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Daniel Milewski to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u177	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Legal tasks of the cash register agricultural insurance repeatedly oblige that authority to request information from the central database of perpetual books. Taking into account the scale of the institution's activities and the fact that each individual is conducting cases, this gives a lot of time and work, which is devoted to a tedious process of individual examination of each application. The process of obtaining consent for multiple, unlimited search of perpetual books in a central database that would be legally properly secured provides a guarantee of processing this information without endangering the data contained. The changes proposed in this Act will also directly affect the work of the Central Information Books of Perpetuals themselves who are obliged to deal with individual applications. This will save time both on the existing side and in the body itself. This will also save you the difficulties of conducting correspondence or handling. In addition to these benefits to the Treasury, which are revealed in a faster and more effective recovery of due property claims, these changes will also benefit KRUS stakeholders, i.e. farmers, as data from the central register are used to calculate the contribution due for pension insurance, which ultimately translates into the amount of the pension benefit. The accelerated path of the procedure will reduce waiting time and the risk of confusion directly affecting the material situation of the citizen, which we also particularly care about. The amended amendment also provides for the definition of a catalogue of property components related to the proceedings, a criminal offence that involves the processing of criminal information. The current regulation was flawed in terms of creating a legal gap for the lack of collection of data on objects and immovable property obtained as a result of the crime, repeatedly liquefying extortionable assets, thus enabling de facto their loss through the application of a criminal measure in accordance with Article. 44 criminal code. It is therefore fully understandable to give the head of the National Criminal Information Centre the right to apply for permission for multiple and unlimited searches of perpetual books in the central database of perpetual books, which will also allow for much faster and more effective work that translates into the inevitability and severity of the measures taken against criminals. Of course, these arguments presented by me result in the support of the Law and Justice Club for the contested law. Thank you very much to the House and to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u179	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law on amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and the Act on the Processing of Criminal Information, print no. 2203. The bill concerns allowing the head of the National Criminal Information Centre and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to request permission from the Minister of Justice for multiple, unlimited search of perpetual books in the central database of perpetual books. In fact, this agreement is needed in order to be able to find the number of the perpetual book relating to the property belonging to a particular person, by doing this search on the basis of certain criteria known to the KRUS or the head of KCIK, e.g. the address of the property or the name of the person concerned, and also to be able to check whether the person is the owner of any real estate in Poland at all. It has to be said that these will be further institutions entitled to carry out such checks, and they will be almost 30 in total. Introduction changes require legislative changes to the law on the processing of criminal information, namely changes concerning the definition of the scope of the criminal information processed, so that this scope slightly extends to property related to criminals and crimes committed by them, so that the scope of the criminal information processed includes not only objects, including property, used to commit a crime or lost in connection with a crime, but also objects, including property, obtained as a result of a crime, i.e. objects, including property in which certain persons have been subject to criminal offences. The Civic Coalition Club supports the changes contained in this law, although we are somewhat concerned and surprised at the fact that they concern a rather minor amendment, which is of course important from the point of view of the conduct of the perpetual accounting procedure. In total, there are about 25 000 cases conducted by these two institutions. within a year, so to some extent it will speed up the conduct and entries in the everlasting books. However, it must be said that we are dealing with quite gigantic queues, after the entry into the eternal book we often have to wait over a year. We would expect the government to present urgent system solutions, but they would allow faster procedures and entries in perpetual books. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u181	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft amendment to the perpetual books and mortgage law and the law on the processing of criminal information contained in print No 2203. According to the proposed regulations of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, KRUS, and the head of the National Criminal Information Centre will be given the opportunity to request permission from the Minister of Justice for multiple, unlimited search of perpetual books in the central database of perpetual books. The permission to search for perpetual books provided for in the Act is needed in order for these institutions to find the number of the perpetual book concerning property belonging to a particular person, by doing this search on the basis of criteria known to KRUS or the head of KCIK - e.g. the address of the property, the name, the name of the person concerned - and also to be able to check whether the person is the owner of any real estate in Poland, and if so, which particular property. The aim of the proposed regulation is above all to make it easier for these institutions to carry out their statutory tasks and to have a positive impact on the time these bodies deal with matters. Currently, the KRUS is required to claim unpaid insurance contributions and one of these forms is to provide insurance for farmers' social security contributions and health insurance through the entry of a compulsory mortgage in the debtor's perpetual property book. Thanks to the proposed solutions of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the head of the National Criminal Information Centre, they will be able to request permission from the Minister for multiple and unlimited search of perpetual books in the central database. In order to obtain this access, they will have to comply with the conditions set out in the Everlasting Books and mortgage Act. This applies in particular to the conditions for the possession of electronic devices or systems enabling the person receiving the data from the central database of the perpetual books, the scope of the data and the date on which it is obtained. It is also about having technical and organisational safeguards to protect against the use of the data obtained which are not in accordance with the objective. The estimated number of requests sent by the KRUS to the central database of perpetual accounts for the provision of information is around 2700 applications per year. As regards the arrangements for criminal information related to objects, including property derived from crime, the scope of the criminal information processed will cover not only objects, including property, used to commit a crime or lost in connection with a crime, but also objects, including real estate, resulting from a crime. In such a situation, criminal information would cover inter alia. data on real estate that have been acquired through specific persons as a result of e.g. money laundering. As regards the proposed solutions, as a result of their adoption more actors will have access to the central database of perpetual books. And although new solutions will only enter into force 2 years after the publication in the Official Journal - I assume that it is a matter of time needed to adapt the ICT system and infrastructure - but the change is necessary, on purpose, as it will facilitate the performance of their statutory tasks to institutions, it will reduce the time taken by these units. Therefore, the Left Club supports this submission, of course also bearing in mind other proceedings in the perpetual books and looking forward to the government presentation, which will also improve other proceedings in the perpetual books section. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u182	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u183	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We rarely proceed with a bill that raises no significant doubts. This is all the more rare when it is a project prepared by the Ministry of Justice, so I think that the great joy of all of us today in this Chamber is filling that we can take care of such a project. I will not, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, repeat the main assumptions of this project, because, as I said, they do not raise any major objections. It is to be welcomed that, through the ICT system, a very important part of the circulation of documents will be improved between institutions. It's a good thing that's happening. One would like to say that it would be good to make even more of these improvements, it saves money, saves time. I think the public administration today should be guided by such an idea. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition will always be kind enough to approach solutions that improve the comfort of public institutions. And like most clubs, we will also support this project. May it be adopted as soon as possible. At the same time, I think it is appropriate to keep our fingers crossed so that those who take up the physical implementation of this system will also be able to cope effectively with this challenge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a draft law on amending the law on perpetual books and mortgage and the law on the processing of criminal information. This law, this short project, gives in essence the possibility of access to the survey of the perpetual book without having its direct number to a new entity or new entities: KRUS and the National Center for Criminal Information, its head, i.e. the Chief of Police, de facto the Police, which will be expressed expressis verbis and not, as so far, indirectly. As for the advantages, it will improve the possibility, among others. the recovery of debts by KRUS from sovereign debtors. And when it comes to the police, the real ones will speed up access. It's an existing right, because it is right now, but without intermediaries. This will increase the speed of access of police and special services to this matter. These are good tools to strengthen the state, to improve state action. This is partly aimed at debtors, partly at criminals, but there is our doubt about improving these tools when they own the Government of Law and Justice. In our opinion, PiS patriotism is limited to party patriotism. You prefer to build a strong party than a strong country, you don't deserve to trust, you don't deserve to strengthen that power, you politicize the state, you stubborn state and service. The latest example of this is the blocking of independent Internet television inReal24. en via the Internal Security Agency. A political decision, a decision on the assassination of free journalism, a decision on journalism, which is not the propaganda of one or the other party headquarters, only independent journalism, even if someone doesn't like it, is bound by the journalist's profession. In summary, through such steps you reduce the trust of Poles in the Polish state and it deserves criticism. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the room: He said nicely.]] [[Voice from the hall: He learned and speaks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u186	Could you please silence the discussion? I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to present the position of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Three articles, a short project called actually technical. In these situations, I often use the words'minisc' to make up for it. Minimum useless words, maximum good law. But still a little bit of those words. Three articles, a simple design, but five years of work lasted. 5 years, because in the first part of the statement of reasons, Minister, it was written that the initiation of legislative work was dictated by the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of 14 June 2017 to take a legislative initiative to amend the article, which was wrongly mentioned in paragraph 1. The 8th law on perpetual books and mortgage was added to the head of the National Criminal Information Centre to the circle of entities entitled to apply for the permission of the Minister of Justice for multiple unlimited searches of perpetual books in the central database, and a letter from the Department of Information Technology and Court Registers dated 10 July 2017 to add the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to the circle of these entities. Five years, and so many announcements about speed, about improvement, about how you want to improve everything. And another thing is I'd prefer it in my mouth. Article 8 36 with Index 4 were deleted and no more were added. These two are number 27 and 28. It is clear from the provisions that access to perpetual books will continue with the agreement of the Minister of Justice. There's a mist in the explanatory memorandum for some, perhaps just a mist, maybe it's worth distracting, Minister. Therefore, please give a precise answer that there is no way, ba, there is not even an idea for a separate automatic system of checking, checking, searching, searching. Minister, it's worth distracting the fog, maybe just a mist, and clearly confirm that the courts will be informed of every search attempt. Three articles. It's a short project. Once again, five years of preparation. I would therefore encourage you to speed up the drafting of a bill, which was also mentioned in order to unload the real traffic jams concerning, for example, entries in perpetual books. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u188	Thank you very much. We are now approaching the questions. Twelve people signed up. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list again? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing the bill on amending the law on perpetual books and mortgage and the law on the processing of criminal information. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration requested this legislative initiative in 2017 - 5 years ago. Everyone wonders if even their own minister has to wait five years to take some steps and make some changes. Minister! I have this question: Do you think that 5 years in three articles is a short period to work out, or was it a sufficient period, or is it not enough yet? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the last few years we have dealt with a number of laws which this House has adopted, but also in the last few months we have dealt with the laws that we have dealt with and which have been adopted and implemented two weeks after their announcement. Such a decisive example can be the Polish Load. You brought this country on Wednesday, passed it on Friday and in a moment we will change this Polish Load, which was so well prepared by you. In this connection, I would like to ask: Why does the designer provide for 2 years of vacathio legis in so few complex laws as this law? To whom and why should such a long period of delay be used to complete documents in a reliable and complete manner about buildings related to the crimes committed (the Bell)? Polish Load could be quickly, why is it so long here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, if he is in the Chamber. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The request by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration for unlimited access to the central database of perpetual books, as regards the powers for the head of the National Criminal Information Centre, is understandable. I wanted to ask you about the reasons for this law when it comes to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. What has changed since the submission of the application in 2017 until today as regards entitlement, about the statutory scope of the functioning of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund? The point is, first of all, you had to wait five years, and second of all, you just... What new tasks of the cash register cause you to apply for such a right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u194	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The catalogue of entities entitled to apply to the Minister of Justice for approval of multiple and, in principle, unlimited use of perpetual books is very long. This already applies to more than 25 entities, and others are proposed today in the draft law. I would like to ask the Minister what is the scale of the needs of these actors and whether it really justifies the need to extend this catalogue. After all, waiting time is not an argument. The long waiting time is a great problem of all Poles, not just some institutions. Instead of resolving the problem for everyone and improving the functioning of the perpetual books, some people have selective access, so to speak, outside the queue. I think it's dangerous when it comes to books (the bell) forever and owners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The act under investigation will enable the CRU and the head of the National Criminal Information Centre to search for perpetual books that go beyond the general rules and do not belong to anyone and is made available to everyone only a specific group of entities due to their specific statutory tasks. In principle, these entities should have electronic devices or systems to identify the person receiving the data from the central database of the perpetual books, the extent of the data obtained and the date on which they are obtained. In this case, there is a question of technical and organisational security. Do the institutions mentioned above have adequate safeguards to prevent access to unauthorised persons who could use the data obtained incorrectly (the Ringtone) for their intended purpose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you, Minister, to explain, first of all, what technical conditions this unit must fulfil, who is asking for permission to search this resource unlimitedly and receives a positive response from the Ministry. I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Secondly, does the Ministry control whether any individual who has such access to the books has been checked in the last five years? The question is whether the conditions that this entity has declared during the connection process are met on an ongoing basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u200	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u201	I'm not gonna talk about what's in this bill, but I'm gonna talk about what's not in it, and I think the Minister is gonna answer all of us when it comes to this case. In theory, the eternal books are public, so I would like to see the Minister speak once again about the right of access of certain entities. Secondly, we were dealing with the transmission of records and the introduction of electronic registers of perpetual books. We have created migration centres and these books have emigrated, we have access to them in electronic form. In this case, is there still a number of collections of documents not transferred to the electronic database of perpetual books, and how do you deal with it? Because we didn't solve that problem. And now for quicker execution. Does it seem to the Minister that if the objective of this law were to be achieved, the five-year deadline for dealing with Paulian complaints is sufficient (the Bell) or would it be worth extending it in case of long proceedings and hiding property? I will also talk about a faster deadline for entering mortgages on collateral, among others. loans. It is about what is happening in Warsaw, but also in other large centres - maybe not today - because of the willingness to acquire and borrow housing loans. The thing is extremely difficult is a timely entry, because then... Its absence will affect either credit insurance or an additional commission, which will charge the borrowers. You're talking about one side when it comes to fighting high costs. For years, at least two years I've been writing to Minister Ziobra on this matter as Minister of Justice, and you haven't done anything in two years. What are you gonna do now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm intrigued by two things. First of all, we all know that making changes or writings in the eternal books is actually a horror, because it takes a long time to wait for any entry or any reaction. And here we have two additional sources that can demand different information. And here is my first question: Will this service in courts, as far as the eternal books are concerned, be co-financed for this, and will this action be more efficient? And second question. I'm interested in KRUS. I assume that the farmer, wanting to have a pension, is making real information to the KRUS because it's in his best interest. Then why do we want the KRUS to further check such a farmer, and for what purpose? [[Paid contributions.]] Because we assume farmers are lying. What is the scale of the problem that in an unlimited and multiple way we can control (the Bell) such situations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the provisions of this bill, I think that here, despite some doubts, we will have the agreement in the House, but I would like to ask the Minister something, because yesterday at the committee meeting you mentioned work on a law that could also allow notaries to see the books of eternity. And the question is: Or is it changing there? Is there any other work being done at the Ministry? Indeed, the waiting period for an entry in the perpetual book of more than one year is not only a problem, but it is also a real cost, which is borne by the borrowers, for example, in connection with the increased insurance. So, is this work in progress at the Ministry of Justice? If so, what solutions and when will the Ministry present these draft laws in the Sejm? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter of eternal books, the corrections, and all we're doing is obvious. But I have a question for the Minister, for the entire justice system under Mr Ziobra: What's next with the Disciplinar Chamber? You let go of the empty hall, we talk about important matters that determine the fate of millions of Poles, and we don't decide about the Disciplinary Chamber. In this debate, I would like to specifically raise this issue, so that it may finally hear once and for all whether the Ministry of Justice will give us the chance to have money from the European Union, so that Mr. Ziobro and his team, who is in this ministry, will open the door to Europe, or will we continue to increase inflation by not eliminating the Disciplinary Chamber. This is the time and this place. In every debate we will repeat this so that you do not waste this time, because we help people with eternal books, and you cannot open our doors to Europe and give us a chance to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber and accept this money for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka closes the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u209	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wonder what the effect of this law will be because the National Center for Criminal Information already has access to the register of perpetual books. This access is unlimited, this access is unlimited, it is based on the agreement of the Minister of Justice and subject to some sort of illusory, but still a review by the courts. The State is talking about the need to limit paper correspondence between KCIK and the courts, but the justification for this law shows that the aim is to create unlimited automatic access to the databases of the register of perpetual books, without control, without any reports. Is this the next stage of building a state that follows us every step of the way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u210	Thank you very much. Since the rapporteur is not in the Chamber, we now very much ask that Mr Marcin Warchoł, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u211	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The reform of the judiciary is also a reform of electronic procedures. At the moment, one third of the cases affecting the courts are already in an electronic manner. We want most things to be done from the smartphone level: check the state of the case, look at the documents. This is now included in the law, which is at the stage of the government's procession. Meanwhile, today we are talking about the next stage of the reform of the electronic system of perpetual books. This system already supports about 200 million searches, ladies and gentlemen. It is estimated that the number of searches in the system of electronic perpetual books in the web browser is almost 200 million of these activities. In addition, we introduced July 1st Ub. r. e-service system. In this system, almost 8 million letters have already been delivered thanks to extensive work at the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to wait for a return receipt, which takes weeks or months. It shall be sent to the addressee within 24 hours of the approval of the letter. In addition, the National Debt Register. Another electronic system - the one I am talking about - entered into force on 1 December Ub. r. Restructuring procedures, long-term entrepreneurs are carried out in the electronic system efficiently, quickly, without unnecessary formalities. What we're doing today is restricting unnecessary paperwork to the department of perpetual books, where there really is a narrow throat. This number of several months, which is as much as those with mortgages are currently waiting, is due to three issues. Well, first of all, the pandemic, second of all, the perpetual use law, third of all, the investment boom made it true that in large voivodeship cities there is more than a year of waiting for a mortgage to be entered in the perpetual book. But we're changing it. And here's the bill you're asking about is already at the process stage of the Council of Ministers. It assumes that notaries have access to perpetual books, so that those who are already preparing applications for this entry, which in 99% end with just an entry, can make such an entry themselves, with appropriate safeguards, of course. This will allow for an excellent acceleration of cases conducted in the perpetual accounting departments. This change, which we are talking about today - I answer one of the questions - is intended, first, to charge the farmer's pension insurance contribution by checking the condition declared by the farmer with real status in the perpetual book and, secondly, to secure through a compulsory mortgage unpaid contributions. Therefore, it will be possible to check this information without knowing the number of the perpetual book. Today it is necessary - I answer the question of Mrs Skowronska - to know the number of the perpetual book so that I can check the property so that I can see it. Meanwhile, KRUS and KCIK will be given the opportunity to review, which will be based on information about the location of the property plus the name of the owner. This will certainly speed things up, relieve the perpetual accounting departments from a huge number of cases. Ladies and gentlemen, that's over 25,000. cases: more than 20,000. cases concerning the National Criminal Information Centre, and almost 5,000. matters relating to the CRUS. This is a huge number of proceedings that require each time a stamp to be applied to an envelope, to make paper correspondence, to send it, to obtain an acknowledgement of receipt. That is why we release huge capacity just to use it to effectively enter mortgages into perpetual books and thus help many borrowers who have been waiting for this entry for months today, paying bridge insurance costs, often paying additionally other costs, e.g. for low own contribution or increased margin. Therefore, what we are doing today is very important for those who are waiting for the quick entry of the mortgage into the perpetual book, and this will be realized when our key reform, the admission of notaries into the perpetual books, enters into force. This is at a stage, as I said, of government work, and I hope that we can deal with this in this room as soon as possible. Further questions related to technical safeguards. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today's article. 36 As for migration - Mrs Skowrońska asked for migration - it was already done in 2016 and the collections of documents are not subject to migration. The collections of documents, let me remind you, are intended for real estate, for which a perpetual book cannot be established. Today they are no longer assumed, this has been done in the past, while the collections of migration documents are not subject. Thank you so much for supporting this bill. It is of great importance to all those who are waiting for the quick entry of the mortgage into the eternal book. By unleashing these processing powers, we will be able to allocate the resources of the secretariats of the departments of perpetual books, to use them for other, more necessary purposes. We're saving resources, time, opportunities because there's a huge number of cases, over 25,000. cases per year will be carried out in a fast, efficient and electronic manner. Thank you very much. [[Minister, you haven't said anything about those five years. What took you so long? Three articles. And time is running out.]] Thank you very much, Mr Zimoch, for the positive assessment of our project. In fact, minimum words, maximum efficiency. I'm so glad you appreciate my contribution. [[I think you misunderstood.]] This is related to the whole digital reform I was talking about. As I said, July 1st. The information portal has entered, which has already reached 8 million service. [[But in 2017]] In addition, there were 170 million searches in the search engine of perpetual books, 40% cases shall be conducted in electronic form in the departments of perpetual books. On the other hand, correspondence with the National Center for Criminal Information, with the KRUS, with the entities that need to prepare these systems, required that it be such a period, not another. Officials, ministries then received this information, as you mentioned, but of course they had to prepare the appropriate electronic, IT resources. And it took me in this position just to implement this reform today, the full computerization of the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[There's no way to defend it. Votum separatum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u212	Mr President, this is not how we conduct discussions. The Minister seems to have justified his ability. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws (Prints No. 2186 and 2239). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u213	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm at its 53rd meeting on 27 April in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been sent by the Government to the Committee on Public Finance to review the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. After considering the above draft law at its meeting on 10 May 2022, the Public Finance Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The draft law submitted on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act referred to in the print report 2239 aims at simplifying and improving the tax system currently in force. For many years, tax laws have raised concerns, among others. on the issue of instability, high fiscalism and the sense of injustice due to the non-social role of tax redistribution, which was particularly highlighted by the low- and medium-sized groups. Aware of the challenges in this area, the Law and Justice Government has attempted to amend its tax laws to address problems, including problems. within the framework of the Polish Order. However, the scope, depth and pace of the changes have highlighted problems in the practical application of the new rules, such as the ambiguities of certain provisions, inconsistencies and complexity. By monitoring these problems, the government has taken a swift and - it must be acknowledged - a courageous decision to correct errors in cooperation with dozens of actors and organisations, which results in the project being processed today. The main effect of the reform of the tax system, as well as the current project, is among others. a reduction in the tax wedge for virtually all taxpayers, including those earning above average wages. Here the most important solutions are a reduction in the tax rate in the first tax scale from 17% to 12%. and restore the possibility of deduction of health insurance premiums for persons engaged in business and clearing of linear tax, lump sum and tax card. These are positive changes because the tax-free amount will increase to 30,000. PLN as well as income threshold on a scale of up to 120 thousand. zł, as it turned out in practice, did not compensate for the consequences of not being able to deduct social security contributions. Another important solution in this project is to restore preferential taxation of the income of single parents while excluding from the taxable income of the parent of the pension received by children, including the survivor's pension, and to increase the annual income earned by the child up to 25 years old from PLN 3089 to around 15 thousand. zł without the risk of a parent's loss of preferences. PIT-0 is also extended to maternity benefits. The possibility to deduct expenditure on the purchase of historic real estate is also removed, leaving the possibility to deduct expenditure on conservation or renovation works of historic real estate, but only those which are in the register of monuments, because this issue of counting expenditure on the purchase of historic real estate raised many social concerns. Another solution is the introduction of a supplementary mechanism due to a decrease in the amount of 1% write-downs. tax on public benefit organisations due to a reduction in the overall tax revenue pool. The tax absolution introduced since 2022 is also abolished where flat-rate taxable income has not been fully or even partially declared by the taxpayer. This kind of absolution is endured. Around these problems, because these are the most important issues to which this project is concerned, there has been a discussion. Many amendments have been tabled. Most of the amendments were editorial and legislative. Of course, we have managed to solve these problems with the help of the Legal Office of the Sejm, for which we thank the employees of the Legislative Office working with the Public Finance Commission - for this enormous effort, speed and competence. Without your help, it would be much harder for us to deal with these problems in such a short time. Substantive amendments were also tabled, inter alia. in this matter, which I was talking about, in order to relieve the monuments only to cover conservation work. The next amendments concerned an attempt to clarify the way in which taxpayers withdraw and amend their statements and requests, to extend the deadline for entering contract data in the register and to increase their value to PLN 1500 without VAT until 1 January 2023, among others. for local government units, as well as the exemption from the revenue of funds transferred by PFRON from 10 March 2022, as the relevant provisions entered into force on that date. There were also amendments and proposals to abolish the savings tax, so-called. Belka's tax. There were also proposals by Members to change the mechanism for calculating compensation for NGOs in relation to the proposed project, as well as to change the way in which single parents are billed against the tax. During the discussion, the Legislative Office reported, and some Members reported a problem such as that the change of tax laws takes place during the tax year and that they are not always beneficial and often unfavourable changes, such as. elimination of reliefs. Specifically addressing the issue of the elimination of reliefs: it is known that, like any liquidation of the reliefs, this is a negative change. It has been stressed that such a procedure violates the fundamental principles of the legal security of citizens' confidence in the rule of law. At the same time, it was stressed that some of the provisions of the Act, or rather the amendments tabled to this project do not concern income tax, but concern completely different contracts, relate to other laws, such as the Penal Code, the Public Finance Act... It's about the Penal Code, it's about the provisions of the article. 10, therefore, go beyond the subject-matter of the project, beyond the subject-matter of the Act and have therefore been introduced without first reading. Following this discussion, a vote took place, where 24 members of the finance committee voted in favour, 14 abstained, no one opposed it. The Committee on Public Finance therefore proposes that the attached draft be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u215	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position regarding printing no. 2186, a draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! As in the first reading, we voted in favour of a positive opinion on this printing, and we want to repeat it. It is undoubtedly a law that is very conducive to the Polish taxpayer and it seems that a special law, also looking at previous years and the nature of all kinds of tax rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important change in this law for the Polish taxpayer is to reduce the income tax on individuals from 17% to 12% in a very significant way. for people in the first threshold, but also remember that the tax-free amount is maintained at the level of 30,000, i.e. it has increased dramatically compared to what we could have observed a few years ago, as well as the level of the first threshold at the level of 120,000 is maintained. zł, which also increased significantly. Why am I talking about this tax reduction? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tax that, in fact, each of us pays, but has been reduced in this first group by almost 30%. - from 17% to 12%. This is essential for most Polish taxpayers. I would like to recall that a dozen billion zlotys will be added to the pockets of every Polish taxpayer who settles in this form, but it must also be made clear that dozens of millions of Poles gain from it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a major change, a major change, but also a change that brings about in the aspects that President Gabriela Masłowska has said about, a very large number of other positive changes for the Polish taxpayer. It is important that at this difficult time, because I don't think anyone is questioning this, we are able, ladies and gentlemen, to bring about a situation where tax burdens will be lower, where also changes not only regarding income tax, but... Some of the things that were criticised by some of our colleagues from the committee were also solutions concerning, for example, an extension, a certain extension concerning, for example, a reduction in the fuel levy or excise duty, especially as regards fuel. This is all very important, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are actually facing inflation. Besides, similar solutions are applied not only in Poland, in many other countries in Europe or in the world, but we are glad to be able to afford them on the one hand today, but on the other hand we also react in such a way as to relieve the burden on individual taxpayers' portfolios in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I make two amendments to the bill. One, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the principle of division between public benefit organisations. We discussed this during the committee meeting, this discussion took place. The Minister has prepared a proposal after it, which we accept and we will certainly support. The second amendment is the amendment concerning subsidies for local government units. These two amendments, one in the article. 7, the second will be if, of course, it is adopted by the committee and consequently by Parliament, Article. 7a. I'm not gonna just call him in here. Nevertheless, I hope that within literally the next few dozens... maybe not minutes, but after an hour, two hours, we can discuss this on the committee. Both amendments, in my opinion, also serve citizens, but also organisations that work for citizens. Mr. Marshal, on your hands, let me make these amendments, stressing once again that the Law and Justice Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u216	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the club and the amendments. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have time for graduating, so maybe I'll start with a slightly changed quote from Jan Kochanowski: The new parable of PiS will buy itself, that also before damage, and after damage to stupidity. And what was the damage? This is what all Poles learned at the beginning of January. This damage was the introduction of the New Deal, at which the Ministry and Prime Minister Morawiecki, and PiS here, in this Chamber, assured that this is a great tax reduction for Poles. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out to be a big disaster. Poles started earning much less because they started paying much higher taxes. And let us remember what happened in the Seym when this New Deal was introduced. Express tempo, no consultation with specialists, even the Legal Office of the Sejm refused to give an opinion because it didn't have time. Everyone assured us it was gonna be okay, and it was terrible. Today we are considering this bill precisely because the New Deal turned out to be a major legislative disaster. Well? The PiS didn't learn anything. Again expressly, again without consultation, because the Committee on Public Finance started working on this project yesterday around noon, today we already have a second reading, and tomorrow we will probably vote on it, Mr. Marshal. And in the committee meeting room, we heard that, due to the lack of time, certain provisions could not be improved, because of the lack of time, certain provisions could not even be given a good opinion. You haven't learned anything. I'm afraid no one knows exactly what kind of chaos it's gonna be after July 1st when these laws come into force. I'm going to say again, chaos is what you do to fix chaos. And returning to the project, I would like to point out that despite the assurances made by the Ministry, the Prime Minister, that this project is constitutional because it is beneficial for all taxpayers, suddenly yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance there were trade unionists representing two professional groups who claim that they will lose and will have lower wages after the introduction of these rules. They were police officers and customs officers, but the arguments they made showed that this wage reduction would apply to all uniformed professional groups. Well, congratulations - on the eastern border war, and the soldiers will have lower wages from July 1st. That's great. The second point is that you change the tax system during the tax year. And the problem is that this country is changing the rules of the game, and the taxpayer cannot freely adapt to these rules. We make an amendment that allows taxpayers to choose the form of taxation after 1 July. It can't be that in Poland the PiS can do anything, and the ordinary citizen can't do anything. [[Applause]] We are also once again making an amendment on single parents. It cannot be that relief for these people will be a relief for only half a child, and a child who is raised by two parents will have full relief. This is a great injustice. Really, Minister, there are no better and worse children. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] There's a tax write-off for a public benefit organization. Instead of weird compensation granted by even more strange organs controlled by the PiS, we offer a simple procedure. Right now, we have 1%. copy, we propose 1.5% Which size will compensate for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let the Poles decide because they know better and feel better whether they want to transfer this money to terminally ill children, to parents who raise disabled children, or whether they want to transfer it to an animal shelter or to training children in sports clubs. Let them decide, not the Ministry of Finance. [[Applause]] Because for them there is no money for you, but for the oligarchs of PiS money is because the relief for the palace+ does not disappear. Yesterday we learned that Mr. Obajtek and the other Oligarchs of PiS with their palaces have acquired rights and they cannot be taken away from them. Poles can, oligarchs of PiS - no. [[Applause]] We are making a few more legislative amendments explaining some vague wording, because this is the fact that yesterday, throughout the whole meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, self-corrections from your ministry and from other ministries were constantly affected. It's not a well-prepared project. Tomorrow's vote depends on whether or not you support the amendments eliminating these glaring injustices in the tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the Left Club on this bill, I don't know what to call it, fixing it, improving it or eliminating it. Today, as a Left, we feel that you want to tell all Poles nothing at the National Stadium: nothing happened, Poles, nothing happened. [[Applause]] It happened, unfortunately, it happened. You have introduced the biggest tax mess in the post-war history of Poland, because I will remind you that the third tax system has already been introduced in this project in the last six months. In conclusion, although there is nothing to laugh at here, one can say, back to the old days, that there is such a famous summary. The listener calls to Radio Erevan and asks: Mr. Editor, how do we solve problems that are unsolvable? The editor answers: We do not deal with matters of Polish Load. And that's pretty much the document. Here is what you write in the explanatory memorandum, which is beautifully written: Sustainability, consistency, transparency of tax solutions is extremely important not only for taxpayers of income tax, but also for entrepreneurs who are taxpayers of personal income tax. That's right. The main objective of the proposed solutions is to improve, simplify the tax system. The new regulations are also designed to ensure the stability of the system for the coming years. It's the first time you've unworn this system, you've made a giant mess, people have lost their wages and salaries, and today you want to make a system stable for the next few years with this bill, which you're bringing back on such a principle that it needs to be voted out quickly and quickly. Again there will be the same catastrophe as in the case of the entry into force of the Polish Load Act on 1 January. Now that the PiS government wants to secure some stability for us, it's better that they don't deal with these taxes at all and return to this system that was just. That's how I feel. Then we'll know it's stable. [[Applause]] Of course, we hope that the project will be developed in the social consensus - you wrote so well in the explanatory memorandum. You've made this mess yourself, you'll be responsible for this mess. Don't look for friends here who are gonna be in this mess just helping you. It's all by itself. You have done and you must tell Poles how and what can be done to improve anything about it. This is the problem of the United Right and the majority of the Seym which adopted this legal bubble in 2021. Of course, in the explanatory memorandum, you say that it is about adapting tax preferences to the widest possible range of eligible entities, which will promote the realisation of the idea of a fair tax system. I would ask, however, that the tax system be clear, simple and legible, rather than applying tax preferences to the widest possible range of taxpayers, but that taxpayers know what taxes in a given year for their remuneration or for their work are to pay. Another thing. Of course, the downside to the middle class, the relief for single mothers, was lifted. It's all been lifted. And what do you do later when it comes to business issues? It's been a long time since we've seen this kind of puriazum, but I guess it's the right thing to do. You write that after the end of 2022 you will be able to choose a tax scale for taxing income from non-agricultural economic activities. Beautiful thing. It will simply be possible to choose the tax system after the end of the tax year, otherwise it will not be possible to pay. And one last thing: local governments. Of course, today, Mr President says there will be an amendment to local governments. The influence on local governments. 2022 - zero loss in the case of PIT. I don't know how you guys do that. It is not known at all how you calculate these losses in the case of PIT. There are no calculations to be clear. The Ministry of Finance has not provided any calculations as regards issues relating to losses in the case of PIT, for example related to the reduction of this PIT. Just so we're clear, I've explained before, it's not a tax reduction at all. 2023: -11, 2024: -8 billion, 2025: -8 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the sake of clarity, on average every year local governments will lose PLN 10 billion each year. Therefore, the question is how do you want to compensate, because we have no answer to that question. And to conclude, I would like to say that we are making an amendment on this unfair system of settling single parents, single parents, parents of children, because we want them to be treated as disabled people, so that, in short, they also have a double relief in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It's hard not to see these empty benches of the United Right. I don't know if this should be considered as a kind of bad recommendation for a project or a coincidence, but it doesn't look good. [[How many PSL members are there?]] As Prime Minister Morawiecki said a few months ago, it was supposed to be an American dream. Today we have to ask this question, Prime Minister, because this American dream has turned into a Polish nightmare, which is experienced by Polish families, Polish entrepreneurs. Today you're trying to share responsibility for this mess with the whole House. Of course, we will bear this responsibility, but knowing perfectly well whose side are the mistakes. As I pointed out at the first reading of this project, when it comes to tax law, it is such an old principle that tax changes need to be prepared, they need to be discussed, not carried out radical open-heart surgery, especially when the patient is barely waving, and it seems that this is the case in our case. The course of yesterday's work in the Committee on Public Finance fully confirms this opinion. Legislators from the Parliamentary Legislative Office have repeatedly pointed out that the scope of the proposed solutions introduced in the same way as those introduced in the case of the infamous New Polish Order in such an urgent manner is difficult to assess seriously, because reliable work on tax law requires much more time than the government and the Marshal of the Sejm gave us, Members and legal experts. For the Polish Coalition club it is clear that this extraordinary pace is the consequence of the violent withdrawal of the government from the first version of the Polish Load, which introduced very harmful solutions, especially for teachers, entrepreneurs, parents raising children alone. However, the result of this poor government policy is a huge chaos in the tax system, which especially many entrepreneurs cost a lot, and consequently also the Polish economy, because first you had to spend a lot of money to adapt to new bad New Deal solutions introduced since 1 January, and now again you will have to bear the cost of adapting to new solutions completely different from the January version, which under this law will enter into force on 1 July. As a result, as a result of your fatal policy, you are still creating huge chaos in an area that should be the most stable in order to create conditions for all citizens, especially entrepreneurs, for normal functioning, including shopping planning or investment. Today, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland can declare that after taking away the power of PiS we will restore a good tax system that will facilitate, not hinder, life and business activity. Therefore, during this debate today, during the second reading on the so-called. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I want to make a number of amendments that meet the demands and expectations of Polish micro-, small entrepreneurs. In the first place, our amendments concern the elimination of the so-called. Belka tax, because today is not the time for this tax. But we also want to ask for a threshold of profitability, the inclusion of public-law claims in the inclusion of income tax, the inclusion of investment expenditure and a number of other projects which, for the sake of entrepreneurs, should be found in this bill today, so as to minimise the severe effects of perturbation, which are served by the Polish government to those who today allow you, dear state, to announce various programs, to spend funds on different (the Bell), sometimes necessary, projects. These are those who provide the funds, because not all funds are from the printing house of the National Bank of Poland, not all funds are loans which Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego takes. The majority of the budget is the income generated by entrepreneurs. Sometimes we appeal as a club The Polish Coalition for this: Remember this, remember these entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoñ, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will start with this reflection after this brief debate. Mrs Law and Justice, speaking of this draft law to correct the so-called law. New Deal, she said these changes didn't work out because people didn't understand the changes they were making quickly. I am outraged by such great intellectual disvolution, because, ladies and gentlemen, all these problems of people and companies were caused by party officials of Law and Justice, for whom the preparation of tax changes was probably the first job, and this chaos took place because they did not understand what it meant to work hard and fight for the existence of families, companies and employees. PiS did not listen to us at the time, because if the government listened to factual arguments and proposals such as experts or Poland 2050... [[An intellectual.]] ...it's this chaos that citizens could avoid. There's something you're making right here, e.g. the rules on multi-children's families and the formula PIT-0, but it was personally promised to me by Minister Sarnowski five months ago. You've been trying to fix what you've ruined for five months. It's a bit like this food that we hear in Poland today, that just one law and justice activist is enough to ruin everything, but we still don't know how many activists it takes to fix anything. Will this project prevent tax chaos this year and this year's billing next year? The risk that he won't prevent is enormous. I think that citizens should already book queues for the accounting offices today. This is how it's gonna end. The project, which is the subject of the work of the High House, must also be repaired. Some amendments were also tabled by Poland 2050. Firstly, we have tabled amendments on the 1% transfer. Next year these measures will be less. The state budget is right to compensate. Law and Justice, however, do not want this money to go to an organization that really helps people. The mechanism proposed by the PiS government is designed so that the money goes to the extremely right-wing party facilities of the PiS and strengthens them before the election campaign. The amendment of Poland 2050 introduces reliable criteria for compensation for public benefit organisations, which really help people. Stop taking money from those who want to help. Secondly, we have tabled an amendment aligning the rights of single parents with those of other parents. I wanted to ask what kind of ideology it is that a single parent's child is only half a child. I think it's unique on the scale of the world. We are eliminating this legal manifestation of discrimination. We call on the government to stop the ideological (Bingle) discrimination against parents. Third thing - Belka's tax. Our amendment will suspend the collection of Belka's tax on small savings. This applies to people who have relatively small savings and keep them in banks today. Low interest rates make them pay 100% sometimes Belka's tax. This is unacceptable. The inflation the government caused is taking their money. This is unacceptable. As a result, I am making amendments to the marshal's hand. I hope that the good amendments of Poland 2050, which are in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Poland, will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u224	Thank you very much. I would now like to invite you to the speaker of Mr Bosak, who will present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is a symptomatic situation that we are discussing another attempt to sanate Polish disorder, and the benches of the ruling coalition are completely empty. There is one Member who comes from the rest of my former party, the League of Polish Families. There's no one in government benches, at least in the first row. The officials of the Ministry of Finance forced to be present safely in the furthest benches, as far away from the platform as possible, and as far away from the cameras as possible, from the watchful eyes of voters. No one wants to be remembered in the event of a catastrophe, failure, which turned out to be Polish disorder or anti-Polish order, I do not remember exactly...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u226	Then perhaps we can invite you and the Minister together to sit a little closer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u227	Come closer, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u228	Minister, come in. [[Don't be shy.]] We know you're very modest, but maybe you'll come.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u229	The Vice-Marshal is not denied, but we can see that the officials of the Ministry of Finance are shy in the back. Let it be a signal to us. [[They're ashamed.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how did this all start? Let us go back to autumn 2020 when the first speculations on the new ambitious economic agenda of the government, i.e. the Strategy for Responsible Development, emerged. It was solemnly accepted by the government, honked about it in the media for several years, there was propaganda, but it didn't turn out to be enough. There were mysterious announcements that there would be something new. On 20 March 2021, a presentation of 10 areas to be dealt with by the Government's New Deal took place. A mysterious name. What's behind this? We learned more about 15 May 2021, a year ago. Then the Law and Justice Programme Convention took place. There were colorful lights, TV broadcasts, all the media's interest. PiS presented a presentation of tax changes in Nowy Łada, changed its name to Polski Ład, coalitioners signed a joint declaration. See how serious these people are, the PiS coalitioners. The former coalitionist has gone to the other side of the room. Deputy Prime Minister Gowin and Minister Ziobro signed first and then determined what it meant. It took them months to get there. It was May, I'll remind you, last year. On November 29, after many months of intra-governmental extortion, the Sejm approved tax changes. It was only when they adopted them that the rulers began to wonder what these changes would cause. In January 2022, when the changes came into force, they learned what they were causing. At this point, perhaps the coalitioners have gained clarity about what they signed in May, what they agreed to. Then everything went fast. 9 February - resignation of the Minister of Finance of Kościński, 11 February - resignation of the Deputy Minister of Finance. That might also explain why officials stay far behind. Then in February we had an amendment of the New Deal, the Polish Deal, so that people who unexpectedly lost on tax changes could settle on the old rules. Now we have several parallel systems. The government, by saving its reputation, panicfully announces the biggest tax cuts, eliminates what was a part of the Polish Order, i.e. the increase in health contributions, announces that everyone (the bell) will gain, taxes will be lower, budget revenues will be higher. This is something that economically would be a real perpetuum mobile. Who's gonna pay for all this? Of course, Poles. The payment is tax chaos, additional work, economic uncertainty in bankrupt single-person business, costs of switching companies to other legal forms, high inflation, high cost of access to capital. This is your work, Prime Minister, which today you are promoting at a conference in Poznań.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Bukowiec, who will present the position of the Agreement Group, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We wouldn't have this project today if you weren't immune to expert arguments last year. Let us remind you: you pushed a 700-page tax proposal that led to Poland today having one of the most complex tax systems in the OECD. You're immune to expert arguments, and when your projects end in failure, you're looking for guilt in official conspiracies. Minister! I'm really glad that you went to your senses and pulled out of this madness, but why did the cost of insistence on introducing the Polish Deal have to be borne by Poles? On the other hand, it is good that the Act takes into account the requests made by the Agreement for an increase in the tax-free amount and the second tax threshold. On the other hand, there is still a question which should not be missed by all of us, concerning the financial consequences for local governments. It was the local governments that were and are on the front line when it comes to helping refugees from beyond our eastern border. They're the ones that work where you can't do it. Self-government is the basis of democracy, and unfortunately the situation of local government units has been deteriorating regularly for 3 years and their influence is decreasing. It goes on, among other things. with zero PIT for young people, a reduction in participation in taxes or an imposition of commitments on local governments without providing additional resources. Minister! This topic was recently discussed at two local conventions in Sopot and in Mikołajki. Absolutely all local government officials have said that their financial situation is very bad and that they are increasingly incapacitated by central grant decisions. Therefore, we must also consider the participation of local authorities in VAT and increase their share of PIT. Today decisions are made about the future of local governments in Poland. If we allow their degradation, the fall, it will mean the end of democracy as we know it. This project does not define our dream tax system - the system should be simpler and more transparent - but it is a step in the right direction. Minister, next time listen more often to what experts say, you may avoid a future accident. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u232	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We're going to ask questions. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Excuse me, ma'am, I'd like to correct that, wouldn't you? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u233	Mr Suchoń specializes in misrepresentation of my statements not only here but also at committee meetings. He just said, among other things, that my statement shows that tax problems are due to the fact that Poles or citizens could not learn, teach this system. Where did those words come from, sir? Your Member isn't in the courtroom right now. At what point did those words come out? When I said that the Poles were unable to learn or teach the rules and that is why there are problems? At what point did I say that? My statement was exactly this: the scope, depth of the changes (The Bell) and the pace of the changes have highlighted the problems in the practical application of these provisions. That's it. That's it. [[That's exactly what I said.]] And that's your honesty in sayings that ex cathedra mr. He's giving it here. Not just here, but on the committee. That's what your common dishonesty is all about. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u234	No, there will be no more corrections. We're going to ask questions. 40 Members have joined the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska will be the first to speak. [[Voice from the room: She's already taken it.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Will the Member ask you something?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member will ask himself.]] He has as much right to ask as any of us. [[Voice from the Chamber: It is best to ask the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u235	Thank you, Marshal. My question will be indirectly related to the subject, but on this occasion I would like to ask about the issue of reliefs in the acquisition or renovation of historic property in a situation where they are purchased not by natural persons, but for example. Local governments. Would you be able to answer me, the Minister, the State who is present, whether such reliefs or similar are also used in situations which do not concern individuals? That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u236	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u237	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! So this graph shows how they've been getting 1% so far. tax-based public benefit organisations. They were doing very well. Moreover, the money they raised came from taxpayers, not from the government. They were doing very well until the announcement of the Polish Order. In 2021, public benefit organisations collected PLN 927 million from citizens. According to the simulation of the Ministry of Finance in 2023, 200 million PLN will be added to the accounts after the changes proposed by the government. [[The government dared.]] That's 20%. less money than taxpayers for a public benefit organisation. [[Voice from the Chamber: No, because the Member showed something.]] The government in this law proposes compensation, but these compensations are to be from the state budget. In this connection, I ask whether the individual subjects who run the subaccounts (the bell) will also receive compensation. Wouldn't it be easier to accept our amendment, which goes towards a 1.5 percent tax write-off and is a simple, fair and transparent solution? Will the government support this solution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am speaking about scandalous discrimination by the Polish disorder of single parents raising children. Minister, why don't you explain to me what the rational justification for this discrimination is? Let me remind you what it was like: first of all, you've eliminated the possibility of bringing children together with your parents, then you promised, when the environment was mobilized, then the Minister promised that he would restore equal clearing as it was before, and then you only restored half of it. Why all the discrimination? Please do not say that this amendment has been introduced by Members. If the government voted for her... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, so that's an amendment that the government takes full responsibility for. Explain why parents raising children alone in Poland are discriminated against by the Polish government. I'm gonna end up with this game of words used by this environment: not-nice-no, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will have a chance in his own time, plus possibly a few dozen seconds, to refer to the words of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start with a substantive question, Minister, because I have been approached by citizens, by families of many children on the possibility of applying the PIT-0 reduction, because children receive scholarships for good learning outcomes, which is glorious, and so far the rules may have been a problem to combine these scholarships with PIT-0. Therefore, my question is this: Will the student relief apply to the settlement of families under PIT-0, of course multi-child families, for the whole year 2022? I would very much like to make this very clear here as well. On the other hand, one sentence or two sentences refer to the highly respected Mrs Masłowska. Well, your fellow Member is well-known for defending a lost cause, if this is a party matter, always to the end, not looking very closely at the facts. Madam President, I have a request, however, to stand in the truth and to stand in the real assessment of the facts. The fault for this chaos is not the pace (the bell) of implementation, problems in understanding. The government you were defending at the time is to blame. This is your government. Your officials have led to this chaos, not people, not problems of some euphemistic euphemism. Please apologize to the citizens for this chaos and for the money that cost you those bad changes you've made. And then we can close this discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u242	Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! It is symptomatic that when Polish Load was introduced, it was advertising, there was promotion, they were full of benches. Today, the voids. Respect for Mrs Masłowska, who is the only... [[I'm on duty.]] ...as on-call today represents Law and Justice. And respect that the Minister has moved boldly forward on these several rows. But for the promotion of Polish Łódź, I will remind you, because we are talking about money, it went over PLN 15 million. Let's cut to the chase. Minister, a tax reduction will result in a reduced impact on the budgets of local governments. How do you want to compensate local governments for these losses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u244	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Michael Honestly. So, Mr Rafał Adamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government states in the explanatory memorandum that the Polish tax system is excessively complicated and difficult. Beautiful self-criticism. But the question should be asked: Who has been in charge for seven years? Now the questions are: Isn't it the government that introduced PIT, which, together with all its annexes, has 49 pages of the manuscript? Isn't it the government that proposed several alternative, divergent ways of settling income tax this year, which was supposed to be a panacea for the mess that you introduced into the Polish tax system? Question: "Why are you so late and why are you making changes again in the middle of the year and are you not afraid that there will be another stage of a mess in Polish disorder?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u246	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the sustainability, consistency and transparency of tax solutions are important for taxpayers and that the main objective is to improve, simplify and stabilise the tax system. That's not true. But will it? And here I want to ask you about the public benefit organisations that my colleague has already talked about, and which, as we know now, will have lower revenue of 1%. Many of these organizations thanks to collections are able to help sick children, people with disabilities in specialist treatment, buying very expensive medicines. Does the Ministry have any calculations if the proceeds to the organization's accounts are reduced? What will the compensatory mechanism consist of? Are there criteria under which this mechanism will be implemented? When reading the law, I do not have the impression of transparency in the transfer of funds to public benefit organisations, because it will be discretionary, subject to the decision of the Minister of Finance. Can it really be considered that this system will be fairer, better (the Bell), simpler and more stable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u248	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is one messenger of PiS in the room, for the rest, as it seems, do not dare to look Poles in the eye. For how can you look Poles in the eye when you have led the tax system to ridicule? You have led to such a system in which cabarets are difficult to replace, but you have replaced cabarets in the Polish disorder, because you have sent the Poles twice the information: Poles, love Polish Load, because it is the best since Jagiełła. I say again: do not replace Polish cabarets, do not write in the draft of this law that the Polish tax system is excessively complicated and burdensome for the citizen. Now you've just read it? Don't make Poles those who don't read your papers. You write that now we will increase the attractiveness of Poland. I'm surprised to hear that. Take care of this bill (the bell) as a relief for single parents, because it is a disgrace for a parent and a half of a child to be relieved, to deal with compensation for local governments, to deal with compensation for NGOs and not to write bullshit in this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll tell you this: It's disgusting what you do to people with disabilities and their carers. Once again, you steal from people with disabilities and their guardians. Thanks to the PiS Act it will be 200 million less with 1%, it is a Polish load typical for disabled people, because they will never ask for themselves. You are missing a very good solution, because everyone today knows that this law proposed by the Civic Coalition is very good, just increase the amount of 1% up to 1,5% tax. This option is so simple and has advantages. [[Applause]] It is based on taxpayers' decisions, it is independent of politicians, it translates into support for specific subjects. It is a very good future solution for public benefit organisations. These solutions are really simple, simple, clear, apolitical and will not build any controversy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Minister: For what a disabled family will go with a disabled child for a rehabilitation tournament when it costs 10,000 today.? I'm asking him what he's gonna buy orthopedic shoes for. I'm asking you to answer that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This morning, on my way here to the Sejm, in Warsaw, I listened to a conversation: You know, I suspended my office because I couldn't deal with this Polish Ład, but I heard that today they were going to fix something. I hope that you will fix this with the Seym in some way, at least so that the accounting offices understand it, because Poles will surely still have difficulties. 1% - the basis for building civil society. 15 million taxpayers. Why do we want to change their decisions? Why does the government want to make decisions for them? This is a very important instrument, more than PLN 900 million for the activities of organisations which complement the state, and in fact in many places replace you, because you cannot deal with specific social problems. The law and justice tabled an amendment here (the bell) and the Member said that this was an amendment on how this supplement was divided by the Ministry and taken over by the PiS. But he didn't tell me what it was. I would very much like to ask the Minister to tell the House what this amendment is supposed to be about to supplement 1% for a public benefit organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski will speak. We can't see. So, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. There isn't any either. But there is Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u255	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! If in 15 or 20 years someone will write a master's or doctoral thesis on the tax system in Poland, because such works will be created, then when it comes to 2022, he will seriously consider whether he has chosen a good subject. When she starts digging into middle class reliefs, she's probably gonna change the subject because she won't understand it, no one's gonna understand it in a couple of years. You are not convinced of why or what you wanted to achieve in this way. Today, you're trying to fix a problem that you've generated, but there's a basic question: is this problem really fixed? How many systems do you think we can account for this tax year? Will the tax authorities be able to explain to taxpayers the complexity of the few systems that apply? Will accountants be able to handle what you've done? And are we really, in the next half of the year, able to predict, each of us, what taxes are we going to pay for this year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz is now speaking. But he's not in the O.R. So, Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that a lie has short legs and a long nose Pinocchio, all adults and children know, and today it is especially felt by adults who raise children alone. Prime Minister Morawiecki, the government of PiS, Members and Members of PiS have deceived them twice. Unfortunately, your conservative ideology, your arrogance has recognised, Minister, that single parents and their children are not family. What did she owe you? An abandoned woman, Minister? What did the widow or widower owe you? What did single parents do to you who divorced your marriage for violent or alcoholic reasons? Minister Soboń, do you buy your children half a shoe, or do you buy half a jacket, or do you give half a meal? No. And I'll tell you in secret, tell the Prime Minister that single parents don't either. But they often work for two. So what went wrong? How do you explain this bad, harmful solution, dividing children into better and worse kinds, including those raised by single parents? Where is your parliamentary facilities today, Minister? The Sejm is in session, you are now introducing the third tax system (the bell) in this country. You're hurting the children of single parents. And the Messenger and PiS Members in the Seym Hall are... two? One, just one. Where are you? I wanted to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, that a mother plus a child is two people. That dad plus the baby is also two people. That a single parent plus a child is two people. Not one and a half, Minister, not one and a half. Two people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u258	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Kretkowska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This empty hall, these empty pews of the PiS are the best commentary on the insidious changes in the disgraceful bill on tax disorder, the biggest tax inertia in post-war history of Poland, or at least after 1989 for sure. I wanted to support and appeal to individual representatives of the PIS in the Parliamentary benches for support or adoption of the amendment proposed by the Left today concerning single parents. Those who were injured, who were then treated worse than families who had no children at all by a party that claims to be pro-family - but only claims - during long discussions after the first project voted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then Prime Minister Morawiecki promised these lonely parents the restoration of common taxation. He tricked these people, restored 1.5 taxes. The Left Club applied today to simply restore common taxation, and I hope you have the decency to vote on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u261	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The elimination of the mid-class relief is, in fact, an adverse change from the point of view of many taxpayers. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly argued that such changes are unacceptable and incompatible with the Constitution. But what are the consequences? This means that there will be taxpayers' claims who will be taxed for the second half of the year at 12% At the same time, they will want to benefit from the mid-class relief. In tax settlements, you'll see, there'll be expectations of a refund of overpaid tax, and the courts will settle disputes. I have no doubt as to how they will determine them. Incidentally, the same applies to the reduction amount, because it amounted to PLN 5100 (The Bell), and today it amounts to PLN 3,600. Are you aware of this and have you calculated the costs associated with these deficiencies contained in this legislative proposal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u262	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Mrs Karolina Pavliczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You'd like to say, didn't we say? I see you're in a very good mood... [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Of course. ...and the tax changes you've made have caused great chaos and exposed a complete misunderstanding of the rules of the tax system. This revolution introduced legislative monsters without real consultation and analysis of socio-economic impacts. I have a fundamental question: Are you going to finish your term of office - I hope that the last time you rule - you will make any more tax changes and bubbles that will strike our society again in an unlimited way? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u264	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Public finance entities under the applicable law are required to register all contracts with a value exceeding 500 PLN under the threat of punishment for exceeding the discipline of public finances. Very strict deadlines are also introduced. This is a gigantic burden on all public finance players who can't handle it, because it's gonna be such a lot of information that they're not just gonna bring anything to anyone, no data that's gonna come up with something... In addition, this is not feasible. 70,000. entities in the public finance sector. We therefore propose - and I ask the Minister to accept it - a very sensible amendment (the bell) which concerns an increase in the amount of the contract to be registered to 5 000. PLN and the introduction of this obligation from 1 January 2023, which will allow you to prepare for this giant operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u267	Thank you, Marshal. I have this general remark: PiS may want to build a church state or a religious state, it may introduce some intense ideology in its image, but everyone knows that when you rule a country, it is a few stable points, e.g. predictability of law, especially tax law. I cannot understand that it was possible to prepare for a year and adopt as bad tax law as in the Polish Lad. I have heard - I would like to confirm this because it would be an interesting phenomenon - that the whole program was prepared by PhD students, not by financial, public doctors, only by PhD students. If so, they have prepared the whole project, which was subsequently approved by the finance ministers and then by the political party that governs the country. I can't understand this level of dylanism. First of all, is it true that the doctoral bell prepared it? And second of all, tell me what the motive for doing this was. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u269	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Two things can be said about this bill: messy and dishonesty. The mess, because it is the third tax system this year and actually no Pole understands what taxes will pay. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Next.]] In addition, it is incompatible with the constitution, of course, because there are Poles who will lose on these changes. Some already know that, and others will painfully see it in the second half of this year. Why is that dishonesty? That's because you say you're lowering taxes, and you're actually raising taxes. This great tax reduction of yours is, in fact, a reduction from 17% to 21%. Congratulations. But it's also unfair because you think children raised by single parents are children of a worse kind. Finally, you take about 200 million within 1% of Poles. That also indicates your deep dishonesty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I can honestly say that I don't envy you because it's the fifth ministry and they always throw you on such difficult episodes, and that's, like I say, a thing that's unsolvable. But my question is about health contributions. First of all, we have to tell Poles: you raise taxes because, to be clear, you have introduced a new tax, which is a health premium of 9%. Which you can't count off from anything, you just increased by 7.75%. normal taxes. Today you say you're down 5%, but I want you as an engineer, Minister, to say that 7.75%. minus 5% That's plus 2,75%. That's how much you raise your taxes. [[Applause]] Secondly, please tell me: How much money has been paid today by this health contribution to the NFZ? What does the state of the financial resources in the National Health Fund look like in May? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u272	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u273	I wanted to ask the Minister how long ago he was at the game and how long the fans sang at this match Poles, nothing happened. For you have come to this episode, where the third shift, and you say: 'Polish, nothing happened.' You're supposed to be sorry, but I think it's quiet. In fact, all Poles need a loud apology. You've done as much tax shit as anybody has ever done. You weren't there, but you're short, and it's a third change, but it's a failure, a failure. Half the child will be a symbol of this change. Retrieving the possibility of deciding to allocate part of this 1% tax - it's about me, every taxpayer, not someone like you. But what happened? No (Bingle) Palace+ Both left and this is the second element (Applause) as the brand of this project, and with everything you have to spend extra money each time. I have one question: when will the money come from KPO? When will there be a new perspective and when will you take it seriously for Ziobra? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u274	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zdzisław Wolski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an attempt to treat the palliative unfortunate, puriozal on the scale of the Polish Load world, and especially tax solutions. Among the many problems that are, I wanted to ask the government about the local government. There's been voices like that before. The current income from the PiS for local government units is 48,59%. On the part of local government officials there were bottom-up attempts to force the government to increase this share, e.g. Up to 57%. It didn't happen with understanding. I remind you that it is the local authorities that carry out most of the services, bear significant expenses at the moment on the unfortunate Ukrainians and will bear. Local governments will invest, for example, in order to have money for their own contributions to the National Reconstruction Plan, if the government (The Bell) kindly accepts this money from the European Union and if it does not accept it, it will already be drama if the local authorities fail. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u276	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u277	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to lower your taxes? All right, I'm all for it, but which state expenses are you gonna give up? 500+? From caring capital? Anti-inflationary shields? A deposit for your own contribution? 13th, 14th retirement? Why don't you let go of the gigantoma like the one at the CPK? Why don't you stop funding the church? Will we stop arming ourselves? Will we expel refugees from Ukraine from Poland? And if you are not going to give up anything, admit that tax reduction while increasing expenditure is a lack of responsibility for the state's public finances. Let us be honest: Jarosław Kaczyński does not understand how the state works. The creation of non-budget funds also shows that you do not understand finance. What I don't understand is I'm gonna close my eyes and pretend it's not there. But the cesspool is coming from all sides. It's inflation, it's expensive, it's record government debt. Now you are boasting of the reduced (Bingle) tribute, but together these and previous changes will reduce revenue to the budget by PLN 30 billion. This is a populist tax reduction, because we're all actually going to pay a lot more for it. Do you really want 1 kg of cherries to cost 2,000 in a year? Evil? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Sterczewski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u279	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill you're trying to fix is what you've ruined. You are proposing positive changes, e.g. Tax reduction for less earners or return of joint settlement with the child in the case of single parents. Okay, but you wouldn't have to do that if you'd listened to what we've been telling you for months. So-called. Polish Load spoils the nerves of Poles and Poles who are lost in the thicket of changing regulations. You led to this chaos during the pandemic, rising inflation and war across the eastern border. And We warned you. We have identified concrete solutions that need to be improved, including those that we are dealing with today, but you know everything better. That shoe of yours lost you. Okay, maybe it's better late than later, and the smart minister after the damage, but that's what this parliament is about, so we can talk to each other and find the best solutions together. Let this bill be a lesson to you not to reject good ideas, even when it is presented by your favorite opposition, because (The Bell) through your donkey stubbornness Poles and Poles lost a few months, and as we know, time is money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Where are your colleagues who voted for the Polish Lad? I see one messenger. Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, one representative of the United Rights is sitting in the Chamber during the debate on such an important law. Minister! You have to have the nerve to call a third tax change in one financial year a deal. It's not order, it's disorder, it's gigantic legislative inflation. Under the coat of favourable tax changes, where de facto the increase is a reduction, you are introducing a reduction of influence for local governments, for NGOs. But worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, you do not give the opportunity to settle things together when it comes to single parents. You guys are so pro-family. Why don't you give it a chance? But worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs, citizens do not have the option to change the form of taxation in a given financial year due to these changes. No, you say you can change this form in 2022 in 2023. This is ridiculous. That is why the Civic Coalition is making an amendment. And we ask you, Minister, to wake up from this American dream, which is a nightmare for citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u282	Thank you very much. Ms Joann Frydrych will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u283	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, By introducing Polish Load at the beginning of this year, you introduced a tax disorganization, and the guilty, instead of in the government, you searched among accountants and staff. Did you apologize to them for these disgraceful accusations? Because it is because of your inability that people receive lower wages. Today you realized that Polish Load is a tax chaos founded on Poles and the reason for the crazy price. Are you aware that during the tax year there is no way to eliminate the mid-class relief? This is a relief for taxpayers, taking it away during the tax year is contrary to the constitutional principles of the tax system. For example, a person earning 8,000. gross zloty loses 108 zlotys a month. This clearly shows that taking this relief is detrimental to the taxpayer. [[Applause]] And is the concept of vacathio legis, in particular with regard to tax regulations, completely alien to you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it has become a practice for you to introduce regulations as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u284	Thank you. Mr Mark Owl will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the turn of September and October, this room in this part was full. You raced in order to beat this dull propaganda that 18 million Poles and Poles will benefit from the Polish Łada, that the local governments will benefit from it, that it will be beautiful and prosperous at all. What's the effect, we all know. The first days of January were enough for Poles and Poles to realize that their payouts are several hundred PLN smaller. That's the effect and the work you've done. That is why I am not surprised that there is no one in this room except Mrs Masłowska. There's no one, you don't have the guts, you're just cowards. [[Applause]] Today, we're eliminating what you've destroyed. But by the way, I have to say that you are still stealing from Poles and Poles, only in a slightly different way. Minister, do you know how much money the Ministry of Finance has transferred to local governments? The statutory guarantee is 50% (The bell), in the first two months the state budget received PLN 15 billion and local governments - PLN 9 billion. Instead of 50 over 50, it's 60 over 40. You keep stealing as much as you can. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Our cities are robbing and robbing villages.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u286	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u287	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Polish Load, called by specialists, by experts of the Polish embankment, is the largest legal bubble in the times of the PiS government. Ladies and gentlemen, a pandemic in the world, in Poland, huge prices, PiS - expensive, and PiS is introducing a revolution in tax matters. Few of this, for this revolution, spend 15 million PLN to promote this bubble. Today it turns out that a lie has short legs. So what if the Minister and the Deputy Minister are expelled? On all this Poles suffered, Polish entrepreneurs suffered, all those who saw the spectrum of lack of transparency, which will continue to happen. The fact that today we have such a great price (the bell), such great inflation, is also your merit, because you have introduced Polish disorder or Polish mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u289	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The sad view during today's debate, the empty benches of the right hand. After all, Polish Load, actually a disorder, is your flagship project, on which promotion you spent tens of millions of zlotys. Every member of the PiS who enters this podium should boast about how wonderful it is, how you have healed Polish taxes and Polish taxpayers. But to be specific. Is the government aware that by limiting the right to joint clearing of single parents and children, it affects financially one of the most deprived groups of society? The single parents lost most of their lives on the Polish Lad, and it was not only financially. You hit their hopes and motivation. You're supposed to be so pro-family, but when you're running out of money in the budget, you're reaching for the poorest wallets. Minister, please fix this mistake, this terrible mistake. And, of course, as former self-government officer, city councilman Olsztyna, I ask you: Why is the government going to control local government manually? Why do you use a centralized and addictive mechanism (Dawn) to the decisions of the authorities in Warsaw in the small Polish homelands, municipalities and powiats? Do you really think that officials in Warsaw know better what people need? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Truskolaski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Load - the most important PiS programme, which was supposed to be a breakthrough, a breakthrough for 20 million taxpayers, turned out to be one big legal bubble. In fact, today all taxpayers pay for Polish Loads and for these unprepared regulations. They learned this at the beginning of the year, among others. Teachers who got lower salaries. As the opposition we have said from the beginning that the Polish Load is poorly prepared, that it will be a legal bubble on which Poles will lose, and that this legal bubble must be withdrawn as soon as possible. It's a good thing you guys are pulling out of those bad rules today. Minister, I have a specific question and I ask you to answer in writing: How much money has gone to promote the Polish Government, but not only from the Ministry of Finance, not only (the bell) from other ministries, but also from BGK and various subordinate agencies, from the Treasury companies? I ask for complete information on how much state budget, how many companies of the Treasury, how many other government agencies have spent on the promotion of the Polish Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u292	Thank you. The floor will be taken by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister isn't here. We ask questions, we ask important questions, and the Minister isn't here. As we spoke, the Minister was sitting there, in the back, discussing with his colleagues. I hope, Mr. Directors, that you will take notes because the questions are quite important. The first question concerns constitutionality. I remember, we all remember, your assurances, those jury-filled people who said that Poles would have more money because they would pay lower taxes, everyone would make money. So what? Turns out it's the other way around. The least earning teachers got a lower salary in January. It's a mess. Now you're saying everything's okay, and it looks like uniformed services are gonna make less money. That's two questions. First of all, if it turns out that way, this bill will be unconstitutional. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And secondly, in terms of the fact that there's a war outside the eastern border, Minister, I wouldn't smile... [[He laughs like a fool to the cheese all the time.]] ...only he really thought about how to make by July 1st so that uniformed services wouldn't make any less money after July 1st. This is very important. I hope you heard my questions when I was acting on behalf of the club, and you're gonna answer them all, and above all, how it is that for the PiS how a child is raised by two parents, it's tax-free, and like one parent, it's only tax-free half. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Płępek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Load stands a disorder, you can say with all responsibility at the beginning. We all remember the words of the 2017 Morawiecki Prime Minister, who spoke about single mothers, that they were silent heroes. And so what if what else did the government say and what else did it do, and despite the promises, it decided to make tax arrangements discriminatory for the underprivileged families? What about the possibility of restoring joint clearing for single parents taking care of the changeling? In the view of the interested parties themselves, it would be appropriate for these parents to be given the opportunity to settle on a equal basis to what they receive from single parents. What are some of the plans of the government in the tax system that will be in favour of single parents (the bell) and will not put them in a worse situation than full families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u296	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I look at the Minister and the people accompanying the Minister and the knowledge really very optimistic. A lot of smiles, a lot of joy. [[Joy.]] I think laughter is health, so it's really worth being healthy. However, I would very much ask you gentlemen to share these reasons of joy. I don't know if you know we're celebrating tax advisors' day today. I'm talking to tax advisors, and I know that they certainly need wishes today, and for weeks and months they've been suffering from headaches, uncertainty and stress. Unfortunately, the reason for such joy in connection with the contested bill does not have local governments either, because they absolutely do not agree with the fundamental mathematical actions as they are supposed to have enough money (the bell) at the level as it has been so far. But I keep you to one thing, there is absolutely no reason for joy, for such optimism that today you really see in your benches when it comes to beneficiaries of the foundation's subaccount, because these are people and children who often fight for their health, fighting for their lives. Here's a specific question. Will the amount of compensation awarded be allocated to the sub-accounts of the Foundation's members? Will the foundations be able to decide for themselves? And will the name of the tax office from which 1% comes be mentioned on the subaccounts And not how has this information been hidden in recent years? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you can approach this in such a way that there was chaos at first, and then it was good, but I can still see, Minister, this chaos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see how PiS is approaching the Polish Deal at the moment. I think this painting should really be seen by all Poles. There's no one. One Member of the PiS is now admitting to this great Polish shaft. This is absolutely outrageous, but this is also clear evidence. We remember last year's vacation. Departures, promotions, millions spent on billboards, Minister, and all you had to do was read and listen to the opposition. We made it clear that this is a giant legal bullshit. I wanted to ask you about local governments because it's a key thing. Another tax change is the further financial weakening of local governments in terms of their own income. Will there really be mechanisms that will help local governments to have their own income? Because what you're proposing when it comes to strategic investment, what you're saying, driving around the country, that so much money stays in the local government, that's not true. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Suddenly it turns out that these investments are not made in 95% of central financing, only local governments have to add much more of their own money. And there's less and less of them in the register. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The actions of the PiS government are based on powerpoints and promises. They rely on them to create a new problem and worry, because then they'll have something to solve. The new disorder introduced by the PiS has just created such areas. He's brought the problems you're dealing with right now. Today's debate concerns inter alia. tax write-off of 1% and discrimination against single parents. I can hear the compensation and I'm shaking. So you want to decide for people again, and they pay taxes. To whom to give 1% Or Krzysi or one or another NGO? I'm asking and I'm expecting a written reply. What are the criteria? When will they be announced? What conditions will be met by those who will apply for compensation? Will NGOs be treated equally, those that are based in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, and those which are located in Warsaw, Łódź or Poznań? Will it decide the size of the city? In competitions you often do so that the size of the city decides about funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have 200 million booked? And where is that money reserved for compensation? I'm gonna ask you one more question because I had questions for the Members' Office. In 2021, many copies made by taxpayers within the deadline were sent to organisations with delay. What was the reason for the delay? And have interest for delays also been paid to organisations? Because it's NGOs that do a lot. They raise money for the treatment of children, for the treatment of rare diseases, for expensive treatment, for therapy, for surgery, for treatments. As a government, you don't want to bring all this stuff into the benefit refund. It's the NGO that's doing this job for you. They're treating these sick kids. Why do you still love these kids less? Why? Why do you not also love children who are raised by single parents? Minister, these children are ours too. These are our Polish children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Don't take what I say personally. I'm talking to your entire formation. Minister, in kindergarten, if something little Matthew, Jarek or Antoś breaks, you say this: come here, Matthew, Jarek and Antosiu, we'll fix it. But that's not how it works in an adult life. If something goes wrong with a grown man named Jarosław, an adult named Antoni and an adult named Mateusz, they kick them out of a decent company and get new professionals to clean up after them. [[Applause]] It's all in general. You broke the tax system, the iobriists broke the judicial system in this country. I hope people throw you out. And now in detail. Minister, in January the taxpayer chose the form of taxation. He chose, for example. A lump sum, he chose on the basis of important premises for him. One such indication was e.g. that the linear tax is 17%. And in those five months, he bought himself a car in credit instead of a lease. He didn't take invoices because he's crying. And now, after five months, you're offering him a new one, because you have 12%. linear tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's he gonna choose if he doesn't even have invoices anymore? You're cheating people. I hope they don't forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u305	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When Poles hear the term Polish Load, almost everyone says it's a scandal, a failure and a failure. When asked by single parents, they use even stronger words and expressions such as fraud and scams. These parents, Minister, aren't worse. They're not worse people, and they're not worse families. Why, Minister, isn't there a deputy minister that you promised to contact a group of single parents to return to the common tax settlement with the child? You're just cheating again and lying to these people. Minister! It is always the case that, like socialists who have a mouthful of words about equality and social solidarity, they are being tampered with in the tax system, higher contributions, tributes, excise duties and taxes come out, and at the end comes the confused tax system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the end, Minister, there is always no equality. In the end, you'll always get paid by the poorest. So much for equality. Mr. Marshal! Besides, I believe that the Ostrołęka plant has to be counted and accounted for and that the guilty must be punished. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u306	Mr Arthur Dziambor, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! New New Deal, that's patch patch patching. One thing that bothers me about all this is that you had time to correct all the mistakes that you made back then, telling us how wonderful it would be. And I still hear you haven't settled some issues, including. related to these single parents who raise their children. It's a shame. On the OECD list last year Poland took 36. place in 37 countries. Only Italy has a more complicated tax system than Poland. Minister! What do you think? After what you're putting in here now, and after what we're about to vote on, and from July 1st, it's gonna be the 37th place or maybe we're gonna throw it off the scale, because just those who do this ranking, they're gonna say that no, what Poland is doing is completely out of order? Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest problem is not that it is not even funny, but that it is a paradise for tax advisors (The Bell), and an absolute hell for accountants and of course for Poles who will not feel these great changes in the way the government announces. Besides, the twenty-million zlotys for the leaflets that were issued - Mr Soboń still has an interpellation from me, to which he has to answer, about the content of these wonderful flyers - this is also a question to settle. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, these changes that are... They still say they're gonna lower taxes. Of course they're gonna lower compared to the increases they've made. All this results from the fact that in their benches there are no people who are business people, entrepreneurial people, people who have any idea of how to do it. They're all the theorists. It's so sad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u308	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have one request: don't ever say again under such circumstances that you're lowering taxes. Because first you have increased these taxes, you have introduced protection for the middle class, which has proved ineffective in practice, now you are removing and reducing taxes, but the summa summarum of the state budget for these two operations is still ahead. And you know it. And if the budget is ahead, it means that the citizens are backwards, which means they have paid for the whole business, and not profited from it. By the way, you robbed the local governments, robbed the parents of single parents who are only partially re-accounted for, and now you're still trying to rob NGOs, because the increase in the amount of free money has made 1% tax, so the main income of NGOs, affects much less. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you want to restore the mechanism of proportional complementing this 1% You're just trying again to influence and discretionaryly admit to whom you're gonna supplement your income loss and who you're not? This is an unacceptable situation, Minister. We tabled an amendment in this regard at first reading, there is our minority request. I ask you to restore the proportionality mechanism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u310	Thank you very much. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Artur Soboń, will answer the questions asked earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u311	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I want to start by saying that I would like to thank you for the fact that we are working, although it may seem to be different, in line with this proposal, and that there was not a single vote against the committee meeting yesterday. I hope it stays that way and we will work on this project in harmony, because it is a good project. [[It's not.]] I really do, Mr... I address Mr Urbaniak. If you understood as much as Kochanowski at the committee meeting yesterday, it is not good, because it is not a frashka, it is a V song, a song about the devastation of Podolaż, and it really speaks about the need to build patriotic Poland. [[Who said it was?]] You, sir. [[No, no.]] And I really encourage you to read this Kochanowski song and take it to heart. And I encourage Mr Bosak to read the Gospel of St. Matthew, the parables of the workers in the vineyard. The last one is always... [[Minister, you should have sat here from the beginning and listened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u312	We would very much like to ask the Minister to give an answer. [[He's entering the dialogue.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I've really listened from the very beginning. You've really wasted a lot of time saying how many Members are on this side of the room, and alone in eight out of ten... [[Your parliamentary back office, which is missing.]] ...after asking a question that wasn't usually a question, you left the room, so let's not really bring this discussion to that level. [[Voice from the room: But we are.]] [[No members of the PiS. Zero.]] As for the substantive issues that have been addressed here, because there have been several, I want to discuss them all one at a time. First of all, constitutionality. The changes we are proposing are changes that are either in favour of or neutral for all PIT taxpayers and therefore fulfil all the features of the Constitution. Secondly, in terms of salary, there is no doubt that the officers will be a group that will benefit and in relation to the Polish Government, and in relation to 2021 in an excellent part, the majority. This will also, of course, be the case for employees on employment contracts because of the method of calculating contributions. This advantage with e.g. A ten-thousand salary per employee for the contract of employment is PLN 4744 in the case of an officer, PLN 2520 this is an advantage for the employee for the contract of employment. When it comes to single parents, because this is a thread that has often appeared, we are restoring single parents and children together, as promised. [[You're not bringing it back. What kind of dialogue is this, Minister?]] Moreover, by restoring the joint settlement of single parents with children, we increase the amount of the benefit not only due to the higher threshold and the lower tax scale, but above all due to the higher free amount, because the free amount is 30,000. plus 15,000, which is at least three times more than 8,000. plus 8 000, i.e. the maximum possible amount in 2021. No one else benefits from this privilege, which is exclusively for single parents with children. The discussion that took place during the public consultation, where we listened to all parties, also concerned such preferences for families, but this preference remained solely for the lonely, and this preference gives an average benefit of PLN 1525 per year for those single parents. As a result, more than 0.5 million single parents will pay less tax. I understand, of course, that with regard to the original project that we have proposed, there is a difference between a child with a disability, when it is an amount of 30,000. the amount free, and the other children, when it is half of this amount, while, to be clear - here I am addressing Mrs Wielichowska, because she mentioned widowers - in this matter we have two and a half times, because the family pension in this project is treated as a separate income, with a separate amount free. So if we're talking about widowers, we're talking about two and a half times the amount of free money. The Palace+ has been eliminated in terms of tax optimization, and the possibility of counting part of the expenditures on monuments that are in the heritage register is strictly subject to maintenance control, because what is in the permit must then be received from the conservator. As far as public benefit organisations are concerned, there was also a discussion here between large organisations that would really want these measures to... I would also like to tell everyone who was worried about whether we would secure the resources that would be a loss for these organisations: these funds would be in the budget and will cover the difference that results from the tax reduction in its entirety. This discussion has led us to have a mechanism that will be enshrined in the regulation. The Regulation will set out criteria and these measures will be allocated in part proportional to the proposals made by taxpayers and will be distributed in part in competition with the Council for Public Use, i.e. the identification of NGOs themselves, because in this Council the majority are representatives of the organisation, so as not to exclude these small organisations as well. Why 1.5% Sounds good, and it's not a solution? Because 1.5% from zero when it comes to PIT, that's exactly 1% from zero. In this sense, that obviously doesn't solve this issue. This solution we have proposed is a better solution. There are no three tax systems in a year. During the entire tax year, from 1 January to 31 December, there will be a tax system which we will now introduce - in advance from 1 July - in an annual statement from 1 January to 31 December. As far as local governments are concerned, because it also appeared here, I would like to inform you that when it comes to the influence on the accounts of local governments with PIT, I carry out in January and March 2022, PLN 13.5 billion, i.e. PLN 573 million more than in 2021. Why? Because they are independent of these tax changes, because in equal monthly instalments they affect local government accounts, in accordance with the stabilizing rule, i.e. the so-called. The development subsidy that we have proposed and the importance of which is further enhanced by this amendment, for which I thank the Members of Law and Justice, so that local governments do not lose out on these changes, all the more so that, from a proportion point of view, local governments versus the budget is 1/16 - this is the share of the impact on the budget of local governments of these changes that we are making. Of course I know it's tax advisor day, yesterday I had the pleasure of attending the celebrations in the National Chamber of Tax Advisers. I would like to say that this project, which we have here, was created not only with the participation of tax advisors, with the participation of entrepreneurs, but also with the participation of accountants, accounting offices. This is the result of working together, this is not just my project. This is a project that has changed considerably as a result of the public consultation. The procedure is standard. At the previous meeting, we had the first reading of the project in the plenary room, as is done in the case of tax laws. At the moment, at the next meeting, we have a second reading of the project, so really the words about any haste are simply false. I confirm Mr Suchon's question: yes, of course, the more that we increase this income for children, for older children, as well as for adult children. It was actually very low. As regards Mrs Masłowska's question, of course, this concerns only PIT in this case, so this only applies to individuals. Some of these questions, of course, have been repeated here, but I will try to find one that I have not answered here. Mr Tomaszewski drew attention to an important point. I get the feeling that in Warsaw, on this train, people understand more than in this room, or at least there's a lot more goodwill there. I understand, of course, that this debate is governed by its laws... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Minister, this is not a competition for the best humor. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: ...but it goes a little bit next to the project. But I'd have the biggest wish... In this way, you insult the Members sitting in this Chamber. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I have such an appeal, Mr Marshal, to those who have taken the floor to read the project, because it would be much easier to talk then as if Members knew the project that we have presented and which we are working on together. [[Yes? Do the PiS guys know? They didn't even open it. Who are you telling?]] Mrs Pavlichak asked if we had an idea for further changes. These changes will not apply to PIT, here we are not planning any changes. Mr Dyduch maliciously said something about church ideology. If I were to use this comparison, I could say that it is very stable, contrary to what you have suggested here. Mr Wieczorek, like many people in this debate, often tries to calculate this tax reduction to represent it as an increase, of course, taking into account the possibility of a partial deduction of the health contribution on tax, which was possible in 2021. Well, mathematically, you have agreed, but you have forgotten to add another parameter, which is almost four times, and sometimes more than four times, the higher amount of free tax that we are counting on. Mr Piątkowski, if I remember correctly, said that PLN 3,600 is a lower amount, reducing the amount resulting from the higher rate, from the rate of 17%. Let's really get down to the ground and figure out where it's coming from. This is a greater advantage for the taxpayer, because the taxpayer has his tax multiplied by the rate and just this tax He pays less. At a lower rate, this reduction amount, i.e. the amount free, will be no PLN 425, only PLN 300. And this is a solution that is of course beneficial to the taxpayer. I am not closing myself here - I am addressing Mr Sterczewski, who had such a concerted statement - for good ideas. If these ideas are good, we use them, no matter who's the author of them. I do not understand what Mrs Wcislo has said, nor do all the countries that have spoken about the possibility of changing the form of taxation for entrepreneurs. This is really a huge advantage for some of them, for those who want to benefit from a 30% reduction in PIT. As far as the annual statement is concerned, this is the most advantageous and confusing issue for entrepreneurs. After all, it is clear that the change in the books is a mess for entrepreneurs, although at the same time it is the best solution for entrepreneurs, but there is also a solution that allows for a change in the middle of the year: the transition from a lump sum on a scale for those who want to benefit from it from 1 July and do not want to take advantage of the possibilities that give annual accounts. [[How much to the NFZ, Minister?]] I would like to draw Mrs Navel's attention to the fact that alternate care is not the care of single parents. They're not single parents in the right sense. These are the parents who take care of the baby alternately, but together. And if we were to treat this preference for single parents in this way, it would indeed be extremely unfair to families. I do not think that you are suggesting this here. Finally, Mr Dziambor pointed out that he was always right here and that these taxes are not as low as he expected. This is not the only advantage of taxes, Mr President. The advantage of taxes from our point of view - and I say it quite openly - is also their progression and this system is more progressive than in 2021. Moreover, this limit is shifted much higher and we pay higher taxes than higher wages, and we pay lower taxes than lower wages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is also part of the tax philosophy that we as a government, as the Law and Justice we propose to the state today. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: How much did the NFZ get?]] [[How do you count your children? Half or half?]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Member, I can't... If someone, anyone today is not a single parent, then they do not benefit from the preference for joint settlement with children. Please don't really say that because you had emotional statements about it, it was very rude. I tried to speak substantively, so let me repeat: this is a preference. Only for single parents. I, like others who are not single parents, do not settle with children. Thank you very much. I would now like the floor of the rapporteur of the committee to be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! On the one hand, it is positive that these laws have triggered such a discussion. As usual, tax laws are of interest to all, they are interested in Members. [[You heard something different than us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u314	Member of the Commission, students of one of the schools are listening. [[But let them know the truth that you heard something different from us.]] But they would also like to make the impression that there is a cultural discussion in this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u315	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Marshal. Not in matters of substance, because here are the facts, there are data. If someone has the strength, the time, they can read it and find out everything. The Minister spoke in quite detail about matters of substance. In our speeches, we presented the facts. Yes, I will always defend the truth. Don't accuse me of blindly defending party interests. [[You're gonna have to start.]] I'm not a member of any party. I'm not defending party interests, but I'm defending the truth from this platform. I wanted to refer to the atmosphere, the form that you have presented here, and not for the first time, in your speeches, in your questions. [[But that wasn't the question. No one's asking you for an evaluation. There's no such thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u316	I am very sorry, Commissioner, but there is a procedure in which the rapporteur of the committee... [[He answers the questions.]] ...can speak and refer to speeches. And that is what the Member does. [[Shall we review our speeches, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u317	Here, ladies and gentlemen, about the way you speak and the whole atmosphere that you are calling, and not for the first time... Because today's fashion has come for quotes, especially from Kochanowski, I will also quote to you, mainly to the Members of the opposition: There are different nations, but rather different nations have different spirits. Some can be conquered and resettled in order to seize their lands, and the world will not raise the shouting - these are small nations, tribes. Others can be made a small slave effort and will be willing to lick the master's hand - those nations of a vile soul, from the cradle of unthinkable self-determination, in the great areas of Asia will melt without a trace. Finally, the third cannot be done either, at least not immediately - they are Poles. They cannot be annexed to their country because it would be necessary to share with Prussia, Austria, Turkey and God knows with whom else; it imposes a European balance of strength. Secondly, this cannot be done at hand, for they are excellent soldiers, and the whole nation, when openly threatened, resembles an angry wolf in a chase. It would cost too much, so they should be demoralized to the core. We need to break this nation apart from the inside, kill its morality. If he cannot be made a corpse, he should at least be made to be sick, burning and rotting in his bed. He needs to be infected, he needs hereditary leprosy... [[What are you saying?]] ...everlasting anarchy and discord. You have to teach your brother how to report to your brother and your son how to jump down your father's throat. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u318	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, isn't what you're hearing here sound very familiar to you? Doesn't that sound familiar? Mr. Marshal, one sentence. When someone wants to fight us, divide us, teach each other to inform each other, let us remember who controls him, where he has his rulers. This awareness will decide whether or not to be in the next decades. It's all those with one purpose... [[You're gone.]] ...as soon as possible to come to power, nothing more, no national interest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u320	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Prints 2182 and 2226). I ask Mr Adam Gawada to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, print No. 2182. The Sejm at its 53rd meeting on 28 April 2022, as provided for in Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for its consideration. The draft law amending the law on value added tax provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on value added tax for goods and services aimed at implementing Council Directive (EU) 2019/2235 of 16 December 2019 amending the Directive on the common system of value added tax and Directive 2008/118 on general rules on excise duty for defence activities within the Union. The directive, which I mention at the beginning, is to be implemented in the national legal order by 30 June 2022. It should be noted here that this draft law does not implement the article. Point 1 (3) and Article 1. 2 of the Amending Directive - not to go into detail at the moment - into the value added tax system, hereinafter referred to as the VAT Directive, and the excise duty law. To a wider extent, this is described in the explanatory memorandum of this draft law. As far as the implementation of the directive I am talking about is concerned, Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) c The VAT Directive provides, under certain conditions, for exemption from value added tax for goods supplied and services provided to the armed forces of each State party to the North Atlantic Treaty and for goods imported by those forces when they participate in joint defence activities outside their own State. Such exemptions so far have not included actions carried out by the armed forces of a Member State taking part in EU projects under the Common Security and Defence Policy. In its Joint Communication of 28 March 2018 on the Action Plan for Military Mobility, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Commission recognised the overall need to harmonise VAT applicable to defence activities within the European Union. The aim of the Directive is therefore to harmonise VAT taxation on defence activities within the European Union and NATO. The amendments that are modelled on the existing VAT rules include: firstly, the exemption from VAT for the supply of goods and services in the European Union intended for the use of the armed forces of a Member State or the accompanying civilian staff or for the supply of their messes or canteens; secondly, the exemption from VAT for the importation of goods into Member States by the armed forces of other Member States for the use of those forces or the accompanying civilian personnel or for the supply of their messes or canteens; thirdly, the recognition as an intra-Community acquisition of goods by the armed forces of a Member State participating in defence operations carried out in the framework of the Union's CSDP activities for the use of those forces or their accompanying civil servants. During the committee's work, three amendments were tabled, which were welcomed by the committee. The Public Finance Commission after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 10 May this year. requests its adoption, the adoption of a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u322	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice expresses a positive opinion on the Government bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, contained in print No 2182. The report is currently in print 2226. The rapporteur just said what is the essence of this project. He also mentioned that at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, three amendments were tabled during the examination of the project, which were accepted. Of course, Law and Justice also vote in favour of these amendments. Taking advantage of the fact that I can speak, I would like to draw attention briefly to what these amendments relate to. This could be an important issue for stakeholders. The aim of the amendment, which was to amend the Act on the control of certain investments and the Act on interest subsidies on bank loans granted to traders affected by the effects of COVID-19, is to protect Polish companies considered important for order and security or public health against hostile acquisitions. It was assumed that the provisions, which were to apply for 24 months from the date of entry into force, i.e. only until 25 July 2022, would apply for 60 months. The period of validity of these provisions has been extended. This is due to the fact that the pandemic problems have lasted longer than initially assumed and that there have also been additional circumstances in recent months which may be accompanied by distortions on the domestic and Union markets for competition. This includes, for example, sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus in connection with the war in Ukraine, which can result not only in rising fuel prices, energy prices, production costs for entrepreneurs, but also in increasing the prices of raw materials and semi-finished products used by entrepreneurs. Costs for subcontractors may also increase. All of this can cause some companies to face some liquidity problems. This may encourage the acquisition of these companies by other investors. In order to safeguard this, we accept an amendment which extends the duration of these provisions. This means that certain entities wishing to acquire or gain significant participation or dominance in another company will still be required to notify the President of the OOKiK. In the event of infringements by these entities, penalties may continue to be imposed on them. That's one of those corrections. The second amendment concerns the question of extending the time limits for reduced excise duties. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the project provides for an extension of the temporary reduction in excise duty rates on electricity, certain motor fuels, diesel, biocomponents constituting self-fuels, motor gasoline and LPG and exemption from excise duty on electricity used by households and temporary exemption from retail tax on fuels. The proposed amendments to the excise duty law will prolong the validity of the reduced rates of excise duty on the abovementioned. energy products up to a minimum excise duty, including fuel and emission charges, in such a way that they will remain at their current level by 31 July 2022. So we have good news. The reduction of excise duty on motor fuels, fuel oil and energy and exemption from excise duty on electricity for households will be the sole cost of the state budget estimated at PLN 541 million including VAT. The cost of extending the tax exemption for the State budget for retail tax is estimated at about PLN 55 million. This is the second amendment. We still have a third amendment, which we also accept. It concerns exports of defence equipment and related provisions in view of the situation in Ukraine. The simplified procedures (The Bell) which were introduced in relation to exports of protective equipment to Ukraine were introduced for a period of 2 months - from 17 March to 17 May. With the provisions of this Law and the amendment which Law and Justice also supports, they will remain in force until the end of 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u324	Thank you very much. Dear Members, (Applause) A group of students from the 2nd High School is listening to us. Janusz Korczak in Wieluń, who came here at the invitation of Mr Paul Rychlik. Let's give them a warm welcome. [[Applause]] I would ask you to speak with Krystyna Skowronska, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u325	Dear Marshal, I, too, wanted to join in greeting young people who are sitting in a gallery where diplomats usually sit. Make important decisions, change Poland, be solid and honest, so as not to violate, as on this speaker... Today you're part of it. You have your own experience. I used to sit there as a young person. I never thought I'd be here. May I? Yes, you can. [[Applause]] I'm getting to the point. I have comments on the rapporteurs. I would like to say to both Mrs Masłowska and the rapporteur for this project that the rapporteur cannot present in his report other than the conclusions set out in the report or answer questions to the rapporteur who came during the... Mrs Butterwska She has repeatedly gone beyond what Article empowers her to do. 83 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm as rapporteur. [[Specifically, Member.]] And I leave my last speech to everyone's opinion. Now, a dedication to the honourable minister. Minister, I can give you my copy of the text we've been working on. It's about the Personal Income Tax Act. You know perfectly well how many times I've asked you, I think you've had enough of me. I have all the comments here. I didn't see everyone working so actively. So that the argument that we do not read or speak is not true. The rapporteur did not quite say so. I mean, he told the truth about what the amendments are and what the opinion is, but he was economical in words - and I'll get right to it - because he didn't say that the amendments to this project were tabled in irregular mode. The first reading was omitted. The state reported it at such a stage that the Legislative Bureau indicated that you had filed it too late, and that it didn't have time... Well, we got hit, too. The committee started, the amendments from you, the gap to consult on these amendments. We therefore say that these amendments have been tabled in a non-regulatory manner. And now ad vocem. The proposal itself introduces a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the same treatment, i.e. not to collect VAT, inter alia. from equipment imported to the needs of the units that will be stationed here under the Alliance or in connection with the supply of canteens. We agree with this, it did not raise controversy, except for one request, that this project should be aimed at the National Defence Committee as well. The Sejm decided that the finance committee was working on these amendments. I am talking about a non-regulatory procedure that is incompatible with the Constitution, which raises serious constitutional reservations. If this were to be the case, the lege artis, honestly, then the Constitutional Tribunal could say that they were declared not in accordance with the procedure. Now, let's get to the point. You proposed - because these are government proposals - that for 2 months the excise duty should not be paid, among others. For gas and gas. It's only two months, because this relief ends at the end of May, and inflation is rising. It's over 12%. , reaches 15% Some people predict that there's more to it than that. So it's only two months. Unanswered was the question of how much you would spend on billboards or notes at the tax register, where you would write that it is without excise duty - that is, extra money for advertising. You are talking about the fact that five years will extend the powers of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in the field of anti-monopoly control of the concentration of entrepreneurs. The point is that if during this period, for 5 years, anything bad happens, there can be no so-called. Enemy takeovers. Okay, fine, but this could be done in a situation where the (Ring) committee of home affairs and administration, which talked about sanctions against people against whom we are drawing consequences in connection with the war, with Russia's aggression on Ukraine, among others. In the matter of taking over assets. Another thing. Transit, among others. equipment, security, vests and other elements of personal protection or assistance for troops transported to Ukraine - whether it is export from us, whether it is transit of such objects through Poland. It's about special authority, and that's what we agree on. Once again, we say, get to work hard. Today you present the third, corrected order, the corrections in a messy way, with overstepping some things, and you say you're doing the right thing. I understand this voice of the ruling party, which today has not come to an agreement, whether we are choosing Glapiński, who is responsible for high inflation, who cannot prepare the correct rules so that EU money is finally unlocked so that we can finally feel normal. Don't try any more, because this isn't working out right. Thank you very much. Once again, I greet the young. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u326	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Sowińska will speak, who will present the position of the Members' Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u327	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It seemed innocent: it was supposed to be a law adapting our rights to EU rules. 2 weeks ago, at first reading, a project was presented to improve military mobility and introduce VAT preferences for activities carried out within the European Union and NATO. We had no comment on this, because as a Left we are in favour of close cooperation with NATO, we are in favour of strengthening integration with the European Union, including the common European army. However, the Law and Justice at the last moment were reminded that the so-called. The first anti-inflationary shield is about to end, and it's completely turned this project upside down. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr PiS tabled some amendments which are not related to this law on military mobility. These amendments include, among others, an extension of the date of application of reduced rates of excise duty on electricity, exemption from VAT on electricity for households, temporary exemption from retail taxation of fuels and a reduction of excise duty on light fuel oil is to be introduced. Although these proposals are justified, because as we know, we have record inflation and have to fight it, it is surprising that they have not been submitted in a separate bill. They were pressed into the Military Mobility Act, disregarding the rules, as if the PiS were ashamed of being so helpless in the fight against inflation. And he does have something to be ashamed of. You are ashamed that you have led to double-digit inflation, as well as the lack of competence of the NBP President Adam Glapiński. You're ashamed that fertilizer prices are three times higher than last year, and food prices are rising like crazy. You're ashamed that you lied about raising your teachers' and teachers' salaries, and you gave them a real cut. You are ashamed that the energy prices of stock contracts reach record levels - almost 1 000. PLN per MWh. You are ashamed of the fact that the cost of loans made to your homes makes your families not enough money until the payday. You are ashamed that the savings of Poles and Poles are melting at a rapid pace, because inflation eats them, and the rate of investments does not increase. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] Where are you, Members of the Law and Justice, when such an important law on combating inflation is being passed in the Seym? You are ashamed because these solutions, although necessary, will not solve the problem of inflation. This shield is just a shield, but it's a cardboard shield. In order to really solve inflation in Poland, systematic energy measures are needed, because cheap and available energy is the basis of the economy. Without healing the energy system there will be no effective fight against inflation, moreover, energy in the form you propose will be a stone around the neck of the Polish economy and in the long term will lead not only to even more inflation, but also to the withdrawal of companies from Poland and unemployment. The solution is simple. We must immediately unblock the wind energy on land. This wind is the cheapest and safest source of energy. It's extremely irresponsible to lie to people that things are different. Don't let anyone blackmail you and cheat on Kowalski or Ziobra. For these push-ups, people will pay the high price of lowering the standard of living, even poverty, and in the long term - to reduce the competitiveness of Polish companies and unemployment. To win with inflation, you need to heal energy, there is no other way. In conclusion, we have reservations about the procedure for the bill, but we will vote for it. However, we note that the shield itself is not a sufficient tool for combating inflation. Systemic energy solutions are needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 2 weeks ago, we started working on a draft amendment to the law on taxation on goods and services. 2 weeks ago, it was a clear, clear legal text aimed at implementing into the Polish legal order the provisions of the European Union directive ordering VAT to be harmonised for defence activities within the European Union and NATO. In particular, the arrangements contained therein introduced a VAT exemption for the supply of goods and services in the European Union for the use of the armed forces of a Member State or the accompanying civilian staff or for the supply of their messes or canteens and the exemption from VAT for the importation of goods into the Member States by the armed forces of other Member States for the use of those forces or the accompanying civilian personnel or for the supply of their messes or canteens. These exemptions, it is worth noting, can only apply to situations where the armed forces carry out tasks directly related to defence activities within the framework of the common security and defence policy of the European Union, and must not include civilian missions carried out within the framework of that policy. Goods or services supplied for the purpose of civil staff could therefore only be exempted if civilian personnel are accompanied by armed forces carrying out tasks directly related to defence activities under the common security and defence policy outside their Member State. It is worth mentioning that the Union's defence activities under the common policy include military missions and operations, the activities of combat groups, mutual assistance, ongoing structural cooperation projects and the activities of the European Defence Agency. That was two weeks ago. However, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, it was typical for the PiS power to drop out of the area of the original government submission of the bill. As I mentioned, as a result, the project aimed at implementing EU law was extended to include an amendment of five other laws which have nothing to do with the Goods and Services Tax Act, not to mention that they also have nothing to do with EU law. Formally, the authors of these amendments were PiS MEPs, but no one even hid that the real creators of these changes were government representatives, because they, rather than supposed authors, justified amendments and answered Members' questions. So today we are debating not the original project, on which we started work, covering the scope of the change and amendment of one law, but on a project involving the amendment and amendment of as many as six laws, including as far away from the VAT area as the Foreign Trade Act on goods, technologies and services of strategic importance, the Law on the control of certain investments or the Excise Tax Act and on the retail tax. Even if we assume that the purpose of the amendments to these laws is justified, because mostly it is about extending the term of the solutions already adopted, we are dealing with PiS sloppyness and proof that the policy of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki is ruled by chaos, not by the Prime Minister of Poland. After all, knowing that certain rules are about to expire should long be obvious to government officials, as they say, should be in the little finger. It is a long time before the relevant ministers should ask us to prepare a revision of the various laws on which we should work separately in this House. At least this should have happened two, three, four weeks ago when the same project, as amended yesterday in the Committee on Public Finance, was discussed at the Council of Ministers meeting and then formally addressed to the Sejm. If this had been the case, the rules of correct and careful legislation would have been respected and all the provisions would have been dealt with in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of three readings. However, the legal principles and principles of good lawmaking are of little importance to the governing camp. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I can assure you that this will change as soon as the PiS loses its power - and it will soon lose its power - and the rule of government will come into our hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u330	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u331	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state here is wallowing against the background of enriching this project into something that was not in it at first at all. It's a United Rights-style legislation. That's how they do it, there's nothing to be nervous about. It'd be weird if they didn't try to take the opportunity to throw something in there and push something through. But the point is completely different. The essence is that you introduce an army of Eurokolchoz kitchen doors into the Polish legal system, through a barrel, without letting this go through either the defence committee or the Foreign Affairs Committee or at all... No, that's what they said here, because the Left supports it and she likes it very much that there will be a Eurocircle army. The state in the field of implementation is already going through yourself, i.e. You're preparing a place in the legal-system structure for the Eurocircle Army. I object to that, just like I did two weeks ago. I strongly condemn that. Don't do this, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the impression that you are really quite brazen about how you can do a bill that we think is harmful, add something that is often difficult to disagree with, because extending the assumptions of the inflation shield is something that is objectively needed by Poles. But I guess you guys aren't gonna change about it anymore, you're gonna be putting in a little good, a little bad, like in the bark of the poppy. Supporting this law in itself is problematic, because the exemption from VAT of EU countries which buy, for example, Military equipment - we have noted this since the previous sitting - firstly, it is harmful to the Polish state, secondly, it brings us closer to creating a united European army, for which there is no and will never be consent of the Confederation. This is an absurd, harmful idea that harms the Polish state, because if someone believes that French or German soldiers will die for Warsaw, I really congratulate optimism. As a nation, I prefer to think rationally on this matter and consider this matter according to the interests of Poland, because security can only give us and only a well-armed and own army. The release of other countries from VAT has reduced the Polish budget, we must bear this in mind. Question: "What will better affect Polish security - preferential conditions for other countries or investing in their own army?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] The answer seems obvious to me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u334	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u335	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services after presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill contains, you might say, two components, a little military. On the one hand, this is the part concerning changes in VAT. We discussed this part much and widely both at first reading in the High House and during the work of the committee. In principle, we support these changes. E.g. Such changes make ally activities within our alliances, the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union a positive impact on our security and, more importantly, commitments can be implemented more efficiently. It should also be made very clear that anyone who protests today against certain facilitations, simplifications of these formalities, which make us safer, certainly does not work in the interests of the Republic. There's also a second part of this project. In fact, an element was added to this project, which is associated with the extension of the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield. Minister, first reflection. Because, of course, these changes are necessary. Poland 2050 talked about this at the process stage of the first project a few months ago. When we presented the assumptions of such a shield, the state as the government of Law and Justice took part in this. We also said then that this cannot be designed for 2 and 3 months, but this time horizon should correspond to this period when inflation is high. Because we were aware that there would be high inflation, and you were hiding it. But today we know that inflation will not fall in the vicinity of the inflation target for many months. Therefore, we are making an amendment today so that this shield will not be valid until 31 July, as the PiS government proposes, but until inflation actually falls to the inflation target, plus, minus 1%. So Poland 2050 today says that it is the financial security of Poles and Poles that should be ensured with the perspective (The Bell), which will be necessary and resulting from inflation. We hope that this amendment will be accepted. We also make a second amendment, which removes the rules ordering government propaganda to entrepreneurs. Minister, it is truly outrageous that entrepreneurs must praise Law and Justice because it is written in the bill. I am putting these two amendments into your hands and I hope they will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u336	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u337	Minister! I have the feeling, on top of that, you don't understand that you're waking up a demon that can't be tamed later. All the world's armies, which may be admirable - maybe not respect, but admiration - produce subcultures of business, business and business around them. If I read in this bill that you want to tax not only those who are members and act directly, but also family members, then I recall a series of war anecdotes about how this, notabene, also our people, from France, from Normandy with fuel tanks carried wine to the British Isles, and back there something else. Have you calculated the cost of releasing this genie from the bottle, Minister? How many layoffs are there gonna be, how many families are there gonna be, who's gonna benefit from all this? I swear again, don't do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about the law on the tax on goods and services and once again we are dealing with a three-year delay in regulations. But I wanted to ask you something else, and I wanted to ask: Were the amendments tabled to this project really tabled in irregular mode? That's a question for your Member. And are the amendments tabled by the PiS Members really not related to the subject of this law, which happens very often, so I would like to dispel the doubts Not just yours, but the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u340	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The defence activities of the country, and in particular those of the defence treaties, are priority actions and should not be fiscally burdened, which artificially overstates their value. However, I have doubts about the provision related to the reimbursement of taxes on goods and services in the case of soldiers stationed in our country, accompanying civilians and their families, because this law gives the Minister the opportunity to issue such regulations, and I understand that Western weapons are better than Polish and we need to buy them outside the country, but I do not really understand what is better about Western soldiers and their family than the Polish family who also serve in the army. Two specific questions. Whether the Polish mechanic repairing aircraft or tanks purchased in the USA will pay 23% more for furniture or TV from your American friend? And question two. Will wives and daughters of Western officers be able to benefit from a 23 percent reduction (the bell) when it comes to spa or hairdressers, in relation to Polish colleagues? I'd like a written reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There isn't. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two short questions, but I think it's important. First: What is the forecast of inflation development in Poland? Because inflation is growing from month to month at the moment, and it is difficult to justify why we are prolonging the exemption, total or partial excise duty or retail tax only for 2 months. Are we going to continue this every now and then, or are there forecasts that we haven't heard about, that inflation will soon start to decline? That's the first question. The second question concerns information about the benefits applied, and I am particularly interested in the information addressed to electricity consumers, which will reach the public after this release expires (the bell), so what is the point of wasting paper and human strength? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u345	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In this Seym, since law and justice are ruled in Poland along with other parties, there is not a day on which we would not have to deal with the pato-legislative process. This project is a common implementation of the European Directive. As usual, you violate the Sejm's rules by pretending that the authors of the draft or amendments are Members of the Sejm, and these are not necessarily oriented in the matter itself. You don't even pretend that the project is written in ministries, all in order to avoid public consultation, so as to make changes completely at the last minute. I'm surprised you didn't decide to introduce another state of emergency in some territory today. The Republic of Poland or transfer 2 billion public television. This is how you work in the Seym during this term of office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the revised bill, once again the government withdraws from retail tax and commercial tax for a few months, so it is defined by the citizens. This is extremely interesting, because when introducing trade tax, Law and Justice claimed that this tax would not be paid by citizens, but would be paid by large commercial networks, great retailers. It turned out, however, that it is different that this tax is paid by people, because if they did not pay it, the Government of Law and Justice would not withdraw this tax from the prices of goods, only this tax would still be at these prices or would still be paid from some virtual probably just these large corporations' money. [[Applause]] Minister, if they're up in that case (the bell)... So how much will the prices fall in connection with the withdrawal of this tax? How much did the entrepreneurs pay? For the obligation to put out information? How much did that print cost? How much did these advertising places cost, what did you force the entrepreneurs to do in the previous bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u348	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u349	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about the procedure, the way in which legislation is being dealt with, it is just as well - I told the Minister - in a situation where wages are rising in the economy, we should - and we had this idea, and we have this idea, we have put forward such a project - to increase wages by 20% for the administration, for teachers. That would be a good thing. You made these little things. It's two months from now in the case of a reduction in excise duty on fuel oils, on fuel, but also on huge billboards. These huge billboards, people are sick of it. In fact, you would have found a better purpose for the companies to spend that money. In a situation where companies like Orlen record the highest profits, the state is still trying, for their money, to do political propaganda. First question and most importantly: Why only for two months? I mean, two months from now, their price isn't gonna go down. Their price won't drop, and 70% Poles are sick of how you fight, among others. with inflation. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u350	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u351	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In fact, on the occasion of the changes related to the European Directive, you are withdrawing cancer from the inflation shield because it is difficult to treat these shifts by 2 months. It's actually a confession to failure because the shield doesn't work. The shield doesn't work, what we all see. [[Applause]] The inflation beats another record and the end cannot be seen, 15% on the horizon, and the price-paid spiral is actually just getting turned on. I'm asking what kind of action you're going to take. At the same time, I hope you've realized your feet aren't gonna do anything. Yes, credit costs are rising, credit demand is falling. Ricochet, by the way, is given to those who have succumbed to your demands and promises and borrowed in recent years. Incidentally, it doesn't actually affect inflation (the bell), their worse, deteriorating situation. On the other hand, there is a gigantic overliquidity of the banking system and this results in a lack of response to the increase in deposit rates. What are you going to do to counteract inflation? Because today she is really touching all Polish families, contrary to what you said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u352	Thank you very much. Please remain calm in the courtroom. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, I'm asking you to calm down in the courtroom. I wanted another person to take the floor. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u353	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the amendments tabled at the last minute concerns the extension of the COVID rules by 36 months, under which the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection can control investments in Polish companies made through entities from OECD countries and entities from other countries. This amendment seems strange, especially in the context of the recent resale of 400 petrol stations of the Hungarian Lotus MOL, which is buying and buying Russian oil. Therefore, I have a question: Why didn't you prevent this transaction, thanks to which Russia will be able to earn in Poland and kill people in Ukraine, and is there any other bottom of this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u354	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Since the tax waiver or exemption is supposed to be anti-inflationary today, I understand that you also acknowledge that it was a pro-inflationary factor when you introduced it into the tax system, so today when you want to write in stores that the PiS government is lowering taxes, you will also say that it was introduced earlier by the PiS government. But it's important enough to stick to the facts. However, I wanted to ask, Minister, why do you extend these provisions only for two months? Are we now the House... We know well that inflation in two months will not end, that this increased price increase will be with us for a year, or maybe even two years, that even results from your government documents and why every two months extend the operation of the shield for another two months, after all this (the bell) does not give citizens a sense of stability, nor does it make planning easier for businesses, and we need to discuss this every two months unnecessarily. One more question, briefly, Marshal: How much government, or government is monitoring it at all? Did it actually affect the level of prices in places where taxes have been reduced and whether the margin of companies has increased, especially in those places where we have a monopoly who, as we know, has benefited from this and has been profiting from our misery since the beginning of the year...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u357	... It's time to actually go after Obietka and similar colleagues who make the most money on the shield. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u358	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u359	Ladies and gentlemen! General note: The VAT Act already has a thousand pages and has already been amended 50 times. Today's another change, and it's just one VAT. We have at least a few dozen taxes, e.g. income tax - Law 3 000. parties amended more than 50 times, the Corporate Tax Act amended 32 times during one term. But, of course, the law, in order for it to be a law, not a lion, must be permanent, so that people, including entrepreneurs, can plan anything. It has to be simple, otherwise our law is like a web, the fart will get through, the musty will get stuck, which is why in Poland large international tax corporations do not pay, and the little ones do. I have a question for the government: are you doing this because you want to serve big international corporations or are you just crazy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u360	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is particularly important in the present time of Russia's attack on Ukraine, which is taking place just outside our borders. As early as 2019, the European Union set out a plan to remove unnecessary administrative burdens in the context of military mobility resulting from VAT regulation. Why, then, we are only now dealing with this important project implementing the EU directive, not to mention the fact that it enters into force at almost the last possible moment. I wanted to ask you what caused such a long delay. When you finally get to work and notice that inflation is already 13%, because I feel like you don't see it at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u362	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u363	Minister! High Izbo! Members of the opposition today talk about inflation and compare this economic situation, this inflation situation by 2008, by 2009. I will ask if we felt at that time whether there was a pandemic or if there was an armed conflict in Ukraine at that time, because we should ask the basic question why this inflation is. Minister! Today, at the meeting of the finance committee, we heard that in times of crisis and such inflation - you said Prof. Rosati - taxes are not reduced. Something psychic and unusual. Minister, I would like to ask: How many Poles will benefit from these solutions that we are investigating today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The point of this law, namely the implementation of the EU VAT Directive, is clear. I'm talking about one of the usual for the right side of the dumps: fuel and excise. You create luxury conditions for Orlen to swell in the next billions at the expense of Poles and Poles. Of course, you have to be fair. At the moment, the refinery margin has increased dramatically in Orlena, because we have a record Ural/Brent differential, which is this price difference between North Sea oil and Russia, which has always been one-, pair-of-percent, now amounts to over 30%. It's probably only going to take a while, but we've only stopped the import of crude oil, and we're still buying fuel: diesel, various gasoline, even aviation, their prices have increased more than oil. Most likely (The Bell) high fuel prices will persist for a long time. Why this excise duty only until the end of July and not longer? Do you think fuel prices are going to fall? Last sentence only. We know that because this is of course a problem for Jan Kowalski who is fuelling at every gas station, but also for VAT companies. Low VAT is not for the benefit of VAT companies, because it is not his... Well, let's just say it's like the time to get the money back for the fuel VAT disappears, but the excise is. If excise duty would be a large extension, it is a clear advantage also for VAT companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u366	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Arthur Sobonia, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, thank you very much for your good cooperation at the committee meeting, the possibility to proceed today at second reading on this law together. There were a lot of voices, but the questions weren't that many, so I think I'm going to refer not to polemics, but I'm going to limit myself to answering questions, because some of these questions either didn't concern this law at all, or it went far beyond the scope we're proceeding with. Among the questions I picked up are the following. Mr Braun asked about the costs. So we are talking about costs that are estimated at European level, because we are not talking about a solution that generates any costs in Poland, because, as everyone knows, today we do not have a situation where this mechanism of a common security and defence policy would be applied in practice, and only in such a situation would the armed forces of individual European countries, not common European forces, but only the armed forces of individual European countries, have an exemption from VAT. The cost of this preference is estimated by the European Commission at EUR 80 million. Mr Cichoń and many Members spoke about the shields and the length of the shield in connection with the excise duty and the expansion of the circle of products covered by the shield. I would like to say that we are talking here about the July deadline when it comes to equalising the VAT shield with excise duty, and we will, of course, decide, by looking at and assessing inflation, whether it is extended or not. And today, according to all analysts, this is about 2 percentage points less due to the activity of these two shields. Mr Adamczyk pointed out this, and there were many voices that said that these amendments were tabled to this law during the work of the committee and that this was not the ideal, perfect way of working. Of course, I accept this criticism, but I also point out that, at the same time, Members of the opposition have tabled amendments during today's second-reading work that go beyond the scope of this law. So let's keep it equal. [[Like Cuba to God, so is God to Cuba.]] At least let's not use this argument against one side of this Sejm. Mr Szopiński asked an important question. I want us to be precise here. Not only do they concern Poles, of course, but where this mechanism will be used and the Polish Armed Forces will operate within the framework of a common security and defence policy, of course they will use exactly the same tax preferences as the armed forces of other countries in Poland. This is therefore a mechanism adopted at the level of the directive, and not a mechanism proposed by the Polish government. This is the answer to Mr Berkowicz, who, of course, asked this question quite colourfully, but it does not concern this issue. This is simply the implementation of the European Union directive. Perhaps you would like Poland not to be a member of the European Union, but we do not have such an objective and we also implement European legislation in Poland in the form of implementation of directives. Mrs Sowińska had a rather extensive statement here, and the question I had noted concerned the consent of the OOKiK to safeguard measures and the way in which Orlen and Lotus were combined. I would like to point out that it is not the UOKiK here that indicates and does not ultimately decide, only this is the merger which is based on the assessment of the European Commission and at this level it is assessed. Mrs Navel, I assure you that we will be able to implement this directive in time, which is until 1 July. Mr Wolski paid attention to entrepreneurs. Mr President, I understand that in this Chamber we know how VAT works. We are talking to final consumers, i.e. Poles who fuel cars, use electricity, buy fuel oil, anything. They will be the beneficiary of these changes and to them today we are addressing our offer for this extension in this part of the shield, which is regulated by law, because with regard to VAT, it may be extended by a regulation. We had to make this change by law and today we are proposing it to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u368	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, as rapporteur for the committee, I would like to clarify a few points here. I felt that the justifications we received at the meeting were sufficient, but here in this Chamber, a few questions have been asked, and I will therefore allow myself to refer to them. As rapporteur, I tried to present all the information. The fact is that three amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. In my opinion, the parliamentary amendments that have been tabled are needed, but indeed the Legislative Bureau has been sent to us to believe that the first reading took place in plenary, in accordance with the procedure for such tax-related projects. On the other hand, this was the first possible moment at which such amendments could be tabled. I say this as rapporteur: there was a discussion on this subject and various arguments were put forward. I understand that, as rapporteur, I should also talk about you, which is why I am talking about this and reminding you. Concerning the amendment which was tabled and tabled after the article. 1, I am not calling anybody by name, Commissioner, but I am just talking about this as an element that should be explained. In this amendment after the article. 1 we have introduced regulations whose aim is to protect Polish companies considered important for the order of safety or public health from the so-called. enemy takeovers. It was assumed that these provisions would apply in the longer term, i.e. for a further 24 months from the date of their entry into force, i.e. until July this year. The earlier impact of the COVID was longer than expected at the start of the pandemic, additionally in recent months there have been other factors that aggravate the distortions of national and EU markets, which are mainly detrimental to competition. These are mainly due to war activities carried out in Ukraine's territories, as well as economic sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus. As a result, there has been a sharp rise in fuel and energy prices for entrepreneurs, and problems with the availability of raw materials and intermediates have increased. I would like to remind you that the European Commission in its communication, which was also a matter of discussion at the committee meeting, which also covered the issues of the amendments tabled, because we are living in a situation that is very... The point is that our environment is changing very rapidly and the European Commission in its Communication has put forward guidelines for Member States on foreign direct investment from Russia and Belarus in connection with military aggression towards Ukraine and restrictive measures set out in recent Council Regulations on sanctions. The European Commission itself concluded that, under the current circumstances, there is a significantly increased risk that foreign direct investment by Russian and Belarusian investors could pose a threat to security and public order. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not change the scope of the current Act on the control of certain investments. The amendment to the Act consists only in adding the circumstances justifying the extension of the provisions for a further 3 years. So much for this amendment. I would also like to stress that on 17 March the provisions of the Act of 11 March 2022 on the amendment of the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies, Services of strategic importance for State Security entered into force, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. Simplified procedures for exports of protective equipment to Ukraine have been introduced for a period of 2 months. The purpose of this provision is precisely to extend the validity of the amendments to improve the procedures for the marketing of goods, technology and services of strategic importance for exports of protective equipment to Ukraine, which I believe is also relevant to the current situation. Another amendment is also very closely related to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. After all, we see that the turbulence in the fuel market, in the energy market, breaking down many supply chains, many... [[You say your opinion. You present your opinions, not the committee.]] I would also like to present the discussion, Madam President. I understand that, at both the committee meeting and at the moment, the possibility of speaking is very limited. All I'm saying is that this was also the subject of a discussion that had gone over and which was not just about directing comments from the state. In the explanatory memorandum on these amendments, the circumstances in which it is envisaged to extend the temporary reduction of excise duties on electricity to certain motor fuels, the exemption from excise duty on electricity used by households and the temporary exemption from the retail tax on fuels are provided for. These changes are closely linked to the current situation. Of course, what I'm about to say wasn't at the committee meeting, but it came down here in this room, so I'm not going to go into details. Let me just say that, in my opinion, energy from the wind and solar energy in Europe and the world has been missed many times. Here the issue was raised that this was introduced at the meeting of the finance committee. Therefore, I will say that these unstable energy carriers must also be the result and element of the relevant technological changes that are being introduced today in front of our eyes, but which also require time, and which are related to the storage and instability of these energy sources. As for fuel prices, the Member also said that Orlen is getting rich. This was not the subject of discussion, but it fell here during the debate on this project. I would like to quote Eurostat data, statistical data which indicate that in terms of fuel in Poland - I have only data on petrol, etylin 95, reference - this is on average EUR 1.4, in Austria - EUR 1.75, in the Czech Republic - EUR 1.76, in Germany - EUR 2.01, in Slovakia - EUR 1.78. So Poland is a country where these fuel prices are relatively low, but still very high. On the other hand, I pay attention to this because it fell here, during the debate. With regard to the last moment of implementation of this directive, at the very beginning, when I presented the draft law, as rapporteur, I stressed that Directive 2019/2235 is to be implemented in the national legal order by 30 June 2022. That's why we're in time. And once again, I would like to stress that all these elements which were presented at the committee's meeting, I have tried to convey as faithfully as possible during my first speech. I did not extend a certain discussion, but I pointed to the main elements of it. I also said that three amendments were tabled, which were positively assessed and adopted by the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u370	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska in correction mode. One minute. [[I did not quote the words of the Member.]] You referred, I heard, to the Member. You've been avoiding it, but you've made the most of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u371	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I very much asked at the committee meeting during the election of the rapporteur to provide the full information in a fair manner. Mr Gawada, as rapporteur, uses these facts sparingly. What we're trying to say is that at the Legislator's Office, they said we'd crossed the procession by skipping the first reading. And these are constitutional reservations about these amendments. We also said that these amendments, late by you and not by this law, should not be procedated. As for their meaning in this debate, we refer to each of these amendments, but as for the mode of each of these amendments, there was a reservation by the Legislative Bureau that you were skipping the first reading. This is not a constitutional legislative procedure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I paid attention to this earlier in accordance with the regulations, and I asked for it as well. And in this respect, I will be consistent. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u372	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (prints No 2212 and 2220). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, print No 2212. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 27 April 2022 the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 10 May 2022, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 2212 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u374	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Gabriel Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[Anna Milczanowska on behalf of the club.]] But I have the name of Mrs. Gabriela Masłowska from the office. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws, print No 2212. The draft law aims to ensure the proper and efficient execution of tasks relating to the preparation and implementation of the inclusion in the section: Regional development of matters related to preparation and implementation, among others. investments concerning the Central Communication Port and accompanying investments. Its main objective is to adapt the structure of government administration to the needs arising from the implementation of the above mentioned. tasks. The aim of this effect is to move to the following heading: Regional development of cases relating to the preparation and implementation of the investments identified. The aim of improving the decision-making process is also to entrust directly to the plenipotentiary. the construction of the Central Airport of competence related to the implementation of the investment process. To date, most of the competences in this area have been exercised by the Minister of Transport through a proxy. It should be stressed that strategic decisions have been taken in terms of infrastructure, while further steps are being taken to build a new transport system for railways in two EU perspectives... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u376	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u377	Thank you. It is about two further EU perspectives by 2034. The construction and modernisation of transport routes is one of the strongest urban factors that actively combats the exclusion of transport. The development of the regions should be discussed, thoughtful and carefully planned, stimulated by the construction of railway lines and one of the largest airports in Europe. It goes on, among other things. about routes, high-speed railway stops or other newly formed routes. This will improve this law. The programme, which consists of 30 investment tasks and 1981 km of new railway lines, is comparable to the national road development funds scale or the national road construction programme, where the project will be allocated PLN 292 billion and PLN 89 billion respectively. It is worth pointing out that the projects of the Central Communication Port receive approval, as Mr Marcin Horała said at yesterday's committee meeting and, above all, funding from European Union funds in competitions where there is no national participation from the top. In the recently decided competition, two projects of the Central Communication Port received a targeted, 100 percent substantive assessment against the background of projects of other European Union countries, thanks to which Poland became the largest beneficiary, gaining 1/6 of the envelope. Projects to reduce environmental pollution, CO emissions Given the complexity of the tasks accompanying the planned investments and the fact that they concern not only transport-related issues and the scope of the planned actions will play an important role for regional development, the delegation of these competences to the minister responsible for regional development is fully justified. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u378	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u379	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the law on government departments and some other laws is merely a technical change in the division of competences. According to the applicants, the proposed provisions aim to ensure that the tasks relating to the preparation and implementation of investments, accompanying investments and other tasks contained in the Central Communication Port programme are carried out. It is interesting that, 5 years after the announcement of the construction of the Central Communication Port, the government decides that for this project to be carried out, it is necessary to move it from the Minister responsible for transport to the Minister responsible for regional development. The CPK government representative tried to explain to the Members of the Infrastructure Committee that the project was infrastructurally exhausted at strategic level. No one knows how an infrastructure project can run out, for which the location of the railway, road and even the airport itself is not known. The project, which is still unknown as to the extent of the impact of the investment, how many thousands of families will be forced out and how it will affect regional airports and Chopin Airport in Warsaw. In fact, it is interesting - the Minister assured us yesterday that the decision to close Chopin Airport has not yet been made, despite the fact that the analysis of traffic and the conflict of arrival and waste routes clearly indicates that there is no justification for the safe and economic coexistence of these two airports. I would like to remind you that the assumptions and concept of the construction of the CPK were already defined in 2017. The estimated cost of this investment was then prepared by a government representative for CPKs together with an advisory team. The cost of the aviation component was then estimated at about PLN 19 billion and the total amount of the project was about 35 billion. According to the latest estimates of the CPK from this year, but even before the war in Ukraine, the airport itself would cost 35 billion PLN and the railway component - which is of course significantly expanded compared to the one planned at the beginning - over 200 billion PLN. Of course, it can be explained that the 35 billion was only a concept, but the construction of the air component has doubled over five years and the cost of the blown-up rail component has increased more than tenfold. Are these costs real? Of course not. Estimates do not take into account many necessary expenditures such as rolling stock and LOT support. Nor do they take into account the galloping prices of building materials, inflation and expropriation costs of thousands of people whose homes unfortunately got in the way of this project. Even the Supreme Audit Chamber considers that the CPK concept does not provide a full business justification, and the CPK implementation schedule was general in nature and indicated the impossible deadlines for individual tasks to be met. In such a situation, I am not surprised at the minister responsible for transport that he agrees to get rid of this oversized and poorly planned investment from his department, which is still unknown where the funds for the whole project are to come from and what the total cost of obtaining them and the cost of handling this debt will be, to the extent that the independence of our state can weaken these funds and, of course, whether, in the face of the ongoing war, an arbitrary change in the transport system from distributed to centralist, much more difficult to defend against acts of diversion, terror or war activities should be considered as a priority. However, when returning to this project, it should be stressed that the idea of implementing the CPK outside the Ministry of Infrastructure will mean even worse coordination with other infrastructure programmes. Moreover, it announces this deterioration and so embarrassingly poor coordination of railway projects carried out by CPK with railway projects to be carried out by PKP PLK and which remain under the supervision of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The agreement will result in two ministries implementing the construction and development of road, rail and air projects. So we should prepare in advance for chaos and conflict of competence. It should also be pointed out that the project provides for the power of attorney to be conferred on the Minister responsible for transport, e.g. as regards the supervision of State Enterprise Airports, appointment and dismissal of the President and Vice-Presidents of PPL. Such an extraordinary distinction of proxy - at the expense of the Minister of Infrastructure - is a provision for conflicts, disputes of competence. Unbelievable, virtually uncontrollable authority will be entrusted to a person who, unfortunately, could not even order a dispute with air controllers. This solution will lead to a situation in which CPK, a special purpose company, practically especially the airport company. She will be able to dictate airport policy where PPL has shares, which is 11 airports plus Chopin Airport. High Izbo! This law can be called the Grand Escape Act of the CPK representative from the Ministry of Infrastructure. There is no denying that his inability to supervise aviation has exhausted his ability to cooperate with the minister responsible for transport (the bell) and therefore wants to escape under the wing of the minister responsible for regional development. But why is this at the expense of other infrastructure projects and regional airports? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens I ask for rejection in the second reading of the government bill amending the law on government departments. Projects such as this should be carried out in the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u380	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on amending the law on government departments and some other laws is such a special piece of art, moving from one place to another, with a very similar assumption... When half of us mix tea left and the other - right, no one assumes that this tea will be sweeter than this mixing. Unfortunately, no one but the Minister. The Minister in the committee quoted quotes from articles published in the Russian press and talked about how we have criticised his actions so far. But, Minister, I don't think that's us. I think you're the Minister Adamczyk of Infrastructure who's had enough of you and said we're quitting. The most interesting way to read this bill, the impact assessment of regulation, is what problem is being solved. I will literally read how it is in the explanatory memorandum: In connection with the transition from the preparatory phase to the implementation of the Central Communication Port, further as the CPK, it is also necessary to redefine the scope of the representative's activities for the Central Communication Port. Here I'll tell you that we're still at the consultation stage. Not so long ago, in April, consultations were held on the route between Wałbrzych and Lubabka and Świdnica, and comments were made. So what's the realization? And further: The development of the CPK environment should also be taken into account with the progress of the work affecting the remodelling of the country's transport system. First of all, in his neighborhood there will be a congress environment, which will include, among other things, a convention environment. fair and congress facilities, conference and office facilities. Therefore, the operation of both the connecting node and the commercial-office area around it will significantly affect the transformation of the vast area of the CPK environment. The changes will address both broadly understood economic aspects, including the destination of agricultural real estate, changes in spatial planning, and social influx of highly skilled workers. In addition, the creation of a network of high-speed rail connections could affect developments in other regions of the country, resulting inter alia. from the liquidation of the so-called transport exclusion. It is therefore necessary to allow for closer cooperation between the representative and the minister responsible for regional development in order to prepare and implement the development strategy of the region as a whole, taking into account the expected socio-economic changes. In fact, we have one thing in this statement: the most important thing for your proxy is the surroundings of the airport. I think no one in this room, as we sit here, has any delusions: we should build fast railway lines, new road routes. This should all be carried out at the Ministry of Infrastructure, because it is really responsible for these investments, not us. The Minister says, "Proxy"? I'm gonna run this place and talk about where it's gonna be built. When we asked on the committee what preparation was like today... After all, it is clear from the justification that we have everything planned, we move on to implementation. We have no money, and we are going to get 30 billion from the European Union. Yes, Minister? Only for now does Mr Zbigniew Ziobro want us out of this European Union. We also asked about things about environmental consent. The Minister says it's taking time to do this. throughout the year, at different times of the year. Minister, what are we looking at when we don't have designated corridors when it comes to roads, railroad tracks? How are we supposed to test the impact when we're still consulting? So the question is, what is it that we need today that this project... He is clearly rubbish and we will support the citizens' platform's motion to reject him at second reading, as we supported in the first one. What had to happen that we had to move your actions, broadening your competence (the bell) to another ministry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u382	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u383	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the coalition Poland club in relation to changes proposed by the government in the law on government departments and in some other laws, print no. 2212. According to this law, it is proposed to include in the department the regional development of matters relating to the preparation and implementation of investments, accompanying investments and other tasks contained in the programme referred to in Article. 2 point 7 of the Act of 10 May 2018 on Central Communication Port. This will allow coordination of the remodelling of the transport system with appropriate adaptation of the regional development strategy. In this respect, an appropriate interpretation at the level of statutory amendments is necessary. So much for the theory. How's practice? The Central Communication Port, as also mentioned by my previous speakers, has been heard for at least 4 years and there is still a stubble in this place. Work goes bad at every stage. The changes discussed here are also at least late. After the pandemic and during the energy crisis, we should talk about support for the development of renewable energy and the construction of new transmission networks, not about a giant transport port that is likely to be empty. The government has no social resistance, the voice of local governments, the economic rules or the security of the country. Based on the Ukrainian experience, it is enough to say that one rocket or one bomb is enough to make the most important communication port in our country cease to exist. It is better to support small airports, such as: port in Bydgoszcz or in Modlin, and many other regional ports. It is also worth considering the development of communication links between the largest cities of the regions and connections with the capital. We don't need a pier in any way, a giant communication port. I would also like to remind on behalf of the inhabitants of my Kujawsko-Pomorskie region and my Bydgoszcz district that Polish communication does not end somewhere between Warsaw and Łódź. Regional ports and regional connections are also important. At the moment, we should pay attention to this because there are the biggest communication problems in these places. Our citizens, our citizens, do not report the need for a new port at all. On the contrary, we see great social resistance from all sides, which was also mentioned by the previous speakers. You are in no way prepared to make such an investment. The appointment of an all-powerful representative, who will take over the powers of the competent minister and will de facto manage airports, appoint and dismiss both the presidents and the supervisory board, raises huge doubts about my club. It's a psychic. In all normal companies of the Treasury or such creations, it is usually the responsibility of the minister concerned rather than the superpower. Looks like you're creating another super-government, another super-station for your colleague, and this bill is just about to sanction his existence and actually move him to another ministry, because in which he was, he just couldn't handle it. Thank God there's gonna be an election soon. You haven't started, and you're never gonna start putting in that bullshit again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u384	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before us print no. 2212 containing a draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws. What is this project about? Let's vote for the authors. Please do not laugh: The specific nature of these tasks indicates the need to optimise planning and management processes, in particular as regards the wider development of the region, and it is therefore proposed to transfer the tasks related to the construction of the CPK from the responsibility of the Minister responsible for transport to the competence of the Minister responsible for regional development. What's the problem? In view of the transition from the preparatory phase to the implementation of the CPK to the design and implementation phase, it is also necessary to redefine the scope of the CPK representative's activities. Let's translate it into Polish. To be clear and clear, Mr Horała does not want to cooperate with the man Jarosław Kaczyński, who is the Minister of Infrastructure. He wants him transferred to the man of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the Minister of Development and Technology. [[Bravo!]] We Now we're wasting our time in the Seym because gentlemen are acting like children in a sandbox. This bill doesn't change anything about the construction of the CPK. In order to find out that such actions are needed, it is enough to look at the January NIK report. Yes, Minister, this is about the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not about the Russian journals where you read, which we could have learned at the committee meeting. So what does the NIK report say? The largest government investment in Poland, i.e. the construction of the CPK, is already delayed at the start. NIK indicates that, at this rate, the completion of the construction of the airport by the end of 2027 is at risk. In addition, it is still unclear how much the CPK will cost or where the money will come from for this project. In order for the new airport to be cost-effective, it would have to handle 24.3 million passengers in 2030 and investment expenditure must not exceed PLN 46 billion. NIK asked the CPK government representative to develop feasibility studies of individual projects or sub-programmes and to develop a timetable for the implementation of the CPK programme, to establish a full plan for financing the programme with an indication of the necessary expenditures and sources of funding and to develop the Chopin Airport's business plan and the development strategy of the PPL in the period after the CPK was put into service. And that's what you're supposed to do, Minister. But, well, you do other things. As a cherry on this failed cake, for 2022, 1 350 thousand were planned for remuneration at the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for Central Communication Port. zł. The Bureau employs nine employees. This is very irrationally spent money. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Confederation will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u387	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the law on the departments of government administration and some other laws. High Izbo! This, of course, is not a debate about changes in administration, as would the Law and Justice and the Government of the PiS. This is a debate. one of the most inefficiently planned and implemented infrastructure investments to be the Central Communication Port and the entire accompanying infrastructure. The decisions were taken in 2017 and have been valid for 5 years. Since then, transfers to the parties' nominates of Law and Justice have been the most efficient, while substantive issues have been very bad, and this is more like a sad crime than an efficient investment. The Minister recently claimed that the first aircraft from the airport in Baranów would take off in 2027. Minister, we could use a bet, along with an indication of the punishment you're gonna incur if... [[In 2025.]] The year 2025 was last. The Minister was talking about 2027, so I'm asking you if the Minister stands by it. If so, what plane will it be? [[The kind that's gonna be in the meadow.]] Are they gonna be models? Cessna type that can take off from grassy airports? Sad is the investment, because people whose investment will deprive their family land are treated as an object that can be moved as they please power, as well as a criminal, because during these inefficient jobs the inhabitants have repeatedly warned that people claiming to be investment workers have invaded many times without informing and without permission to the homes. This shows how this investment is carried out in practice. As I said, this reminds me of the implementation of investments from the period of the unleavened Polish People's Republic, where linear investment routes were marked by a finger moving across the map, without any concern for society, about people and about respect in treatment. On the occasion of construction, the issue of high-speed rail connections is extremely important. Already at the start it turns out that more in this policy than rational decisions, and even if railway lines arise, we already see today that there will be nothing to drive on these tracks. Minister, there are new, renovated sections already today, and there are no warehouses that could be released for these episodes. So I'm asking you how you're gonna provide the right level of equipment for this infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this investment should be carried out in the Ministry of Infrastructure, where it belongs. Therefore, on behalf of Poland 2050, I request that this bill be rejected at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to point out that I am counting on a written reply from the Minister, and I would like to ask you a few questions. The first question concerns how much they earned together in 2021 by members of the Central Communication Port Board. Was it a million? Was it a few million? I'm talking about a specific amount. Second question: Is the CPK representative appointed in the Silesian Voivodeship and is this investment in the Silesian Voivodeship implemented according to the scheduled schedule? Third question: What has been implemented in the Silesian Voivodeship so far according to the timetable and assumptions concerning the Central Communication Port? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u390	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have the most expensive meadow in our country in the world, land in Saudi Arabia is nothing. The number of officials working for this meadow is equally impressive. In response to a number of irregularities identified by the NIK, a government representative announced a new doctrine that this port is intended to serve the US administration as a logistical base for the transport of troops and purchased across the ocean of weapons, except that no one has ever mentioned that the CPK is to be a military airport. I therefore have a question: How does the government intend to finance such a gigantic investment by the end of 2027 in the face of completely new challenges? Have they already been prepared to publish allegations against the European Union that the investment has not been carried out on time because of EU Commissioners, or are you just working on this document? And the last two questions I would like to ask for answer in writing: Has a CPK proxy been appointed in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how many such representatives have been appointed in the country at all? I would like a timetable for the implementation of the work in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodship within the CPK. I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u392	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I received a letter from people living in the planned Central Communication Port. I'm just going to quote some parts because the letter is almost dramatic. The people particularly want to draw attention to the futility of investment, especially in these days of galloping inflation, rising interest rates and uncertain geopolitical situation: We fear that the utopian vision will come at the expense of human harm, as well as at the cost of bending the law. The inhabitants of more than 400 houses are at risk of being displaced in the Jaktorów commune, in the Baranów commune - the inhabitants of more than 500 houses, giving a total number of about 2.5 thousand. residents. The problem of displacement under extreme financial disadvantages will concern not a few thousand, but tens of thousands of Poles, because the investment concerns 11 other municipalities. Unfortunately, work is currently underway on the amendment of the Economics Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The changes concern benefits. The benefits for the State Treasury can amount to about a dozen billion zlotys. The inhabitants are simply afraid that this two-digit inflation, which is currently being recorded, rising daily costs will lead to the fact that the contractor selected under the tender will not be able to make this investment, the whole investment...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u394	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u395	...will fall and the estate will be sold for nothing. It's a man's property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u396	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Super Minister Triune in as many as two vice-ministers and one government attorney! Listening to you at yesterday's committee meeting, and not only can you really see how far, reading Putin propaganda, you can fly off with your favorite sputnik, out of orbit around the earth, but only that a more appropriate landing will be the same in Bajkonura and not in the Polish Ministry of Regional Development for our money. You also said that the CPK's infrastructure process has now run out, and that's why the change has been made. Yes, this law proves the transition from the infrastructure stage to the virtual stage, because the government adopted e.g. a resolution on the plan of investment intentions and priorities in the CPK case, but there is no resolution, it has not found any material emanation. I would therefore like to make it available in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But money is material, and the Minister is either ashamed or unable to count how much has been spent with a light hand so far. And I'd ask for a written reply here, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u398	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u399	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a very strange project. The Minister is working badly with Minister Adamczyk and has decided that he will now carry out his megalomaniac project in another department, this megalomaniac project, or Central Communication Port. And now two ministries will manage railroads and roads. But what does that mean for ordinary people? Nothing. Many Poles will still live like a bomb, among them also inhabitants of the Łódź settlement Mileszki and Podłódzkie Więczynia Dolny. You've given the villagers a hell of a place. Minister! I'd like to invite you to Milesek and the Lower Prison. Explain to the residents of these settlements why they still don't know if it's through the middle of their home that a new railroad route will take place. Why do they not know how much time they will have to move out of their home (the bell) or whether they will receive compensation, and what will it be like? And do they have enough compensation to rebuild their life's work? And to those who will eventually stay in the area of this estate after building a new railroad, explain how they will continue to live around the highway, by rail, deprived of the forest, etc.? I have already written six interpellations in this matter, and I demand that you answer them as soon as possible. I'd like to invite you again. They're really smart, good people.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u400	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u401	I'm sure they'll treat you well. I'm sure they'll want to talk. They're not gonna throw eggs, they're not gonna spill orange juice. I encourage you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u402	Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project that we're working on right now, as I said before, is kind of curiosity, but it brings with it a lot of questions. Will the geopolitical situation that has changed dramatically today be taken into account in any way in your plans for CPK? I am not talking about this convention centre, which will be built around the airport, because there are many such convention centers in Poland. Or perhaps it would be much better to build in smaller towns, i.e. to give them a chance, e.g. at an airport such as Jelenia Góra, a runway so that plane flaris will land there, which will soon be such a flagship card of Podgórzyn, a Krkonoše district that is able to land on a 250-metre-long runway? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us look for solutions that will help to revive the regions around us, not build a great pier in the centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u404	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u405	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When will you finally admit that the Central Communication Port is a complete failure? Your stubbornness would have been even ridiculous if it hadn't been for how many people you've been suffering. A couple from Międzyborowa started building a house two years ago, and now it turns out that the railway tracks are supposed to run through the middle of their plot. There are thousands of such cases throughout Poland. All these people don't know what's next, whether they get compensation or how high they're gonna get, because no one's talking to them. Meanwhile, Minister Horała, instead of starting a real public consultation, is busy with himself and moving from one ministry to another. In six months, will the Minister and the CPK under his arm move from one ministry to another? Is this gonna be our new tradition? So how many ministries are supposed to coordinate infrastructure investments at this point? Total chaos of competence threatens us. What a joke to the side. When will we see the analysis justifying this project? When will you prove that the CPK is a better concept than the development of the Occasion and other airports? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The project is already over four years behind schedule. How much was the total cost of remuneration for the management of the entire CPK company so far? Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to call things by name: there's no such thing as the Central Communication Port. There's a central money launderer or, if any, a central communication failure. End this charade...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u406	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u407	...withdraw from the construction of the CPK or at least focus on the railway component. There's a dramatic lack of attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u408	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u409	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the failure to supervise PAŻP and aviation, Minister Marcin Horała, like the priest, was transferred to another parish. And now you're doing the same thing with the CPK, moving it from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy. But just as the Church can no longer deny the crime of pedophilia, neither can you hide the indolence associated with the field in Baranów. After all, in addition to your 40-thousand-dollar salary, 100 million PLN spent according to NIK by the end of 2020 for an investment that has not even started, there is nothing. There is no specific area, there is no final decision on the location, there is no indication of how many people will need to be resettled to satisfy your power ambitions. In the meantime, the world was gripped by a pandemic, people stopped flying, war broke out in Ukraine, fuel was expensive, you argued with flight controllers (the bell), you neglected the present airports, and the idea of CPK as lasted, so it continues. And to think that it was all just to write the name of one of the brothers on the wall of an empty, unnecessary airport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u410	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister of Infrastructure Mr Adamczyk was involved in transport and construction, spatial planning, and Central Communication Port. After the programme, the Minister for Construction and Spatial Planning was removed. Today you're picking up the Central Communication Port. Does this mean that Minister Adamczyk failed to cope with another task? So the Central Communication Port is another failure, just like the Living + ¿. Minister Horała, who is now the Deputy Minister of Transport and Deputy Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, means the sovereign superpower for super money. It won't build the airport, but maybe it's a good thing. Maybe that's better, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You can argue whether the Central Communication Port Company employs 200 or 300 employees with an average salary of more than 11 thousand. Gross. You can argue, or you can argue. The railroad spokes will bring us back to the dynamics and development of the railroad from Edward Gierek's time. But one thing's for sure: the CPK will never rise. A few facts from the Supreme Audit Chamber report from the beginning of this year. We still don't know how much the CPK will cost or where the money will come from for this project. It is impossible to meet the deadlines for each task, we read in the report NIK. Question: Please state the name and salary of the CPK representative in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. Please respond in writing. Another intriguing question: What happened to your little jacket? Will this name be pierced (the bell) or will there be a new jacket with public money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u414	Thank you, sir. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u415	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My journey of Minister Horala to the new resort also reminds me of moving from parish to parish. Only that in both cases problems do not disappear, they move with the delicacy to a new place. There's no request for an environmental decision. There's no decision on the location. There's no project either. But there's Minister Horala and his meadow. We have no delusions: the Minister will move with the carton to another warm chair, but that will not cause the Minister to suddenly start working. But something other than the problems, the Minister will move with him to the new ministry. And it will be wages, high wages for him and for his colleagues. 49,000. zł per month for the head of the airport that does not exist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 49,000. PLN per month - tell this country to Polish teachers, who you refused to raise at the previous session of the Sejm. I wanted to ask you, when are you going to start working and not just making money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u416	Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's not a good idea to move your assignments to another department. The aviation market is a whole and all segments, including regional ports, need to be dealt with in this whole area. Between 2007 and 2013, we spent PLN 6 billion, EUR 1.5 billion on regional ports. We cannot allow these investments to be wasted. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you had a problem answering the question of what will happen. If you had read this analysis in 2010, you could have responded in detail. I'm helping, but it's also available on the Internet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we should reject this project so that you can remember the needs of regional ports and local communities. The infrastructure is supposed to connect, not divide. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u418	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have good news for you. The first plane from Baranów already landed and took off. Last year, it was me. I did it at this airport. [[Applause]] It hasn't had so many belts yet, but it worked. On the other hand, I have a question about what you said yesterday. You said there's no problem with expropriation because no one's been expropriated yet. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] But maybe the minister would change his mind if you came to see the people of Jaktorów, the inhabitants of Baranów, Wiskitek, Teresina, or perhaps to meet the inhabitants of Silesia, maybe in Podkarpacie. I was there, I listened to these people last year. Some have homes put into use, and in winter or spring they learn that where they have this dream house, they will pass the railway line and the consultation is to be in Internet form, so they also exclude some people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not the right way to make such an investment. Minister! How many houses will be demolished? How many families will be exterminated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u420	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a matter of the Central Communication Port. The minister was supposed to change the stubble to San Francisco, and he succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, because when I read the numbers, that's it. Just like San Francisco. In other words, expenditure on government representative - PLN 4.3 million, expenditure of the company - PLN 43.6 million, the functioning of the office - PLN 4 million, business trips and representation - 400 thousand. zł, marketing services - 2,3 millions of PLN and many, many other ingredients. What's this? It's just San Francisco - only where it is, I ask, because I don't see it. [[And the stubble.]] Minister! How much did the Central Communication Port really cost so far? Where's the money and where's the results of your work, the expenses? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So far, I agree that your transfer to another ministry is actually like the transfer of a parish priest who messed up from one parish to another parish... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and the Central Communication Port should probably change its name to a central field of corruption. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u422	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Central Communication Port has rightly aroused great emotions from the very beginning. There's still a lot of water in the Vistula before the first shovel gets stuck, if it gets pushed in at all, even though you've already tried to hit it. The investment has already been delayed by 4 years, and as you can see, the government is trying to delay the investment again. A document has been presented which contains no details. How will the changes contained in it affect the financial sector? No one knows that because no analyses have been presented. The meadow remains the meadow. We still don't know how much it's gonna cost or where the government's gonna get the money for all this. What happened to the need to transfer supervision of the Central Communication Port from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy? Please respond in writing how much money has been spent so far (the bell) on this investment, including the salaries of all employees. I ask you to present all the costs and, of course, also the salaries, including the remuneration of the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u424	Please, Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u425	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Central Communication Port - after 5 years you haven't even applied for an environmental decision. For this, over the last two years, the remuneration for the board has increased almost 13 times. The remuneration for the board has increased 13 times, and that is the only fact when we are talking about CPK. Now, after these five years, without any documents, you or the government are moving this whole project from one ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure, despite the fact that we have railway, road, aviation components there, to the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you justified this: the infrastructure aspect of the construction was actually exhausted. We have a meadow, nothing was built, and you claim that the infrastructure aspect of the construction was actually exhausted. No Bareja, really like Bareja, with our money. You make jokes and jokes about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In one of your interviews, you said you'd resign in 2027 if you didn't build a CPK. Well, I'm telling you, you'll be gone by then, because there won't be a minister to guard the meadow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u426	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the law on government departments and some other laws may seem to be about improving government administration activities, but unfortunately nothing is more wrong, especially in the implementation of one ministry, the other, and perhaps another. This is really about a huge investment that is going to be the culmination of the rule of law and justice, which is why I have a question: How many ministries do you plan to move this investment to before you complete it? What about environmental consents that have not yet been applied for, and in fact, a public consultation is still underway? Finally: What measures do you expect to spend before this investment is made? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u428	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Reading the justification for this bill, you may feel that you want to strengthen the regional development department. What is regional development? These are positive quantitative, qualitative and structural changes in the economy of the region, taking place through the inspiration of the local government and local authorities within the region, with the participation of the partners of the region. What you're doing has nothing to do with regional development. It's the result. Only quarrels, conflict, a new scene of conflict in the United Right Camp. We all hear about Ziobra, but this is the new edition: Adamczyk - Horala. I do not know if the Minister knows if the Minister has given the Minister Adamczyk, what emotions accompanied, for example. in the municipality of Zabierów, when the project of Speech No. 7 was presented, which cut through the Jurassic valleys. We have such conflicts all over Poland today, because you cannot approach any investments on a system at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You start with an imposition and say, "Yes, it is, it will." That's not gonna happen, Minister. And instead of a new resort, you should be looking for a completely different job, because you're not doing very well as a watchman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u430	Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, if adopted, will cause - all this indicates - even greater confusion of competence, decision-making. It's an attempt to throw a hot potato like that out of your hands, because somebody's gonna answer for it one day. We are talking about a central airport investment that is estimated to be profitable if there are at least 24 million passengers per year. The total cost will be 46 billion. It wasn't that long ago. And now the question is whether it will be fulfilled. How many times do you have to multiply that $46 billion? Perhaps, given the efficiency of the state, a trillion zlotys will run out. At the same time, what has been done so far is also very disturbing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Delays at the first stages only it's 2.5 years, already established e.g. by NIK. A lot of things my previous speakers said here. Will this investment ever be realised? This is probably a key question, given the poor economic situation and poor forecasts for the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u433	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. At what stage is the environmental decision on the Central Communication Port? Two: How much will it cost the taxpayer's superpower office? I ask for these two answers and for them to be given in writing. But here I would like to remind one of my previous speakers - because I am from the village - that the care and protection of herds and fields or meadows is the responsibility of the shepherd, baca, juhas, so in fact, in that port it would be cheaper to carry us electronic shepherd. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u434	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u435	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! So much human harm, so much misery. You want to throw people off farms they've had for generations. You're splitting the town in half. You're causing a lot of damage to the local community. I said, why, what's the point of this? Don't answer me that the idea is to increase the possibilities of air traffic in Poland, because that's not the point. If you really wanted to do this, 50 times cheaper you could do the same by investing in the airport in Modlin. 50 times cheaper, and you make... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, Mr Modlin, I see, doesn't understand what Modlin is. It's a town near Warsaw. If you're familiar with the für Deutschland, it's very bad. Apologize to the people of Modlin. If you want to achieve this result, save the taxpayer's money, invest the money (the bell) in the airport in Modlin. Everyone will be grateful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u436	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Marcin Horala. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have also been a lot of questions and questions here, which are usually not entirely relevant to the contested law, but I will try to answer them all through deep respect for your Members. Some have repeated, so let us assume that once I have given a substantive answer to one Member, for the one who repeated the question, we will now shorten the answer. Mr Maciej Lasek. This is one of those memes that are repeated here, that the location of railway lines, roads, etc. is not known. Of course she's famous. This is decided by a strategic localization study, a document adopted 2 years ago, subjected to the biggest public consultation in Poland's history, subjected to a strategic environmental impact assessment. And in the sense that this is understood by the people we're talking about here, this location is known. Of course, what else are individual localization decisions for individual investment projects, and here we are talking about a bundle of dozens, more than 30 investment projects. For each of them this investment process is carried out as defined by Polish and EU law and at the appropriate stage appropriate decisions are taken. The cost increased tenfold as a result of the blown-up railway programme. Yeah, we blew up the railroad program. After years in which the neoliberal governments in Poland destroyed the railway, destroyed the connections, even physically started the tracks, sold the stations for other purposes. And other towns in Poland lost access to railway transport. The effect is that we have deficiencies in the infrastructure, which are still going back to the conscription times and which have not been removed so far. We have a rail system that lacks hundreds and thousands of kilometers of railway lines. If you look at it, for example. for how many cities in Poland more than 10,000. residents do not have access to railway connections at all, I reply: about 100. While e.g. in the Czech Republic, not to mention Germany, these are absolutely individual, exceptional cases. So, yeah, we want to blow up the railroad program, build almost 2,000. kilometers of new railway lines, i.e., attention, more than 20 times more than all governments built together from 1989 to 2015. No one considers that no timetable for business justification has been provided, etc. This variant, the theme of the NIK report It repeats itself many times. I am in some unfair advantage over you, because unlike you, I have read this report, not just press reports about it in opposition newspapers. If you had read this report, you would have known that NIK did not believe that there was no timetable for business justification, but that it was not included in the CPK concept. It's a method. Well, each project has a whole series of further documents, successive iterations, the first of which is this preliminary, most general concept, which later in the course of the ongoing work is refined, supplemented, further documents are created, successive stages of the investment process, so if we refer to this absolutely first stage of zero, then a whole series of issues were still not clarified, at all in the initial concept e.g. no business justification shall be provided. For example, there is a business justification. in the business plan, which it is, on the basis of it, is a yearly private investor test, which it is. Nobody has any topic concerning e.g. illegal state aid, because it is a well-run test that shows high profitability of airport investment, so just all the documents you're saying aren't there, that's really there. They were not in the preliminary concept in 2017, because that's why there is a preliminary concept to start a project so that work on these different documents can happen. Then there were also such thesis that, especially in the face of the war in Ukraine, it is some change of model from scattered to centralist, supposedly it will be possible to paralyze it with one rocket. That's what happened. Of course, there is such a thing as anti-access systems, which such strategic infrastructure weapons. If we were to argue that, maybe we should not build airports, roads, railways in Poland at all, because if we do, someone can launch a rocket and destroy it. On the other hand, in a situation where we now have the transport system we have, and nothing will be lost from it, only 2000 km of railway lines will arrive, a whole range of engineering facilities, bridges, tunnels, all over the range of directions will appear alternative connections, then of course such a transport system will be much more difficult for some shock of war activities, will have a greater redundance and the transport system of Poland will be more resistant to war threats as a result of the implementation of the Central Port of Communication program. Then the argument that supervision of the PPL is passed along with the representative of the State Airports is an extraordinary distinction. This is not an extraordinary distinction, but this is the legal status that has been in force since 2018 on the basis of universal law, when the CPK Act indicates that the Minister responsible for transport oversight of PPL fills his powers with the CPK proxy. So just as this supervision at the proxy was, it will continue to be so, and since the proxy is moving between resorts, this is also necessary to carry out this change. Here, on several occasions, Mr Obaz also referred to what I was talking about at the committee meeting, where I quoted articles from the various opposition Members, I pointed out exactly which article in Sputnik was the thesis you are now putting on, and you will not escape from it. This strategic investment programme of Poland, which in geopolitical terms is being combated by Russia, and in economic terms it is contrary to the interests of German hubs, is attacked from these directions, and you say exactly what they say about the CPK. Maybe completely independently, great minds think alike, maybe there is no inspiration here. Maybe you have similar analyses, similar interests in similar circumstances lead to similar conclusions. That's the fact. With regard to these thesis, which was also here today from the speaker, there are dozens of articles in Sputnik, which exactly repeated the thesis which you are now repeating, and that is just the case. That's a fact. I'm saying there's an objectively existing fact. You said the construction should be carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, let the government decide how to organize their work. There's no warrant for this to happen at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You have also been twisting my words from the committee many times here, saying that I said that the infrastructure dimension of this programme has run out. Of course, you forgot to add: at the level of strategic and political decisions. Because we have a location because we have designated spokes, we have a strategic location study, so those directional decisions that are to be taken within the infrastructure have already been made. Besides, there are already a number of government documents on this subject, government resolutions that have been adopted. In this dimension, of course, there is a great deal of realization work, as is the case with any investment process, while in decision-making, at government level, the burden of implementing the project is moving towards economic development, towards regional development, towards the fund, hence this change in the structure of the government. Another meme, which you repeat repeatedly, that there is not yet a request for an environmental decision. This is such a manipulation technique, because in each investment process there is a whole range of activities that are carried out in turn, also in this investment process they are carried out in turn. We are now on the eve - maybe I got a little too fast here - maybe within a few weeks a request for an environmental decision will be made. And now you're saying there's not even a request for an environmental decision. If this proposal comes up, you'll be saying, "There's not even an environmental decision." Then you'll say, there's not even a localization decision, and then there's not even a tender for the realization. In the investment process, in which there are dozens of large milestones, you can always say at Milestone No. 13: there is not even 15. It's nothing more than a erotic-manipulation technique. Mr Obaz asked what we were looking at, referring to environmental inventory, as we do not have designated corridors. I repeat, we have designated corridors. I may say this to Members who work in the Committee on Infrastructure, although it would seem that they could have this knowledge of the order of investment processes. First there is a corridor study, in this case a strategic location study, because it is for the entire transport system of Poland. On this basis, transport corridors are established. On this basis, environmental inventory is carried out, which is part of the work on STEŚ - a technical and environmental study, a multi-option which ends with the selection of an investor option for an environmental decision. So we're looking at the corridors that we're assigned to. Mr Kurzawa. There is also a question of delays. It rained three years, four years, two and a half years. I don't know where you guys come from these years. Not much, the CPK schedules are publicly available on the CPK website, so just go in, see and find out what delays are there. I answer, they're basically gone. These four years I don't know where they came from, but two years may have come from this absolutely preliminary concept, which started the project to carry out in-depth work and for example. establish specific timetables that are currently under way. There was a thesis that the airport would be empty. I'm gonna go with you, for example. No, it doesn't. The International Air Carrier Association has made an in-depth forecast of air traffic for Poland. In short, you can trust the Member or for example. IATA, Eurocontrol and a number of other air traffic forecasting institutions. I am pointing out to believe the latter, but perhaps you are an unknown expert in forecasting air traffic, which has completely different expertise here. There's a rocket thread here again, bombs. It's even in a war context, I don't know... Let us refer again to the words of General Ben Hodges - former commander-in-chief of American land troops in Europe or General Dariusz Wronski - former head of the Aeromobile and Motorized Forces in Poland. There are a whole range of people who know militaryism as in their own pocket, and they all say: CPK is also necessary in Poland from a defensive point of view. It is needed to strengthen mobility and transport, transport, logistics, etc. After internal communication lines, as well as strengthening the possibilities of rapid, rapid transfer of large tactical compounds, necessary ammunition and supplies to Poland, of course not in a war situation, but in a situation of the type: five to twelve so that war does not take place, that a potential aggressor calculating the cost-effectiveness of the assault on Poland must also take into account in this calculation that in the course of hours, not weeks, large tactical associations of allied troops or supplies for Polish troops can quickly appear in Poland. And this is an important, not the most important, not the main, but also an important aspect of the CPK investment programme. There's a thesis here about the appointment of an all-powerful attorney. The attorney has been called for a long time. First it was Mr. Nicholas Wild, and then I took over, and I have the honour to perform this function, and no one new, no more, no less powerful, will be appointed as a result of this bill. The proxy he was gonna be, he's just gonna change the resort where he's gonna be the vice minister. And no greater power than before will ever be gained. As for the idea that we're gonna create a super office, we're not gonna create an office. What's the point of talking like that? I understand that you can say things to yourself, but so completely separate from reality? There is a public bill available, everyone can read and see that such talk is nonsense, that so many employees, exactly nine, one person is just on a longer leave, working at the proxy office and will continue to work there, and nothing changes here. You ask what these people do. E.g. to respond to your serial interpellations. If you would be kind to read the answers to your interpellations and your colleagues, then maybe we wouldn't have to write answers to almost one-sounding, serially sent interpellations all the time. And in fact now one employee It's almost like he's got full-time to deal with these answers. You have the right to do so, but I encourage you not only to write interpellations, but also to read the answers. One of them works very well with the other. Mr Kaminski says that this transfer from the man Jarosław Kaczyński... I have the honour and the honor to consider myself also a man of Jarosław Kaczyński and Minister Puda is also a man of Jarosław Kaczyński, so if Mr Kaminski wants to do so, then I will say that we are moving the man of Jarosław Kaczyński from the man of Jarosław Kaczyński to the man of Jarosław Kaczyński. I've already referred to many of them in the NIK report. Here were rather quoted media reports about the report. But there's one thing, and it's really nice that it came down here. The point is that, according to NIK, for this investment to be profitable, in 2030 the port would have to handle 24.2 million passengers. According to IATA's forecast, there'll be more. So that the port will not only be profitable in the sense of going to zero, but it will be profitable, which also confirms the tests of the private investor, further business plans updated each year, because this, the airport component itself, will simply be a good and profitable investment. Nobody's accusing a feasibility study of not working out. If someone knew a little bit about infrastructure, he'd know that a feasibility study is a technical and environmental study. In the case of an airport, a feasibility study is one of the elements of a masterplan, and these documents are being developed, some of which are already very close to completion for some sections. As regards the sources of funding, this is a manipulation suspended from the fact that the multiannual financial plan in the area of public finances is adopted by 2023. This is due to the fact that in 2023 there will be a moment when the design phase will already be very advanced in relation to the implementation phase, which will begin in 2023. Therefore, the specific expenditure plan will be very strongly conditional on what will be decided at the preparatory stage and at the project stage, so it would be unreasonable to look forward so far and so closely. Now we're in a preparatory phase. We move on to the design phase, then it's executive. And what will result from the preparatory and design phase will already allow very precisely to define exactly what will be in the implementation phase. And for that time, of course, there will also be a multi-annual financial plan, adopted in due course. Mr Suchoń... It wasn't really a question, it was a thesis. I just wanted to strongly protest about one thing: that the workers have repeatedly invaded the homes. Breaking into someone's house, Mr President, is a crime, so if you know that such a crime has been committed, please report immediately to the prosecutor's office, but so precisely, please indicate by name who, when, to whom he has trespassed, or else I will consider that you are either lying or - maybe I will assign you good will - you unwittingly repeat the lies that someone has told you. [[I want you to meet with those people your friends are harassing.]] That's actually it, because there wasn't a single question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There have been many questions - this is where Mr Adamczyk asked, but the questions are all about earnings. At the same time, you are quoting the amount of these earnings, because, of course, this information is publicly available, it is in the company's reports. I understand that this is a rhetorical figure to draw some amount, because perhaps for an ordinary citizen who doesn't deal with investment processes every day - he has every right to do so - and he doesn't know how much work there is in connection with the big process and the investment programme, how many structural issues that need to be done before the shovel is inserted... Because in general, it's the start of physical work in the field that happens when the level of progress of the entire project is probably about 80%. In such a situation it will be possible, by means of those that I say so, to practice politics, and you have the right to do so. I invite you to publicly available reports, financial statements of the company. You don't have to build such rhetorical figures: unknown, we don't know, please share them with us, etc. As I say, these data are, of course, long available to the public. You know them, you get answers to the interviews. But, as I understand it, we're gonna hear a hundred more times here, which one or that we don't know... There was a thread of some CPK attorneys, i.e. in this case: for PCK, the Polish Red Cross, but I understand that this was rather about CPK in various voivodships. I don't know, frankly, what you're referring to, because there were no CPK agents in the voivodships. There are different people who talk to local governments, social dialogue. It worked until a certain point in the form of one representative for the whole region, now it is in the form of a design. The STEŚ issues have already been raised, it's about design teams. In any event, under the applicable law, non-investor-independent entities selected in a tender under the Public Procurement Law shall conduct these discussions and determine those arrangements. Is this done in the Silesian Voivodship according to the schedule? Yes, it is implemented according to the schedule. Mr Szopiński asked if the CPK was to be a military airport. No, it is not to be a military airport, but it will be as a civil airport with a government capacity higher than all existing airports in Poland. Of course, it will have an extremely important impact on the country's defence and will significantly increase our level of security not because it will be a military base, although this possibility is also possible and of course the use of dual-use will be as possible, but above all because it will give the possibility, as I said, to move quickly to Poland, much faster than today, much larger volumes of military equipment or just military units.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u438	Finish slowly, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: I'd like to answer all the questions, but okay, I'll try a little more laconically. Plenipotentiary, timetables available to the public, some thesis about utopian vision - I don't know, someone has this thesis, it's hard for me to talk about what it seems to me. Oh, the problem of displacement under extremely adverse conditions. It's interesting, because the conditions of displacement, i.e. expropriations for public investment in Poland are exactly the same as in the PO-PSL state, so if they are now extremely unfavorable, it means that in your government they were also extremely unfavorable. On the other hand, it is actually being prepared at an advanced stage of government, and we will soon have the opportunity to discuss in the Sejm, a government project that changes these, I do not think that extremely adverse, but in some cases somewhat adverse conditions for a more favourable one. The general rule is that each expropriated will get more than the market value of the expropriated property. Depending on the type, type of real estate sometimes a little bit more, sometimes, let's say 10% , sometimes 20% more, but any more than the market value of the expropriated property. Mrs Wojciechowska - amendment of the Economics Act on benefits. I understand that this is about the Real Estate Act, not about benefits, just the principle of benefit, but there will be this law, and we will discuss it. The assets sold for a priceless price after the CPK project is not realized. Of course it will be realized, but I am also a little surprised that the Sejm Member does not know such an obvious issue, a fundamental and widely known in the legal system, that if expropriation was made to public investment and the purpose of the investment was not realized, the expropriated is returned his property, which was expropriated for this purpose. This, I think, is quite common knowledge among those who have any idea of investment processes. Okay, here's another Member, that's all the thesis. Oh, the resolution on the State's Plan of Purposes was taken by the government, it's just a publication process, it takes a few days. It will be published in the relevant official publication, you will be familiar with it. Numerous thesis concerning the fact that we are supposed to have some conflict with Minister Adamczyk or that I have a bad relationship with him. I'm working very well with her. Not to judge, but from what I've heard the Minister's public statements, so will he. But thank you for taking such care of the relationship between us. I promise you, they're the best. Why do they still not know where the railroad will run? In general, the inhabitants know, because there is a designated corridor, but as for the exact course of this option - they do not know, because according to Polish law, which is based on European law, a multi-criterial analysis should be carried out in the framework of a technical and environmental study, carry out a deep consultation, environmental inventory and the process itself usually takes several years and is finalized in the choice of an investor option for environmental decision and, as the environmental decision will be, the inhabitants will already know. Will she be entitled to compensation? Of course it will be. Meeting with the residents. You're inviting me, too. I don't have a problem. I have not had dozens, but hundreds of meetings with residents, representatives of local governments, representatives of the social council. Unfortunately, I'm one poor bear, and we're building almost 2,000. km of new railway lines, i.e. the whole new transport system of the country, so of course I am not personally everywhere, but there are suitable people for this, there are entities conducting technical and environmental studies. It's hundreds, not tens, but hundreds of meetings all over the country. And it's not true that it's online. Back when it was the top of the pandemic, there were online meetings. There's always been meetings like this since the pandemic's been debilitated, repeated in form, so to speak, face is face, live, so it was one of the many additional ways of consulting. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Marcin Horała: Because this too, I stress that not only do we perform consulting duties, but also a whole range of additional information. Unfortunately, I did not have time to answer all of your questions and to address all of them. There were a lot of them, Your Marshal, so we'll try to deliver the other answers in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. And she also wanted to take the floor, I think, the rapporteur of the committee, Anna Milczanowska, right? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listened to the whole discussion, I honestly admit that sometimes laughter appeared on my lips because, as Minister Horała has repeatedly pointed out, I expected a substantive discussion from colleagues, and these so-called. The question is whether the thesis and your narration have been established for years about this meadow...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u440	Madame, I am very sorry, but you are speaking as rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u441	I'll get there, I'll get there, I'll get there...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u442	No, no, I'll be there. You speak as rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! As rapporteur, about this meadow near Baranów. Ladies and gentlemen, shame on you, maybe that's enough. I would like to remind you, because I am surprised by the opposition's behaviour, which in 2010 adopted a report on the construction of the central airport. The report was accepted, and then what were you scared of? He had to come in 2015, we won the election and we took care of the Central Communication Port. It's really enough to go to the Central Communication Port, which is what Minister Horała was talking about, where we're going to read: what is it supposed to be for, that it's not just an airport for toys made up by whom, by Horała? Ladies and gentlemen, this is to be a whole knot, a powerful knot, and you know first of all that the railroad, so connected, that within 2.5 hours. from the farthest corners of Poland we will get to just this airport. And besides, yes, it will also serve military purposes. We see what's going on. It will be built here in Central Europe, the largest airport that will be able to take on big fighter planes. [[Fighting isn't big, it's small.]] We see that we are now hub for Ukraine and humanitarian and military and military and what help we bring. We see what's going on with our neighbor, how rogue Russia invaded Ukraine. I am very sorry for the words I heard about Minister Horala. You're acting like you're... You've found yourself a mature man and treat him like a little boy to beat him, but you've heard in his statement that he knows exactly what he's doing and what his role is in terms of the role and the secretary of state and the attorney for affairs. construction of the Central Communication Port. Not so long ago, because on 4 May, the government adopted a resolution on the plan of plans and investment priorities related to the construction of the Central Communication Port and this information you can read to yourselves what this resolution concerns because I do not want to be disciplined again by the Marshal that I am not referring to the report. Ladies and gentlemen! These investments are ongoing. Those who have never worked in a local government or directly in an investment government may not know much about what a technical and environmental study means, that it is created for many sections, for many corridors. It is not that it will be created for one powerful investment, which is the Central Communication Port. It is worth reading, it is worth implementing, and everything is made available on the website of the Central Communication Port. You also have this on the website of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, you can come in, read it, it is visible. It's about the charges against Minister Horala, because they were raining yesterday, and so was today. There were a lot of liars like that. Stop lying about your salary. You know perfectly well that he does not receive remuneration for the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. So far, he's employed at the Ministry of Infrastructure. As soon as this law is adopted, he will be employed in the latter ministry. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And it's still worth knowing that it's not the Ministry of Development, because you're taking shortcuts, and you don't really know...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u444	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u445	...in which Minister Horała will continue to act as Agent for the Ministry. Central Communication Port. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u446	Thank you, Member. It turns out that the draftsman of the committee is responsible for defending the minister. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on port reception facilities from ships, print No 2237. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the Trade in Pharmacy (Prints 2114 and 2213). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u447	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think, however, that at this point the debate will not be so hot, because I have the impression that there will be full agreement in the Chamber on the need to adopt this legal solution contained in Seym Printing 2114 and 2213 respectively. In fact, as your marshal said, we are talking about a parliamentary bill amending the pharmaceutical profession law, and after the amendments adopted in the committee, the law now has a different title. It is a law on amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on the profession of pharmacist. Why did this happen, I'll explain. First of all, I wanted to thank the initiators of this short bill, because for a good cause, it's just two articles. The subject must be well known to all of you. Especially during the pandemic period, it turned out that the pharmacists, but not only them, because also pharmaceutical technicians who work in pharmacies, met with various acts of aggression directed towards them and hence the request from the pharmaceutical community to extend protection, which is already in other medical professions, to this professional group. The parliamentary initiative, then appropriate, needed amendments in committee, which were adopted by all, which clarified this initiative. Of course, the amendments adopted in cooperation with the government. What is it? We have made adjustments so that, first of all, it is clear that it is about the work of the pharmacist and about protection in relation to the work done, so that there is no doubt that only in this respect is protection allocated. However, as with other medical professions, it is important that there is no distinction that would give greater protection than other medical professions. And the other thing. As I mentioned at the beginning, and this also required a change in the title of the law, most often or in very many cases. it is not only pharmacists, but also pharmaceutical technicians who sell certain products in pharmacies and also provide advice. In this respect, the aim was also to provide this professional group with adequate safeguards and appropriate support. This is where an additional article appeared in the Act concerning this professional group. In this case, it was necessary to refer not to the pharmaceutical profession law, but to the pharmaceutical law, so that a group of professional pharmaceutical technicians could also be covered by these provisions. As I said, I think there was a full understanding - I can say that on behalf of the committee - and there was full agreement on the need for adopted regulation, which was also adopted with great satisfaction by the entire pharmaceutical community. On behalf of the committee, I have the honour to recommend that the High House adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u448	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Rychlik, the Law and Justice, will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before submitting the position of the club Law and Justice regarding the amendment of the pharmaceutical profession law and, consequently, the pharmaceutical law, I would like to begin by thanking you. I wanted to thank the ladies and gentlemen of pharmacy and pharmaceutical technicians for what they've been doing for patients since the pandemic. POZ-ets for obvious reasons have been closed in some way, their activity has been limited, so that the development of this pandemic does not affect doctors and nurses in the first place, the Poz-et employees, and the system can operate. But public drugstores remained open to a large extent and gave out drugs. I'm talking about the very beginning of the pandemic, when this enemy of the COVID-19 was undiagnosed, unknown. It was then that pharmacies, masters and pharmaceutical technicians really courageously often saved the health and life of Poles, continued their treatment, consulted their pains and simply helped them. I would like to thank you very much for this. Once again, ladies, ladies and gentlemen of the pharmaceutical industry, thank you for what you've been doing. However, in the course of the development and duration of the epidemic, there have also been - fortunately very rare, but nevertheless - situations in which pharmacies workers were at risk of violence by citizens. Therefore, this idea and this idea to make this law, this law on the profession of pharmacist, amend and give the workers pharmacies the same rights as other employees of the medical profession. As the President said, both when designing, when working on the pharmaceutical profession law, which I had the honour of being an applicant, as well as here, in the Parliamentary Committee, the work was done quickly, smoothly and in accordance. It is also important to emphasise the role of the applicants who have created this bill. Therefore, given the above conditions, but above all the role of pharmacists, which have often been forgotten and underestimated over the years, I would like to say that Law and Justice will support this amendment to the law on the profession of pharmacist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u450	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform the position of the club in relation to the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law and the law on the profession of pharmacist. The design record shall be given to the farmer performing the activities referred to in Article. 4, legal protection due to a public officer provided for in the Law of 6 June 1997 - Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers were talking about situations that were more and more common in pharmacies in relation to the pandemic. Maybe not very often, but there have been acts of violence, acts of aggression against those pharmacists who demanded compliance with the rules implemented during that period. Our club will support this bill because we think it is needed. If your marshal can, and there's some time left, I'd like to refer to tomorrow's important day. Tomorrow we have International Nurse and Obstetrics Day, so I ask you, Nurses, also your nurses, of course, because they are, as well as the midwives, to accept their wishes, to thank them for their attitude at work, for their attitude especially during the COVID period, to fulfill all their dreams, to meet all their professional successes, as well as to meet their financial expectations. I hope that such financial expectations will be met because the adoption of a new law is coming, which will decide on earnings in this environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u453	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my club's position on the committee's report in the context of prints 2114 and 2213 on behalf of the Left Club. It is about the parliamentary bill amending the law on the profession of pharmacist and the law - pharmaceutical law. My joy and my honor are all the more that I not only represent my club, but also represent the applicants of this project. At this point I would very, very much like to thank everyone - from right to left - for the fact that in a really big consensus, in great cooperation with the Ministry of Health, this very necessary project has been developed and the project is extremely needed. The project is needed because the last few months have shown that this enormous involvement of pharmacists in the vaccination campaign meets occasionally with misunderstanding. Polish farmers in large numbers joined the vaccination campaign. To this day, Polish pharmacists have vaccinated over 2 million people against the coronavirus. Thousands of people have already been vaccinated against influenza in pharmacies. This means that our pharmacists, our pharmacists, have really done their best and have been very strongly involved, as have other medical professions, in countering pandemics and reducing the effects of this pandemic. I would also like to thank all pharmacists, the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, but also the Lower Silesian Pharmacy Chamber - today at the gallery is the president of the Lower Silesian Pharmacy Chamber, Mr Marcin Replewicz - for his extraordinary help in developing this project. In fact, this project ends with some injustice, and I would even use words of discrimination or equal treatment, because if we look at other laws governing medical professions, then doctors and doctors, and nurses and dentists, and medical rescuers, and even those who provide first aid, they are protected at the time of this assistance, as are public officials. To this day, pharmacists, pharmacists, pharmaceutical technicians didn't have that kind of protection, and they deserve that kind of protection. Why? Because these last months have shown that the destruction of pharmacies, criminal threats, physical violence, verbal violence is something that unfortunately begins to enter into the everyday life of the Polish apothecary. Coronavirus epidemic only emphasized these disgraceful behaviors. Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists for many years have been struggling with this kind of aggression from aggressive patients who demanded, for example. Intoxicants. In fact, this law, whether adopted or developed, drawn up in a great political consensus, is today a sign that, when it comes to important matters, we can communicate on important issues, we can get along. I would also like to thank President Latos very much for his smooth running of the committee, for putting in place such an atmosphere of agreement and consensus, because this is an apolitical matter. Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmacists, Polish pharmaceutical technicians have different views, vote for PiS, vote for Left, vote for Platform, PSL, for many other groups, so this law will protect every apothecary who engages in its activities democratically. This is a very important matter for them, a very symbolic matter. If someone today thinks about imposing a criminal threat, physical violence against a Polish pharmacist, he will have to be aware that such a crime, such a criminal act will be prosecuted from the office, and the penalty for such an act will be up to a maximum of 3 years of imprisonment. At this point, I would very, very much like to thank all the pharmacists, all the pharmacists, for their enormous commitment to fighting the pandemic. Many of us took their second or third dose of vaccination just at the pharmacy. I am one of these people and on behalf of my constituents, on behalf of the Polish Sejm, thank you very much for your commitment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is our token of gratitude for your commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u454	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u455	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland has the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the profession of pharmacist. The proposed changes are important and necessary changes. Especially in the face of the pandemic, we have had the opportunity to observe how health workers are exposed to unnecessary aggression. In the case of pharmacists and pharmacists, this change is needed. We hope that it will eliminate the attacks on these professional groups and take special care of them at work. It is worth noting that the proposed amendments are also supported by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, which is the voice of pharmacists and pharmacist technicians in the public debate. This is because we are talking about the safety of people who operate in the health system, and who have recently been exposed by various extreme groups to various attacks and harassments. The experience gained should lead to reflection on how we can ensure protection for professionals exposed to potential risks, while at the same time systematically and in the national field involved in the fight against the epidemic. Finally, on the one hand, the possibility of vaccination against COVID-19 was extended, but at the same time it did not provide adequate protection for those carrying out these tasks. If the technicians of pharmacists and pharmacists were treated as public officials in the performance of their duties, they would certainly carry out their duties without unnecessary stress. Here also thanks to all pharmacists. In fact, they may not work directly in the hospital. Of course, we also have hospital pharmacies and there the pharmacists during the pandemic did everything they could to get the drugs delivered on time, to get on their head, and that was the case. Here's a big thank you to them. But they also did everything they could in pharmacies so that patients could get their meds, and they were actually put at risk by different groups. So that we believe that, in particular in such situations, the protection of vulnerable professions should be extended. Hence, the Polish Coalition Club will support the law introduced by the Left Club, together with the amendments after the meeting of the Health Committee and will vote in favour of further proceeding on the bill at the Sejm meeting. Like President Miller, I also wanted to make the most heartfelt wishes... Tomorrow is nurse and midwife day, but indeed what you do deserves to be appreciated. Happy birthday to you tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u456	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u457	In a column, Luke used a parable of tyranny, which set laws according to what happened to him. E.g. When he burned himself with tea, he immediately issued regulations on the safety of drinking hot drinks. And that is, unfortunately, the level of our political class from right to left, except for the Confederation: the mediation of writing laws to the rhythm of various noisy articles in newspapers. After all, only a few cases of aggression against pharmacists were needed to make the hysterical Left feel that we have not enough regulations in Poland, and that the hysterical government would support it, not entirely, because the Attorney General fortunately kept a fairly sober opinion. We are on our best way to bring about rapid inflation not only for the gold at this moment, but also for the protection of a public officer, because first, in an absurd, completely thoughtless way, you gave special protection to the doctors, and now - it was easy to predict that this would happen - the question arises why not the next group. Don't farmers deserve the same protection? Who dares to answer such a question that they do not deserve? But don't hard-working cashiers in markets deserve protection? Aren't they sometimes exposed to customers' anger? Don't taxi drivers deserve it? And the ticket controllers? Is there anyone at all who doesn't deserve such protection? I think the most vulnerable professional groups are cashiers in night shops and strippers. Go ahead. This is ridiculous, listen up. You're the stupid rules that created a conflict situation, making one citizen watch the other wear some funny masks in stores or pharmacies. It's your fault. You're the ones who wanted to implement the vaccination force, causing a conflict. You're the ones who put people on each other, you're the ones who've been sniffing at each other. You're the ones who put them in unnecessary danger, scaring off the paramedics and the ridiculous punishments that they're gonna let others. breathe normally, not through a rag. All you had to do was not hurt, and now you're trying to play the part of the peacekeeper in the conflict that you created. But this COVID war is over for good luck. There's a real war coming, and you guys are gonna get away with this fake war with people without masks or vaccinations. Therefore, there is no reason to expect such situations to escalate on a large scale. I would also point out that such regulations have consequences. If the Left wants to give the apothecaries protection due to the officers today, he'll bill tomorrow and begin to require the duties of an officer as well. After all, when we defend the apothecary clause, we say that the pharmacy is a private company and the pharmacist can sell what he thinks in it because he is not an officer, he is an entrepreneur. But now that they're in power, they're gonna say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Now you're gonna sell what the socialist authorities think is necessary, now you're gonna be doing the mission, not making money. We'll tell you what your margins are, what your assortment is. And a little bit of that right then (the bell) will be. So stop assuming that you will rule forever, gentlemen of the PiS, start creating a law that will also be good if you do not decide to apply it. Thank you. We're not voting for this. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u458	Thank you very much for this huxleiv vision. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think I'm the only one here who works with nurses and nurses every day, and that's why I always appreciate their work. However, since it's a holiday, I join my wishes because they are absolutely due. [[Applause]] A doctor is entitled to legal protection similar to that of a public official when he provides health services that save lives in an institution that has a contract with a public payer. The nurse has statutory and later legal protection even to a wider extent, connected with everyday work, and well, let them be safer even in their senses. Each professional self-government tries to expand its powers in a respectable way, including increasing the security of its members. It's understandable. There have been incidents during the pandemic affecting the safety of pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians. Therefore, near Poland 2050 will of course not be opposed to the parliamentary bill amending the law on the profession of pharmacist introducing legal protection similar to the protection available to public officers. However, the legal protection provision itself is not the main tool for preventing incidents of this type such as those that have occurred. A truly effective way to prevent deplorable and stigmatized attacks on health workers, including pharmacists, requires a long-term strategy and educational and promotional work. The main reason for the attacks during the pandemic was ignorance. The cure for all ignorance is education, starting from kindergarten, through education in all schools. The second element that educates society as a whole is the well-managed promotion of health-promoting behaviour. Yes, we need a new Committee on National Education, created in modern measure and for the preparation of wiser, future generations of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u460	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna be speeding up a little bit. I'll keep an eye on the time. We are 45 minutes late, and the deliberations are scheduled to be held by the hour. 1 a.m. So I'm going to try to do something polite, nice, and nice, to discipline a little in terms of time. We have 13 questions. Would any of you like to ask me another question? I'm closing the list. One minute to question. Here you are, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Messenger's Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical profession law is supported by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber. As there have been recent cases of aggression against pharmacists, I call for this law to be implemented as soon as possible so that the pharmacists can work safely and support not only the local community but also all those in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Member of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is also your success and your credit. I would like to thank all the members of the committee and the Minister very warmly for the positive recommendation made under this law. I am pleased that thanks to the initiative of my club, Polish pharmacists will be given proper and necessary legal care and that in this case there has been a great union around the committee, with the President at the head. Once again, I thank Mr. Tomas Latos very warmly. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to thank all Polish pharmacists very warmly for their efforts, the effort for Polish patients during the pandemic. These wishes are directed both towards masters as well as towards technicians working in all Polish pharmacies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u464	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project presented concerns the safety of pharmacists, but on this occasion I would like to ask again - because I have asked many times in interpellations - about the benefits in pharmacies available at night, Sundays and holidays. This is also definitely related to the safety of pharmacists, pharmaceutical technicians. The number of pharmaceutical Masters in Poland is definitely not sufficient. According to the regulations, pharmacy technicians can only be on duty with pharmaceutical master's, so we have a staff problem. On the other hand, the county councils, forced to carry out their obligation to organise night and holiday pharmacies, cannot fulfil this requirement because they are not their owners and employers. Pharmacy is an economic activity. Each increased number of opening hours is associated with more financial expenditure. I have questions about that. In the perspective of the Ministry of Health, does it provide for financial compensation for (the bell) pharmacies on duty at night, on Sundays and holidays? Are these on-calls expected to be financed...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u466	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u467	...even though it's from the National Health Fund? [[Applause]] I had two sentences to finish, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, you know I'm not interrupting. If I'm doing this, I promise I'll do it. I always do it in a polite and firm way. I'm sorry, miss, but you knew I would. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u469	We saved a minute. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions. The first question is how many cases a year can be when this officer's status will actually help to protect the person who works at the pharmacy properly. The second question is a little bit next to the subject. Well, there are municipalities, cities in which there is a problem with providing a nightly, festive pharmacies. Are there any changes planned in this area that will ensure such shifts anywhere in any municipality in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Messenger's Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. [[But you left me out.]] I'm so sorry. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. My fault, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes are necessary, even necessary. Pharmacies as public health institutions are part of the health system. The bill on which we are proceeding will have a positive impact on social relations, the safety of pharmacists and the safety of economic turnover. I have a question: Are there penalties in the Act for non-application of legislation that strengthens the protection and safety of pharmacists? I wanted to express my appreciation and respect for all those who work in the pharmaceutical industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u472	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir. I'm sorry I messed up a little.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good law cannot be established on the basis of false grounds. In this case, we have an attempt at general regulation based on several incidents. And the truth is that the cause of these incidents lies in the misuse of the government's social communication in the face of the crisis related to COVID, the communication in which Poles were exposed to Poles. The profession of pharmacist is not a profession which, compared to the medical profession, is based on direct contact with the patient. The pharmacists are standing... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I regularly go to the pharmacy and I see that the pharmacists are behind wide benches in the facilities that are monitored and are much safer than the doctors who go to interventions, such as. paramedics. So the question is (the bell) whether the concept was well thought out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u474	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u475	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I, too, would like to thank all pharmacists very warmly for what they do and, above all, for taking on, as it turned out, a very risky task of vaccination at the pharmacy. I myself was vaccinated with a third dose at the pharmacy. Really chapeau bass that they took on such a risky task. I have the following question for the Minister. The profession of pharmacist is precisely the profession in which the patient's contact with the pharmacist is most direct, comparing with the doctor's profession or the nurse's profession, because everyone will enter the pharmacy and not necessarily go to the hospital. How did we get away with this? But the real question is to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice: How to operate this protection...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u476	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u477	...you're just gonna get the pharmacists? I'd like some details. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, According to the legislation in force, the profession of pharmacist is an independent medical profession and pharmacy is a public health care facility, which is part of the whole health system. It was just mentioned here that many other medical professions are protected by a provision on the status of a public official. We therefore believe that this is a step in the right direction. This is not only about the assault of covid rules, but also about the assault of robberies, which can often happen. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister how many pharmacies we have in Poland and what group of people this solution will concern. I mean pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, thank the nurses, the midwives, before their holiday tomorrow. Without them, we doctors wouldn't be able to function. But this also applies to pharmacists, whom today we are increasing legal protection, as are those who perform other professions. What I'm trying to say is that it's a good thing that it's kind of over time, because I'm talking with a little bit of a snack, and we're making this bill. It is a pity that our voices have not been listened to, but it is very good that the Left project has been adopted and that, I think, it will be voted out firmly. I'm just reminding you that we're talking epidemics, vaccinations, masks. So far, there's peace -- excessive because we don't do tests, so we don't know how much disease is really there. Let's hope the epidemic doesn't come back in the fall, that the situation doesn't get worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I hope that security isn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u482	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u483	...required, given today's statements from some colleagues in the Confederation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u484	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u485	Ladies and gentlemen! Gmerata in subsequent regulations. In general, I note that in our civilization, as in all others, people are divided into children and adults. A child can be banned, ordered not to harm himself, to go in the right direction, and an adult is no longer prohibited or ordered. You can advise, and he decides, he takes responsibility for what he does. He can do anything until he violates the freedom of another human being, even by harming himself. A grown man has every right to harm himself. That's why I want to ask you if it didn't occur to you to treat people like adults, let them buy any medication from anyone on their own responsibility. Someone's gonna say you can get poisoned, take the wrong drug, and so on. Yeah, but now that someone gets a prescription and buys a drug from a legal pharmacist, they can eat the whole package and even kill themselves, but somehow it doesn't work like that. Start treating people like adults, and don't let the government deal with secreting pharmacists and non-pharmaceutians...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u486	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u487	...and counting pharmacies and what's involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u488	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a very necessary bill and I am glad that it will be adopted. I congratulate the applicant, Mr Smiszko. On the occasion, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Health if there is a chance to carry out vaccination measures against influenza in pharmacies in the following seasons. Will the pharmacists be able to issue a prescription for influenza vaccines that they will be able to vaccinate? Because we see after the success of vaccination against COVID in pharmacies the potential of this solution. It seems to me, and such voices come to us from the apothecary community, that there is some surprise that the government wants, it seems, to undo the possibility and reduce the number of influenza vaccinations. But we don't think it's worth it. Vaccination in adult pharmacies against influenza and in the longer term against other diseases is potential and it is worth taking advantage of. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u490	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u491	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support of this law in the vast majority - apart from one club. I thank all Members for their good work in the Committee on Health. As I said, this bill required minor amendments, important legislative amendments, but the essence of this law has not changed at all, i.e. techniques, and pharmacists benefit from the protection provided for by the law for a public officer under the rules set out in the Act - Penal Code in connection with the execution of activities in pharmacy or pharmacy relating to the issue of medicinal products, pharmaceutical intelligence, pharmaceutical advice or, in the case of pharmaceutical technology, other activities related to medicinal products, but related to direct contact with the patient. So that we have extended this protection not only to the pharmacist, but also to a pharmaceutical technician who performs similar tasks at a pharmacy or pharmacy and is likely to be exposed to similar aggression from his clients. I would like to thank the technicians and pharmacists, in particular, for getting involved in the vaccination process related to COVID. It was said that over 3100 pharmacists were involved in vaccination in a total of 1569 pharmacies and in the last period, in May, 17% vaccination on COVID was carried out by pharmacists in pharmacies. To answer the questions of individual Members, I will answer Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek that, of course, the Ministry supports vaccinations for COVID and influenza. The vaccinations on COVID are still in place. In the case of influenza vaccination, the vaccination period ended as it lasts from September to April. Now we have such a free period, very often there is no availability of vaccines during this period, but we have a refundable availability throughout the year. Since September 1st, the pharmacists will still be able to vaccinate both the COVID and the flu. We support flu vaccination. We plan to extend this range to all adult-related vaccinations by September. The expectation of the environment is that older people in the pneumococcal field can also be vaccinated, and that is what we plan to do. So the pharmacist, so far, would be entitled to qualify as well as to carry out vaccinations and will continue to carry out orders, prescriptions issued by doctors or authorised nurses, for influenza vaccinations. Mr Konrad Berkowicz asked why to regulate pharmaceutical marketing for particular groups at all, for pharmacies and why medical consultations at all, why pharmaceutical prescriptions, as knowledge is actually sufficient, it is enough to search the Internet, it is enough to use the Internet on its own, so you can treat yourself, buy wherever you want, on the Internet, anywhere, medicines or medicines like it. Of course, under no circumstances is the Ministry going in the direction that the Member expects. Pharmaceutical law and the pharmaceutical profession law closely supervise the entire process of production, distribution, sales and reimbursement instructions, public refunds. Why weren't those records in the pharmaceutical profession bill right away? The team that prepared the bill, in which there were people from different fields, pharmacists, other people, did not foresee this, and we did not do so. When it comes to the question of whether a pharmacist or a technician is more vulnerable than a doctor or a nurse, it is not for us to judge. We know that the doctor during the interview, during the patient's physical examination, is one in one patient, this relationship, this intimacy is very important, and knowledge is passed on. In the case of pharmacists, this relationship also begins with one in a separate room, within the framework of pharmaceutical care, where the pharmacist will conduct a pharmaceutical interview, collecting information from the patient about medicines, OTC drugs, supplements that he is taking to give an opinion on the medicinal products he is taking. The law will apply to all persons who are entitled, i.e. pharmaceutical technicians or pharmacists working in pharmacies or pharmaceutical outlets. There are nearly 15 thousand such places in total. - 13,000. pharmacies and 1800 pharmacies. It is about people who are potentially exposed to acts that are prohibited. Of course, whether there's gonna be some kind of prevention, or if there's gonna be some guidelines, about whether the pharmacist or the technician should be, I don't know, in a separate room, behind the glass, so that there's some extra rigor, requirements... There will be no such thing as there are no additional rules for other professions. We have criminal laws that protect all those listed in the medical profession. These persons shall benefit from the protection provided for public servants. We don't know exactly how many court cases there have been lately or how many will be. The whole procedure will change. The proceedings in this area will be initiated immediately. Two people were asking about the night pharmacies. Pharmaceutical technicians can't do their own night shifts because they work together with a pharmacist, they work at the same time. Pharmaceutical technicians shall not be entitled to issue all medicinal products which are issued at the pharmacy. They can spend all the products that are at the pharmacy, but when it comes to drugstores, they don't. Therefore, the presence of a pharmacist is required, who is a self-employed worker who can self-spend all medicinal products in the pharmacy. There's a bill that provides for the funding of pharmacies at night and on Christmas days. We plan that by the end of the month the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers will proceed to the next stage of the proceedings. Public funding of these shifts is foreseen from the National Health Fund. There were many thanks to both pharmacists, pharmaceutical technicians and all nurses and midwives for tomorrow's holiday. I, too, am joining all these wishes. I wish you all the best. Of course, thank you very much to all the clubs for doing so well and so well. This bill will be a success for all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u492	Thank you, Minister. Two opinions were asked by the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u493	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The situation is really so special that I have to say at least two sentences. I think that we have proved, beyond divisions, that we can work together in this House, together with smiles and mutual kindness. Thank you all for all these good words - also at my address. I would like to emphasise once again the merits of the applicants, led by Mr Smiszko, the merits of the Ministry, which took the initiative and made the appropriate corrections and the merits of all of us who have worked in accordance with this law. There were elements in this debate, and let me put it this way, slightly humorous. It turns out that there is one group that disagrees with all of us together and individually, but this also brings a certain color to the parliamentary debate. Thanks again and all the good things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u494	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises ¿Polish Public Railways (Print No.204). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u495	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law on amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises of the Polish State Railways, contained in the printing about which you mentioned the marshal. It can be said in a nutshell that it is a law which, on the one hand, is extremely embedded in the past, because it summarises the functioning in a certain aspect of the Commercialisation and Restructuring Act of the state-owned company PKP, which was adopted in 2000 and at the same time comes into the future, because it contains provisions on the increase of the envelope of the railway's local and regional infrastructure complementing railway+ ¿ up to 2028, which will certainly interest us all in this room. I hope the bill is positive. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Pursuant to the Act of 8 September 2000, which I mentioned, the commercialization and restructuring of the state-owned company PKP, PKP SA, which was founded then, was obliged to create a company of the management board of the railway - this company was named PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA - and then to equip it with the assets necessary for its operation, i.e. to maintain the construction of railway, linear infrastructure. That's what happened. Until the legal status of these properties, which consist of railway lines and other properties necessary for the management of these lines, were concluded lease agreements, leases, which are largely valid until today. As regards the summary of experience, money was, as usual, one of the key obstacles to the construction of real estate as part of railway lines. The transfer of a State-owned company into the rigor of a public limited liability company, and in principle of several public limited liability companies, made it necessary to pay all those public danins which made it costly and thus hindered the implementation of this process. We can also talk about the issue of formal legal procedures, about the legal debt arising from the times of real socialism, i.e. the lack of ordering property in terms of their ownership, description, perpetual use, all these elements, gaps in land records or discrepancies with actual state, about the need to excrete, because no one thought that this property would have to be specially treated or allocated to specific entities. This is also followed by the formalisms implemented from local government reform also by the elderly, who had to learn the procedures related to divisions, with all that is connected with it. They caused certain problems that made this process very complicated. It can be said that at that time one large import was carried out, one large real estate transfer to PKP PLK in 2005 worth about PLN 5 billion. 36,000. fixed assets that are part of the infrastructure, 16,5 thousands. km of the line, about 80%. Unregulated land was not then transferred - see paragraph 1, i.e. the debt related to inadequate care of legal ordering until 1990, as well as a little later. In the following years there were also a few fetches for a small total value of over PLN 200 million, which means that we are still dealing with the need for quite complex and long work. It is also worth to say at this point that the lack of attention to the ordering of property issues was also connected with the approach to the Polish railway. Depending on what was government policy, whether to develop or to roll up railways, it could be said that it was perfect. one can also see in the processes of ordering or emphasising the ordering of this sphere, which is extremely important, even when we look at it through this amazing policy related to the communalisation of railway areas for the benefit of local government. Dalibóg, a local government, has never had the task of carrying out its own rail transport, nor has it ever done so, but this is also the case. This must also be added to the situation with regard to taxes, tax obligations, with a slightly used exemption, which was in force between 2011 and 2012. I mention this because we are restoring a similar structure at the moment, in order to be able to settle these transactions by means of shares, which will certainly be good for strengthening the position of the State Treasury, the national infrastructure manager, but will also benefit from the tax point of view for PKP SA, i.e. it can be said that several objectives are met simultaneously. Our plan is to try, first of all, after adopting these provisions, to carry out the procedure for bringing an integrated part of the company. We're getting ready for this, we've got over 30,000. parcels prepared for this procedure, several thousand fixed assets, assets of high value, and what will be, which will not be achieved in the ZCP procedure, thinking that another ZCP will no longer be possible, will be implemented in the import procedure. Thanks to this we hope in the coming years to obtain the value of the formal order in railway real estate, not only in PKP PLK, but also in PKP LHS and PKP SKM in Tri-City, because they are such entities that we also care about. This is a clean-up of the past, and as far as the future is concerned, here is an article that deals with increasing funding for the implementation of the Rail &amp; Rail programme. In short, you can say: PLN 11 billion, 34 investments, 1200 km of railway lines. It is a programme that allows to develop the Polish railway, to develop regional connections, a programme that will prevent communication exclusion, a programme implemented jointly with local authorities who wanted to join the programme, wanted to engage in it, submitted proposals and were qualified. Thanks to this, we can double the number of money and hence the number of projects, which I am very happy about because each investment in turn is well spent money. Please accept this law kindly and efficiently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u496	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am undoubtedly honored to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position of Law and Justice against this draft law, contained in print No.204. First of all, I would like to thank the government for preparing this draft law on the commercialisation and restructuring of a state enterprise, which pursues two very important - and from the point of view, I would say state, economic but also social - objectives. First of all, first of all, it is to enable the completion of the process of restructuring property on the railways, which started 20 years ago, even during the functioning of the state-owned company of PKP. And the second key objective - said Minister Andrzej Bittel at the end of his speech - is to implement the complementary programme by 2028 of the local and regional railway infrastructure, called the Rail+ Agreement, by increasing funding from PLN 5600 million to over PLN 11 200 million. As far as the first objective is concerned, here I would draw attention to the time needed to regulate the legal status of the real estate which has been seized under the railway infrastructure in accordance with Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5th Bill. PKP S.A. gave to Polish Railway Lines both the property components consisting of railway lines and many other properties necessary for the management of railway lines. The Minister mentioned these issues of regulation. This law is, above all, in line with the basic objectives to be achieved when it comes to regulatory issues. As the Minister mentioned here, it is also worth recalling that 8, 9 years ago in the current policy of the previous government we also had a proposal to liquidate several thousand kilometers of railway lines and were thus allowed to reduce, and this is an important, property made available to Polish Railway Lines. Some of them were then excluded from the infrastructure manager, PKP PLK, to PKP SA's mother company. In order not to develop here the various threads that are contained in this section, I would like to point out the introduction of provisions concerning the possibility of the settlement of income tax on the import and the tax on rent goods and services from a contract concluded historically between PKP PLK and PKP SA in the years 2020-2026. This has economic justification, but not just tax reasons. PKP S.A. estimates that CIT on real estate and fixed assets, which have so far been eligible for the transfer, would amount to between 2300 million and 5100 million. The most important part about the very significant development of investment, in terms of first and foremost regional investment, is a concrete policy. It is also a response to many decisions of local governments connected also with financial participation of voivodships in the implementation of smaller investment projects. This increase is indeed record-breaking, more than twice, which will, of course, achieve the objective of the programme, namely to improve the rail network from the local town to the larger cities. To sum up, it is clear that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has a positive opinion on the presentation of the government (The Bell) and calls for this bill to be adopted for further work. I think, and I also hope that the project itself will be conducted here under conditions of very good substantive consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u498	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izo! Minister! You asked for kindness in the work of the bill submitted on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Company Polish State Railways and I declare this approach on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. But you didn't say you reached for good patterns. Good designs, because from 2011 to 2015 this way of regulating tax obligations has already been applied when it comes to income tax. Thus, by 2015 PKP SA was in line with its obligations with regard to VAT. Please commend the PO-PSL coalition by the way, because you're using this pattern, Minister. And that's a good pattern, good that it's being used, because restructuring needs to be completed. If we want to build a modern railroad, there must also be order from the legal side of ownership, so that the management of the lines does not raise any doubts. We will also support these solutions, which concern the increase in share capital of the Polish Railway Lines company, because we believe that the objective which has been defined, i.e. the support of investments in railway lines, in the restoration, rehabilitation of these lines, is a good goal. We will support this solution. You escaped Minister Polakzek. I wanted to take polemics with him because he doesn't remember what condition he left the railroad in - systematically demoting railway lines, systematically lowering the commercial speed of railway warehouses. This required 3 years of work to stop this trend, and from 2010-2011 the situation on the railroad began to improve. It wasn't because of Minister Polack. It was because of his successors. I would like to point out that the original law, which was adopted in 2000, was called: About commercialisation, restructuring and privatisation of the state-owned enterprises of Poland State Railways. This privatisation in part has been carried out. I would like to ask, because we have an example of a complete privatisation when it comes to PKP Energy, where we have a company that is no longer controlled by the state and is developing perfectly. And we have a second privatisation - PKP Cargo, where the state kept the control package and something like that happens that the shareholders who invested in PKP Cargo shares lose their hair, gray. I would like to ask the Minister to assess the impact of the activities undertaken by the PKP Cargo Board. We know there's been a change recently. What are the prospects for stopping this bad trend? And one more question. In 2016, you applied for the annulment of the privatisation of PKP Energetyka. What happens to this conclusion? Did you succeed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u500	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today is a little early to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Rail+ programme. I hope this will not end in the same way as in the defamation of the Living+ programme. The programme introduced in early 2020 assumed to complement local and regional railway infrastructure and envisaged the construction and reconstruction of local rail connections. The Council of Ministers has now submitted an updated programme significantly increasing the budget for this purpose from PLN 5.6 billion to over PLN 11 billion and this is a positive aspect of this project. This will make it possible to finance more investment projects. The programme is to be implemented by 2028 and, as explained, its objective is to complement the existing network with railway connections of localities above 10 000. residents who do not have access to passenger connections with voivodship cities. The amendment also provides that railway areas which are not currently being used will be re-used for transport purposes. And here's the question, Minister: Is there an analysis of such locations, and how many such sites do you want to include in the re-use of the railway infrastructure? It will also be possible to allocate funds from the Railway Fund to finance or co-finance tasks by the voivodships concerning the purchase, modernisation and repair of railway vehicles for passenger transport carried out under a public service contract. What concrete measures will these be and will they vary depending on what kind of voivodship will ask for them? We will always support the fight against communication exclusion, which unfortunately continues to operate on a huge scale in Poland. Let me remind you that the railway cannot reach nearly 100 towns over 10,000 today. residents. It can be welcomed that Rail+ is intended to help promote the development and revitalization of railway lines primarily of local importance and to stop their degradation. On this occasion, however, it is impossible not to mention the huge role of local governments, which in these difficult times for us are being harassed by the current power in order to seek further resources and fight for investment for their small homelands. This is a big deal, because without this support, this programme could not be implemented in any way. The role of self-government in the implementation of this programme is enormous and in my view it would also be important to think about reducing, i.e. supporting them in terms of 15% of issues. up to 10% the value of their shares in the investment carried out. This programme would also be complementary to the existing national railway programme and with the maintenance programme. My question concerns this complementarity, how does it present itself in the current circumstances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! Minister! PKP SA, a single-member company of the Treasury, whose sole shareholder is the Treasury, whose rights are exercised by the Minister of State Assets, is to regulate its tax obligations by transferring to the Treasury the shares of PLK SA, which it owns. The State Treasury is therefore to pay taxes to the budget in the form of shares owned by the State Treasury. We have some doubts, because in 2010 the government decided to buy PLK shares by the State Treasury from PKP SA, while in 2019 the government of the Prime Minister of Morawiecki adopted a resolution on recapitalisation of PLK with a gigantic amount of PLN 1.8 billion and a second in a row buy it out by the State Treasury from the same owner. Today in the Sejm we have a law which for the third time imposes a burden on the taxpayer on the redemption of this undertaking, and it must be remembered that in the meantime there have also been several other laws on this issue. Nevertheless, I would like to declare to the Minister the great kindness of my club when it comes to the work of regulating this law, because, of course, we are against the exclusion of communication. I would also like to ask you kindly to provide us with a detailed overview of these investment projects to be carried out. They were to be 17, now to be these investment projects 34 and are to consist in upgrading or building new railway lines. I'm asking the Minister very kindly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u504	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Tomczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act of 8 September 2000 on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company Polskie Koleje Państwowe ż will enable PKP to transfer PLK railway lines located on regulated land but requiring real estate divisions. The intention is to complement the network as well as to develop railway infrastructure. The proposed solutions include: to enable the settlement of income tax on the import and rent tax on goods and services in the years 2022-2026 to be carried out under contract D50. The value of the transfer will be valued by an independent entity specialising in valuations of companies and real estate. In view of the need to increase the share capital of PLK, it was decided to extend the period for which the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs could transfer it. public finances, at the request of the Minister responsible for transport, to PLK of fiscal securities intended for the increase of the share capital of PLK, from 2024 to 2027. Therefore, it is necessary to change the nominal value of the treasury securities in 2024. In addition, the possibility for the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs to transfer is introduced. public finances, at the request of the Minister responsible for the transport, for the financial year in question, of fiscal securities with a nominal amount greater than that specified for the financial year in question. This solution will allow for a possible response in the event of an increased need for the resources necessary for the implementation of investments in a given financial year. Many of the solutions presented in this law seem interesting. They are moving towards the development of railway infrastructure, which is why our club will vote in favour of moving this project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u507	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State ŻPolish State Railways. Dear Izbo! The proposed law aims to amend several areas. The first one concerns the improvement of the process of bringing to PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe S.A. by Polskie Koleje Państwowe S.A. parts of the property enabling the smooth management of railway infrastructure. This formula for transferring the organised part of the company, including the real estate currently in the power of PKP SA, is beneficial. This is true of tens of thousands of properties, and this is of course a large scale. Question: "Is this necessary, justified in all cases?" We don't know that. I'm sure it won't be entirely verifiable. We take the Minister's words for a good coin, but I'm sure this process will require supervision. In this area, the project also includes proposals for tax changes, which we appreciate positively. This second area, which, I think, also raises a great deal of interest, although in financial terms it seems smaller than the first one, connected with real estate, concerns the strengthening of the funding of the Rail + ̄ programme. I will immediately say that we appreciate this positively, while our concern is the evaluation process and the ranking list that was created as a result of this evaluation process. On the one hand, these projects were much more than the original amount would have indicated. Today, thanks to these changes that we have also proposed, this amount will increase. However, there are projects on this ranking list that do not have their own contribution. And here, of course, is the question of the evaluation formula, because projects with own contribution guarantees are outside the list of projects that have received funding and projects with which there is a problem because of the lack of the possibility to provide own contribution, they are on this ranking list. There's a lot more to these doubts. I'm sure that's what we'll be asking during committee meetings. Finally, this program is not so ambitious, because it talks about reaching (the bell) those towns that have 10,000. However, the inhabitants of Poland 2050 propose that the railways reach the inhabitants, to those towns that have 5 thousand inhabitants. residents. But we'll be working on the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u508	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. 24 people came to the questions. I'm closing the list. Unless one of you guys wants to join us. I can't see. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first it was supposed to be 17 investments, now it's 34, it's investment tasks, modernizations or construction of new railway lines. Minister! I have a question, I am interested in how many of these investments will be carried out in the Silesian Voivodeship, with particular attention to Będzin, Sosnowiec, Zawiercie and Dąbrowa Górnicza. If these cities are eligible and additional investments that were not planned, these surplus ones will be in these cities, I would very much ask for written information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u511	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, During the reign of the United Right, the Polish taxpayer first paid PLN 1.8 billion, financing PLK to pay again, this time much more money, for shares in this company, by reducing taxes that affect the budget. In the meantime, it's either suspended somewhere or maybe two laws have been implemented, which assumed that these shares would be bought earlier. Dear Minister, I have this kind of doubt that we do not happen to happen in this situation, that, as in the case of Polish ventilators, the Polish taxpayer buys the same property already for the third time, or perhaps even for the fourth time. On the other hand, if I could kindly ask for a list of these 34 investments. Which of them will be executed in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, I would be obliged to you. Thank you very kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Walej, Left. There isn't, right? Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many rail connections in small cities and towns have been closed down. They scare deserted stations, railway stations, and residents, instead of using green rail transport, have to cross distances by car, if of course they have them. I would like to refer to an example from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. More than 20 years ago, the connections on the railway line 281 relations Chojnice - Nakło nad Notecia were closed. It also served important local city centers: Sępólno Krajeńskie, Więcbork, Kamień Krajeński, Sośno, Koronowo from Bydgoszcz and Sępolenski districts. There has been an opportunity to use the program to restore local connections. Unfortunately, the programme assumes that local authorities are developing a planning and forecast study. Unfortunately, the cost of this task is approx. million zlotys, it is an amount that cannot be borne by 200 units of local government in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Should large infrastructure projects not be financed 100% By the state? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry have a proposal to solve this problem for self-government units? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u514	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ełk is my hometown. There used to be a very vibrant communication node in the eastern part of Mazury. Unfortunately, new times have changed and we need the Ełk-Olsztyn connection right now. Olsztyn, who is the capital of our province. The railway from Ełk to Giżycko is now electrified, while the investment is stopped further from Giżycka to Korsz due to the lack of funding. When will the call from Ełk to Olsztyn be ready? It is a significant distance, because more than 150 km. The residents are looking forward to this investment. Self-governments are unable to finance this modernisation. How many investments, Minister, will be carried out in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u517	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While the government boasts, and rightly so, an increase in the envelope for the railway+, it must be borne in mind that very many resources are lacking, namely the contribution of its own local authorities, especially the smaller ones, including those which, for example, are lacking. signed under the project of revitalisation of the railway line 177 from Raciborz to Racławice Śląskie, much needed. Own contribution 15% Project costs for 54 km of lines worth 535 million are 80 million. Raciborski, Głubczycki, Prudnicki and Baborów, Głubczyce, Głogówek, Pietrowice Wielkie and Racibórz counties simply do not have their own contribution. For them, this is a huge burden, if possible, limiting expenditure on other tasks. Although the project still has no guarantee of its own contribution (the bell), it has been notified to the final stage of the railway + ¿ phase, and for its purposes the planning study has been carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u519	Turning to the question, it is time to pay attention, Mr. Marshal, to the formal and legal barriers. Revitalization of railway lines is not the task of the local government itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u520	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u521	Does the government intend to regulate or raise the pot to 100% for small self-governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u522	Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government wants to increase the budget of the Railways programme. Development of the railroad is the right direction, good for the climate, good for people, but it is not art to spend money and not implement the program, it is art to invest these funds wisely and develop the railroad. Here's my questions. Do you know the data of the Railway Transport Office, which show that the number of passengers in 2021 has fallen by 35 million compared to the number of passengers in 2015? Is it true that the density of railway lines in 2020 has not increased either by iota compared to 2015? Will the Minister therefore agree with me that the Rail+ programme deserves at least another, but also a fine name, which much better reflects the transport and climate policy of the Law and Justice programme - the Railway programme-? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u524	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050. Mr Wieczorek said that the Member is always here. Mr Wieczorek always comments, so he is always there. That's the logic. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u525	At least we can confirm to each other that we are hard-working Members, as well as the honourable marshal. [[So do we.]] Members who are sitting here, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u526	Time flies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u527	The Minister and his colleagues, too, and above all our great secretaries, who provide us with... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u528	42 seconds. [[He's got a quick question, you can see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u529	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. Now, let's get to the point. Minister! I'd like to ask, because we're also talking about the Rail &amp; ̄ programme. This is a map. In orange it is marked in western Małopolska, in Żywiecczyn, Silesia Cieszyński and Podbeskidzie. The orange colour means that the projects have not been accepted for implementation. Why were projects in the region that were not co-financed? Second question. There's got to be something going on after the revitalized trails. The Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship (Dzinek) refused to start trains after the renovated Goleszów-Skoczów line since 1 July. Minister, why revitalize when later your people, because you're a Marshal of Law and Justice, decide not to let the trains go so people can't ride? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u531	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! At first, I'll say yes. I am very pleased that this budget will be increased. I'll even repeat with the Minister that the money spent on the railroad is money well spent. On the other hand, I would like to ask you one question. In assessing the effectiveness of projects from this programme, a minimum level of service was established. Can the Minister explain to us here, Members in the Chamber, how the financing of mergers has been guaranteed and to what extent, and to what extent, and what period of efficiency assessments, i.e. the guarantee of funding, have been established? This is really very important from the perspective of passengers, because why do we need new lines if few trains and too few trains will ride them? I hope the Minister will be kind enough to answer my question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u532	I'm sure. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, You just said, every investment in the railroad is money well spent. In general, I agree with this statement, of course. The problem, on the other hand, is that and the problem arises when you spend the money. 3.5 billion PLN cost the repair of the railway line from Lublin to Warsaw. Do you know how long the train was going before the renovation from Lublin to Warsaw? 2 hours 30 minutes. And do you know how much after the renovation? An average of 2 hours 15 minutes. For PLN 3.5 billion you accelerated the train from Lublin to Warsaw by 15 minutes. The internal report of the PKP states that there were numerous errors in the investment. And now Prime Minister Morawiecki drives around Lublin and talks about further railway investments that you want to implement. On the other hand, Minister, the aim of repairing the railway line is not the location of new, shiny tracks. The aim of repairing the railway line is to speed up trains and make (the bell) of these trains more. I wonder when you guys You'll finally understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel. I was looking out for you right now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is easy for the government to brag about increasing the funding of the Rail+ programme, worse if it is necessary to justify refusing to grant funding from this programme. The inhabitants of Podbeskidzia, Żywiecczyn and Silesia Cieszyński are very disappointed by the lack of subsidies for the two railway lines from this region, namely No 190 Bielsko-Biała - Skoczów and No 97 Żywiec - Sucha Beskidzka. For the preparation of the current documentation of the planning and forecast study, local authorities incurred high costs which could have been allocated to other investments. The people of my region want to know why these projects did not receive funding from the Railway+ programme. Will the local authorities that participated in the cost of preparing the documentation be able to count on reimbursement of the costs incurred? Minister, what's it like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You forget about the south of Poland. You're completely forgetting. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u536	Thank you. Good morning, Minister. Once again, hello to you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Good morning, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u537	Well, well, well, well. A marshal so funny? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] That he greets so many times: good morning, good morning?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u538	It's not funny, it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u539	Don't take my minutes, my seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u540	No, I'll give it back. I am smiling at you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u541	So the Minister certainly expected that if there was a railroad, I would take the floor and ask about the station program. One of the elements of the construction of the L25 line from Dębica by Mielec, Padew Narodowa to Tarnobrzeg is the location of the tracks. I was asking about the station program. For 7 years I have been working to build a train station in the Mielec station program, because the accompanying infrastructure is important. I received an answer: by 2030. The Minister said there'll be a chance, that's what we'll do. I ask: Is there a chance for a railway station in Mielec? And the other thing. Don't you view it as a vote of distrust... Already the Sejmik of the Podkarpackie Voivodship, with a Marshal from Law and Justice, wrote, adopted a resolution (The Bell) on the regeneration of certain lines, including a wide line, and included them as important investment projects. I'm not gonna ask you about the fetus, I'm gonna ask you on the committee, but I'm gonna ask you about this station program for Mielec very kindly. Maybe there'll finally be a small penny in this 5 billion to build this station. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I would like to address mostly Minister Adamczyk, whom unfortunately I do not see in the Chamber, because Minister Adamczyk thanks to the governments of the Civic Platform, and precisely thanks to the investment in the modernisation of the Kraków - Katowice line, he can reach Krakow from his family Krzeszowice in about 20 minutes. Thanks to the governments of the Platform it began, unfortunately during the reign of Minister Adamczyk it lasted and lasted many times. Many problems arose, as in the case of Wola Filipowska, but he, if he wanted, can already arrive, while some places in Małopolska are still excluded by transport, excluded by rail, such as. Olcus. It's only 40 km from Krakow, and the train takes 1.5 hours. I have reminded you of this many times, I have shown you solutions. All the time, for years, you promise it'll be, and it's not there all the time. Now, once again, you're saying it's gonna be on this project. I would like to hear once again that this line of Kraków - Olkusz will rise up, that you will certainly guarantee the means for this. If so, I hope so (the bell), then when will the tenders be announced? How will the route run and when is its implementation planned? And last question: Will these measures also include funds for the construction of the agglomeration network in Małopolska, for completion of the agglomeration network in Małopolska? Thank you. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u544	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Rail+ is an important programme to combat communication exclusion. Of the 34 planned investments, five are to be implemented in Wielkopolska. That's, among other things. Construction of the new railway line Turk - Konin, 38 km, and revitalization of the railway line Śrem - Czempin. When I am on duty - I spoke with the commune of Brodnica on Monday - I hear that the basic issue that people are worried about today is, above all, the increase in prices related to investments, performance and thus the 15% share of the local government. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether this new amount of PLN 11 billion has already been included in this price growth dynamic, whether it is planning for today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can local governments be helped? Alternatively, where are they supposed to look for additional resources as part of their participation in this programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u547	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk, Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk and Minister Andrzej Bittel here for his commitment to a very important project, namely the Rail+ railroad, with particular emphasis on Mazowsze and the Zegra-Serock project. It is worthwhile to commend and wholeheartedly support the project, which provides for an increase in the budget of the Rail+ programme from PLN 5.6 billion to over PLN 11 billion, so that 34 investment projects can be financed instead of previously planned 17. It is worth mentioning that Mazowsze is waiting for further railway impulses, for further investments and modernizations, among others. railway line to Otwock. Therefore, I would like to ask when residents of the Otwocki district can expect the modernization of the Warsaw Wawer - Otwock railway line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Member of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u549	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear Izbo! The 190 railway line took off on 1 June 1888 in the framework of the Silesian and Galician Towns Railways. It's been in operation for 120 years. In 2009, in January, the last train left from Cieszyn to Bielsk, a few months later - the last train of relations Cieszyn Polish - Cieszyn Czech. Minister, residents, i.e. nearly 1 million people have been waiting 15 years to revitalize this railway line. You promise, there were already tons of promises that this railway line would be revitalized. Today we are informed that this project was not included in the first ranking list announced by the Prime Minister. Please - and I demand a guarantee in writing, Minister - that after the increase in the pool on the railroad + that by PLN 5 billion this railway line 190 is there and has been revitalized, especially since we have already spent hundreds of millions of PLN on the regeneration of the Jumping Line - Cieszyn, which you mentioned earlier, and on this line cannot drive passenger trains because there is no second section. I ask you to implement this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u550	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u551	Minister! In Lower Silesia there is a laborious process of taking over railway lines at the hands of the PKP Group companies and none, I repeat: none as far as line No 322 is concerned. Unfortunately, there is no green light when it comes to getting trains back to Lądek-Zdrój and the Silesian Party, although local authorities, the inhabitants are fighting very actively for it. For their resources from the European Union and their own, they rebuilt beautiful historic railway stations. In the Land there is an incubator of entrepreneurship, in the Silesian Party - the center of education, tourism and culture. In both places there are secure seats for ticket machines and waiting rooms. So? Nothing, I'm afraid. It was said: as soon as possible, in 2016, in 2018, in 2019. The locals, locals, tourists, all of us were assured that the train to Lądek-Zdrój and the Silesian Party would return to the tracks. The declarations ended. The line, Minister, belongs to PKP SA and PKP PLK. I have a question: How many more years, as we hear in the answers, will they boil down property matters (The Bell) with the development of procedural paths? What's the problem? I just don't get it. After all, the local government can take over the lines from two companies. There is also nothing to prevent the transfer of the line's property to the free management of the Lower Silesian Road and Railway Service. Please respond in writing. If it is not filled with generals that we have heard for several years, it will certainly be pleased to see the people who have gathered the signatures for the petition.We have a train for the train.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u552	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u553	Minister! Public rail transport near Sněžnik is very expected and very necessary and we are very looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u554	Thank you very much, Commissioner. [[And thank you very much to the marshal.]] [[And very much, Mr. Marshal, thank you.]] 37 seconds. [[But you were...]] Now my friend Franek simply, Francis, will say: 37 seconds for me. I'm sure you will, sir. [[No, he's prepared.]] Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u555	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland's railroad, like all collective transport, needs every zloty dramatically. That is why, of course, I support the idea of the Railways programme. The problem is that it's another project of yours, just like Living + ¿, etc., which looks good only on paper. You can already see that many of the 34 projects selected by you simply will not work out, because local governments do not have money for their own contribution. And no wonder. Contribution of 15% often exceeds the entire budget of the municipality. You can see that there is a lot of interest in local governments in reactivating inactive lines, but you have to help them do so. And you're doing everything you can to make it harder for them. Local authorities should ensure a sufficient number of connections, but should not be responsible for the construction of the tracks. They just can't afford it. Development of the railways is the responsibility of the state. For the last 30 years, i.e. for 7 years of your government, PKP PLK has not built a single railway line. Zero. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, Minister, I have a question: Are you planning to reduce the level of the required contribution of your municipalities? Or how much? E.g. 5% ? Is it possible or not? Please respond in writing. Change it, get to work or stop pretending to care about public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u556	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would ask for a possible written answer, because I suspect that the question I will ask you will be a problem for you to answer right now. Could you tell me how many county towns there are no rail links at the moment? What is the largest district city that may not have such a connection? How many railway lines have been built since 1989? I'm thinking of lines that go on new tracks, not modernized ones. However, have you not considered changing the formula of Polish Railway Lines to a similar system in which the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways operates? Then there would be no need for recapitalisation, it would not be a company, it would be a body similar to the general management, simply with a specific budget. Last question, Minister, because I still have that question, and so do my friends. Well, a year ago, the E59 railway line was almost put into service on the Poznań - Rawicz section, but until today (The Bell) information boards, Minister, do not work. For a year. So I don't know, you're just gonna have to... Just by the megaphone, they're just announcing what trains are coming. And the plates are a dummy at this train station. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u558	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I represent Wielkopolska. Wielkopolska in this program received funding, a promise of funding in response to all five requests which the local government has submitted. This is, after the Silesian Voivodeship, the largest number of railway lines to be established, reactivated or re-established. But the problem is 15% own contribution. This bill raises the amount of state capital, the state contribution. On the other hand, the question which is also asked by local self-governments of voivodships is: What about the contribution of voivodship self-governments? Because the documentation was filed in November Ub. R., and since then prices have galloped. So that's the first question. Second question. As far as these five railway lines are concerned, the greatest potential seems to have a 20-kilometer section (the bell) from Śrem through Champion to Poznań. The success of the metropolitan railway in Wielkopolska, e.g. From Wągrowiec through Murowa Goślina to Poznań, he showed that people actually switch to the railroad. Then, even if there are four trains per hour during rush hour, these trains are not enough. Here it is assumed that there will be one train, one station per hour in rush hour. Isn't that enough? I have more questions, but I don't have time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u560	Thank you. You had a messenger 33 seconds more, so... [[Who? Me?]] There you go, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the final results of the Rail+ programme were announced, of course, it became clear that not all projects would receive funding. 33 projects were selected for implementation, and unfortunately 13 projects will not receive this funding, they will have to wait for their turn. My question concerns the possibility of implementing these projects if one of those which are included in the basic list fell out of the implementation. The second question concerns which of the investments in Wielkopolska will be carried out at 100%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u562	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. [[A voice from the hall: But you didn't say anything nice about Mr. Evening.]] He doesn't deserve it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u563	Oh, no, he said, he said, he said. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PKP is power, and there's no doubt about it. There is and there is a proverb: whoever has oil in his head goes to the railroad. And that's the way it is. On the other hand, I have the following question. All these property changes are aimed at introducing some transparent rules as regards the economy of PKP SA's assets and subsidiaries. The question is, do you carry out activities concerning the sale of unnecessary assets? Because I feel like there's still a lot of reserves here when it comes to PKP SA. Second thing: Do you provide for the transfer of railway lines in this respect, e.g. Voivodship local governments, which are responsible for rail transport in the voivodship? The third question, here I would ask for a written reply, because it concerns West Pomerania and Szczecin: At what stage is the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway? This is a project that was at risk (The Bell) in terms of spending money from the European Union, including. because of such, not other functioning of PKP SA and PLK SA. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u564	Thank you, sir. That was the last question. You've made me very fond of this poem: who has oil in their head, then goes to the railroad. Minister, I cordially invite you. That's how it came to me, sir, to think: and whoever has a lot to fly, he's going on a plane. What do you think of this? [[He's not flying today.]] All right. Minister, come in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u565	Thank you very much. A man doesn't feel his rhymes, does he? Thank you very much for this interesting discussion. I feel that the request for kindness has been accepted and heard. Thank you for that, because this is actually a good bill that, I think, connects us all more than divides us. He's pursuing two basic goals. The primary goal is really to organize the property situation on the Polish railway, so that there is order, order, so that it is known who is responsible for what, so that there are no obligation agreements, so that it is property, perpetual use, that everything is constructed together. This allows you to run a business, it allows you to conduct investment procedures, simplifies, simplifies, doesn't need to be determined. If there's a D50 deal, you have to ask the owner, the perpetual user, it all costs time, money. It's only a pity that it took many years to come to such a conclusion, because this system that was designed at the beginning simply prevented it. You have to be aware of it, that's how it happened, that's how it happened. Then over the years, there were experiences gathered, and good, and bad. Mr Grabarczyk is not here, so he will not hear. [[We'll pass it on.]] We are indeed taking advantage of this experience, which has been recorded in the laws adopted during the times of the Civic Platform and the PSL. It is only a pity that they were so small or, you can say, microscopically used to carry out the fetish project. That fetch was modest. Small, tiny, you can say, negligible - okay, but it was. Okay, that's all right, he was. There's no doubt about that. But it wasn't made a big step. This job that's been going on right now has been going on for a few years now. We prepare for these activities in PKP and in PLK we prepare long. There are divisions carried out, all these procedures are being carried out, which will enable large acquisitions to be made on many thousands of properties at one time, with a real commitment of a lot of forces and resources, which will be burdened by these two entities, and from the tax side - also by them. That's why we build these rules in such a way that we can settle stocks, so that this process can be closed. It is difficult to imagine that PKP SA as a taxpayer will pay public tributes worth PLN 2.5-5 billion. He'd have to make a living for it. PKP SA won't make any more money for this. There is no such possibility, there is no basis for wealth, business, to do it in one, quite short time on top, because a few years it is really a short time to prepare for this activity, it is certainly. So, of course, the taxpayer will not feel this in the sense that the settlement will take place in shares. There could be an impact on the budget and these funds could be spent on something else, but we believe that the objective of ordering is worth having such an operation after modifications, just as it was before, to carry out a much wider scale. It seems to me that this needs to be done, so that this order is put in place and that each company deals with its real estate. And property that is not assigned to the infrastructure, because it is no longer necessary for its operation, will be managed further by PKP SA and PKP SA. After all, this way of management is known and described - they can either be disposed of in tender procedures, or they can be transferred for specific purposes to the local government, or... [[That's what's different about it.]] For specific purposes of the local government. But the legislator - and the Member knows this very well - these are the rules. Not with today, not with yesterday, but with its practice of application - he predicted that he would first dispose of and then eventually transfer for a specific purpose... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And this is what we come up with, because I remind you that in the framework of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act and the Act we are talking about today, about the commercialization and restructuring of a state enterprise, which I also had the honour of presenting 3 years ago, in 2018, in 2019, we introduced provisions that prevent the sale of real estate related to... in transport corridors. Such rules have been introduced by the Government of the United Right. There was no such legislation before and it was possible to sell real estate in the corridors. Why would they do that? Because the real estate tax, because it doesn't bring income, because it's a joint stock company. We have banned such activities and introduced an opportunity - and this is also the answer to one of the questions - to pass such corridors on to the local government. And self-government can lend, even for 30 years. [[That's exactly what's not happening.]] But this must be submitted and implemented. And it is happening because the Lower Silesian government takes over such railway lines and the Member knows it very well. There's even a restored movement on some of them. [[But not where I am.]] Madam, I understand that you would like to be on a specific line. Therefore, it is necessary to report to the Lower Silesian Government and to determine this. It's not like I can manage regional governments. I wouldn't even want to do that. Self-government is a separate structure, autonomous, independent and additionally self-financing. [[But the conclusions are in the PKP.]] We in the Ministry of Infrastructure, in this process, issue an administrative decision and assure all States in this Chamber that, if such a well-founded request is made, we make such a decision. There's no problem at all. In Lower Silesia such decisions were issued as part of the control process of the railway assets. In the Mazowieckie voivodship, I personally signed a decision transferring properties under the second WKD track. Recently, the regional government boasted that it would carry out this investment. The government has forgotten, but it's just a normal everyday life. So that's what's happening. Formal legal conditions are created for this, and in order to implement such actions must be wanted by the local government. One Member states that the local government wants to take over and implement the infrastructure, and the other Member States say that this is not the task of the regional government. We've got to make up our mind about something. I am rather of the opinion, Madam President, that the local government can implement this. [[If he wants to do it, let him do it.]] I would therefore like to say that if the local authorities wanted to submit proposals in this procedure, which really lasted a long time, because there was the first pool of applications, 96, then there were analyses, conversations, questions, then really there was the development of planning and prognostic studies in order to determine the shape of this line, in agreement with the organizer, just with the management of the voivodship, which is responsible for the organisation of regional railways... As far as the parameters are concerned, we have indicated a minimum of four train pairs. Of course, I agree that we could point out more, just the question of whether at this moment we are as a state and as a local government ready to make such an effort. And the question is, is it better to start somewhere and develop it or quit. And that's also the answer to one of the questions. This is why this program was prepared to combat the exclusion of communication, to restore connections in these smaller towns, to connect them with the main metropolises of data of voivodships. And this is a competition to which the accession is voluntary, whose rules were known and laid out on the table, quite thoroughly discussed, everyone knew what they were deciding to do. If someone made a decision, filed an application, implemented simplified technical documentation, he knew what he was doing. If someone says he can't afford 15% now I understand that, because of course that's life. From the moment the application was submitted until today, something may have changed in the thinking of the local government, although I would have preferred to carry out railway projects, because they are ecological, pro-developmental, have many very positive aspects. And most of the country certainly knows that better than I do. I am sure that most of these projects will be able to provide funding by local governments, because the stage is now: a ranking list has been announced. If the country that called for it, you want to give this list in writing, then of course I will, but I encourage you to go to gov.pl, this list is there, so you can have it right away, you don't have to wait for a response from the ministry. All these entities have been informed that they have been selected for the implementation of the projects and are now to confirm it, because a statement was needed to determine it. We believe in self-government. If the local government, a widely understood applicant of these applications, says that it has the means that it is ready to sign them, then we believe the local government and do not harass it as someone here was polite to say. And such a self-government now has a job to do on its side, i.e. to accept in appropriate procedures changes in the budget, in the multiannual financial forecast, show this collateral, and then sign the implementation agreement, and consequently PKP PLK will announce tender procedures for implementation. I would also like to point out that a one-off expense of 80 million for the regional government... In fact, if you say it's 80 million, it seems like a lot of money, I agree. But if it divides into five years, then this sum isn't so superimpressive, because this program assumes the announcement of a tender, the execution of documentation and consequently the construction. Depending on how or what type This is a program, whether it's a program in which we recreate the parameters we used, whether we raise them, whether it's the construction of a new line, other procedures will be used: either shorter, simpler, or longer, more complicated, even with regard to obtaining environmental decisions, which means that this investment process will be longer. It is therefore not a one-off expense, not an annual expense, but a long-term expense that is to be planned in budgets. Of course, I would like to carry out all the projects that have been submitted, but the competition is so designed that someone qualifies and someone doesn't qualify. Of course, in a situation where a qualified local authority considers that it cannot afford to invest, does not want to invest or withdraws, then we will want to carry out further projects, because we have the amount that we would like to use as part of these investments. And it's not gonna be station investments, it's gonna be linear investments. Therefore, I do not want to talk too much about the station program right now. In answer to questions related to Elk and Olsztyn, I note that Elk station is being modernised. This will certainly be a regional connection someday. You should ask the marshal how he would like to run it, what his plan is in this regard. Wawer - Otwock is on the agenda. We carry out technical documentation, there are discussions with local governments. Warsaw East - Warsaw Wawer is in realization. Otwock - Lublin is realized. If this line is certified using ERTMS, we'll have higher speeds. Travel time will be shortened, although I would point out that, of course, only travel time is important from the passenger's point of view. But we still pay attention to safety, accessibility to freight traffic, the length of freight trains, the load capacity of the tracks. These are also extremely important elements from the point of view of the system. We will not increase the level of funding in any way. I don't have a plan for two reasons. First of all, it would be unfair in my opinion to those who took the gloves, but they gave up at some point in their conclusion, because they thought that 15% It's too much for them. Any of these entities could come and say, "If I knew it would be 5, I would ask further, I have a better idea, a better idea, better conditions I could put forward." At this stage, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna do that. And, well, it is that certain facts have happened and you have to stick to them. 15% this is the highest funding in projects, various types of competitions. 85% this is the highest finalization, i.e. one of the highest funding in projects, various competitions, which will also be effective. Because those (the bell) who won this - two more sentences, as if the marshal had allowed it, because it is often complex - these are the costs associated with the preparation of the study included in this pot and are already included in the participation, and others have to wait for the next tranche. I hope that together we will look for sources of funding for further projects in such a way as to recreate as many railway lines as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u566	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm... [[It's time to start with KPO, Minister.]] Please come to the Minister. Minister nice and kind today. The Member may come, talk. Just like the Seym, we're having conversations. [[Voice from the room: Not always.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we're nice, too. We're not screaming.]] The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company ¿Polish State Railways, contained in print No.204 to the Infrastructure Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I mean, without any malice that Mr Braun is not in the courtroom. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on port reception facilities for ship waste (prints 2223 and 2237). I would very much like to ask Mr Szałabawka to submit a report to the committee. [[We want to say goodbye to your marshal.]] Go in peace. Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Maritime Affairs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u568	The ministers are gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u569	Yes, I'm listening, Marshal. But the directors are all here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u570	Oh, good, they're here. The ministers are here. [[But they're new. Ministers change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u571	I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on port reception facilities for ship waste in view of the need to transpose Directive 2019/883 of the European Parliament and of the Council on port reception facilities for ship waste into the Polish legal order, print No 2223. The proposed regulations transpose into the Polish legal order the provisions of the EU Directive 2019/883 on port reception facilities from ships. The new law makes it necessary to repeal the existing Act of 12 September 2002 on port reception facilities and cargo residues from ships. The Act will apply to any vessel using seaports or seaports, excluding inter alia. ships engaged in public service. Fishing, historic and recreational vessels of less than 45 m length will be excluded from prior notification of waste. Compared to the existing law, the essential elements of the proposed legislation are, among other things, and here are a few: to regulate all types of waste generated on ships - so far they have not included e.g. waste related to air pollution and harmful liquid substances; clarification of the conditions to be met by port reception facilities from ships with regard to the volume of traffic in port and the possibility of selective reception of waste; clarification of the scope of the ship's master's obligation to inform port of the waste on board using the new national single point of contact system. Ports and seaports will continue to be required to develop ship waste management plans. On the other hand, the re-approval period for these plans has been extended from 3 to 5 years. This is beneficial for port managers or maritime marinas from both a financial and an administrative point of view. Ports and seaports will be required to issue appropriate receipts to shipmasters regarding the content of the waste. Seaports which only have self-service reception facilities will be exempted from the obligation to issue receipts. The new rules also regulate the fees paid by shipowners for the disposal and treatment of ship-source waste. An intermediate fee will be introduced, which will have to be paid each time ships are wrapped up in ports and marinas, regardless of the actual discharge of waste into reception facilities, which will discourage illegal discharges of waste into the sea in accordance with the principle that the charge in port will still be incurred. Ships will also have the right to pass passively caught waste without additional charges. This is an important solution for the maritime fisheries sector. The proposed rules improve ship waste management systems. The ban on waste discharges in the Baltic Sea area is one of the cornerstones of regulation adopted at both European Union and international level, i.e. International Maritime Organisation, IMO. In order to implement this approach, the Directive requires Member States to implement appropriate infrastructure and systems solutions, which are reflected in the proposed law. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sent the above draft law to the committee on 9 May 2022 in order to carry out a first reading. On 11 May the first reading of the Maritime Affairs Committee was held. During the committee's work, Members tabled four clarification amendments that were adopted. The remaining amendments of the editorial nature tabled by the Legislative Bureau were also unanimously adopted by the committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has adopted the draft law unanimously and therefore recommends that the High House adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u572	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Casper Płażyński from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u573	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear Members, We have no choice but to put these regulations into practice, because this is the introduction of a European Union directive into our legal order. The Baltic Sea Directives have not always been effective, as we know, but in this case we have no doubt that this is the right idea. 1/3 of the pollutants that come out into our sea come from shipping activities, 2/3 come from land activities, and this tightening of the screw is needed to ensure that our water, the Baltic, can also function economically, so that, for example, fishing can function in the Baltic Sea, that the sea is economically, touristly and industrially attractive. That is why these regulations need to be implemented, and pollution must be made less and less into the Baltic Sea. At the same time, this directive explicitly introduces a collection charge to the extent that the ports determine this. It is very good that these costs will not be borne by our port companies, but will only be borne by shipowners, who also through these charges will have to offset the costs associated with adapting the port infrastructure, which will have to be extended due to these new obligations, but as you know perfectly well, maritime transport has been experiencing a real hoss for several years. As far as this branch of the economy is concerned, the profits of the shipowners have been really colossal lately, so I am convinced that the shipowners will be perfectly able to handle it. So, yes, we need to support it and put it into practice. I will end with what we discussed at the Maritime Affairs Committee meeting. The subject is a bit side-by-side, but is generally related to environmental protection and the implementation of this directive. This is Russia's attitude, which is our partner in the use of the Baltic Sea, which we, the countries of the European Union, are trying very hard to take care of. As you know, those who are interested in the Baltic, Russia is at the other end when it comes to the ecological approach to these issues, and in fact, even though it has limited access to the Baltic, its coastline is not that long, it does not fully respect the different standards that we take upon ourselves. Therefore, even though the sanctions currently imposed seriously hinder Russians shipping in the Baltic Sea and docking our ports, we need to have the back of our heads when Ukraine wins the beastly attitude of the Russians in this war, defeats Moscow - and we need to remember that - before we bring the Russians back to our ports, we will have to start thinking about the requirement that they respect the environmental element of the Baltic Sea basin. There will be a good opportunity for this now or in a few months, and if the situation requires it, then also in a few years, when again it will be possible to talk civilizedly with Russia in some way. So, yes, we support this EU initiative, we think it is right. In fact, the Government of Law and Justice has supported this initiative from the outset. Therefore, yes, we will vote in favour and there is no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u574	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Borowczak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u575	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Civic Coalition on the Act on Port Equipment for Waste Receiving from Ships, print No 2223. This law is amended by the September 2006 Act. Only seemingly can the bill seem technical and invalid. Besides, the High House is not involved in the adoption of invalid laws, but at the very least is dealing with the bad ones or the good ones. The bill is very important because it concerns the protection of the environment and, in particular, the protection of marine assets against pollution and waste from ships. This Regulation implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on port reception facilities for ship waste. The government proposal for a law on port reception facilities from ships is late. We should have passed this bill a year earlier, but better late than never. It's not that big of a deal. Research has shown that as much as 30% of waste is generated by marine sources in the waters of the European Union. In addition, 12 million tons of plastic waste are estimated to be produced on ships each year and goes to seas and oceans. These data speak to us and impose on our generation an obligation to take all available measures which will radically reduce - it would be best if they eliminated - this is dramatic littering of waters. In describing the more accessible language of the proposal and the objectives of the bill, I would say that it is a matter for Member States and other signatories to the implementing rules to adapt the technical conditions to ensure that in ports different waste generated on ships can be collected in an environmentally sound manner. The ship's ban on dumping waste into the sea alone is not enough. In ports of Member States, technical and logistical conditions must be created for the collection of all types of waste from ships. The Act on port reception facilities for ship waste sets out the obligations and responsibilities of all operators for the implementation of the provisions of this Act, including in particular: the obligations of port managers to ensure access to port reception facilities for ship waste, the rules for drawing up ship waste management plans, the rules for setting fees for the maintenance and operation of port reception facilities for ship waste and the rules for supervision by maritime administrations of compliance with the provisions of the draft Act. The Act regulates the obligations and responsibilities of all entities in a clear and consistent manner with European Union law. The Civic Coalition took an active and active part in the work of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on this law. The Civic Coalition supports the adoption of a law on port reception facilities from ships and asks the High House to adopt this law. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u576	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, today is a day of maritime economy, because thanks to Mr Sawicki, we have had a lot of committee meetings today, and we are still discussing the problems of the maritime economy. I am pleased to present on behalf of the New Left a position regarding the Act on Port Equipment for the reception of waste from ships. I want to dispel my doubts at first. After the discussion at the committee meeting and probably after further discussions on the details, because a few questions undoubtedly arise here, we will, of course, support and support this bill, because this problem really needs to be resolved, but I would not be myself, the Left would not have been herself if it had not pointed out a few infirmities. First of all, it's a matter of time. I understand that there are a lot of things in the ministry, you reorganized, but let me just remind you that the time to implement this directive was until 28 June 2021. The truth is, we've had COVID, I think there's been less of this work, and actually the implementation of the directive, the drafting of the bill can be done even when we're at home. I am only paying attention to this because this is another example, so seriously, of such government actions that these directives are simply not being implemented. I think that the Prime Minister should even order a check on the implementation of EU directives in all ministries to know how many of them are being implemented. The next thing is, of course, a question of the philosophy of this law itself, and here we had a dispute with the Minister and with the representatives of the Ministry and some discussion on this subject. Indeed, environmental issues are very important. We know - and, after all, the Minister and the Ministry know very well - that the Baltic is an ecological bomb and there is no doubt about it. Besides, thanks to Mr Sawicki and the committee, we have also analysed the pollution of the Baltic Sea, what is at the bottom of it, and we have seen the costs of it. That's where he goes. From what I remember, it would take about PLN 100 billion to clear the Baltic from all these pollutants. Therefore, if pollution is to come to this, which is probably being thrown into the Baltic Sea from these ships, ferries, different yachts, it will indeed be an ecological problem. In our view, however, the law should also specify the potentially maximum costs that may be passed on to these shipowners. And here we have the answer that the directive does not allow it, but we pay attention not to pour out a baby with a bath, which is to say, in short, that ports do not earn money in this activity. The Minister has great confidence in port managers, but I think it is possible to introduce here the principle which is the case with municipal waste, where in general local governments cannot make money on municipal waste either, in other words, so they must generate compensation for waste so that it covers only costs. And don't make any extra revenue out of it. So I think we should be very careful on this issue in particular. Because it's not about making a lot of charges so that the ship owner will actually be out there somewhere at sea releasing these sewers and not coming into the port, because that's exactly what this is all about. So this is undoubtedly what we need to pay attention to. We also argued, we smiled a little bit, but it is up to the High House to say, because for the first time we see a provision in the law, which is supposed to be in this directive. Art. 24 states that the level of charges is set in such a way as not to discourage shipowners from using port equipment for the collection of waste from ships. It can be said that such a provision should actually be entered in any law, even in the Polish Lada. So it should be stated that taxes should be such (the bell) as not to discourage Poles and Poles from paying them. But the bill goes the right way. The key is only how the provisions of the Act will be respected and how port managements in Poland will behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u578	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u579	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna say a lot less, I'm not gonna use my time. To be honest, after 1989, and especially after the entry into the European Union, Poland has done a great deal to protect the environment. If all of us, citizens, are paying for the garbage we produce and are trying to clean up with them, if we care about our internal waters, inland waters, rivers, lakes, if most local governments are already very serious in the field of waste water treatment, then our common good, which is the internal sea of the Baltic Sea, should also be covered by the same rigors and the same regulations as for the protection of the environment on land. I think this bill goes in this direction, and for the trash left in the ports, shippers have to pay, because they produce them, transport and various services. I believe that this is not just a question of fulfilling the directive, but it is a question of our common duty to the part of Poland, which is the Baltic. It's a good thing this bill was introduced. I am not such a malcontent as Mr Supper, and I am not complaining that there is an annual delay here because, indeed, all EU legislation cannot be introduced as a matter of urgency. [[3 years.]] However, if we are already working on this today, with great agreement, as I noticed at the committee meeting, all the clubs, I hope that the third reading tomorrow will not be a problem either. My club is in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u580	Thank you very much, sir. It is good that you pointed out to Mr Evening that he is grumpy. I tell him that a lot, but he won't listen to me. I'm sure he'll stop if he listens. [[I have a problem with him on the committee.]] Sir, the Member is so outstanding that even if he is very grumpy, he must be in the Sejm, because thanks to him Poland will go from the front. [[Voice from the room: Absolutely yes.]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u581	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Yes, the protection of the Baltic Sea, the level of pollution that it has, in fact, directly affects the attractiveness of how we can use this source, let's say it to ourselves, the welfare of Poles, because without the Baltic Sea it would certainly be much harder for us. This is the kind of directive of the European Union that does not raise our great doubts, we do not see much controversy here. And it's worth the effort. Some harmonisation of standards in the area of maritime affairs is completely understandable. The fact that these economic conditions are actually going to be similar across Europe as regards the fees for these waste should not, in my opinion, raise new problems here, rather the shipowners will cope with this. So we're certainly not going to object to that. But here were also words about pollution in the Baltic Sea itself. Yeah, that's a problem I'm sure the ministry will have to deal with in the future. It also depends on what dangerous materials look like today at the bottom of the Baltic Sea, or what it is like. pollution in the bays, where it will also be a problem in the future for fish shoals. We are also responsible for nature, for the condition in which we will pass it on to the next generations. As a nation, this is also close to us. Jan Gwalbert Pawlikowski was one of the forerunners of nature conservation in Poland. Taking advantage of the opportunity and of the fact that Minister Witkowski is already with us, I would like to ask you about two things that correspond to these subjects, specifically two programmes, about the Batory ¿ programme. We know that, in the context of the war in Ukraine, the state budget has been reduced and the objectives for which specific tranches of money are going have changed. Today there are a lot of social transfers for many new residents of Poland, which makes these budget expenditures increase. Is the money secured in this regard? Is there a secure budget for the Batory project? What will be the issue of the creation of new units? Because I have heard that there may be a problem with the completion of the project, in this option - at least three, perhaps another. What is the issue of the construction schedule in this case? And the issue of the Swordsmanship programme. The increase in steel prices will certainly have an impact on the budget for this programme. Are you also securing the source of steel extraction? What about the hall, the welding machine park (The Bell) and the hull cutting at the PGZ War Shipyard? This could also affect whether this infrastructure is ready for the project. If you can't answer today, please answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u582	Thank you very much, sir. Oh, that's a good idea - in writing. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u583	Thank you very kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental draft law on port waste collection equipment from ships. Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental protection, including the Baltic waters, is an extremely important challenge. Indeed, for many years the Baltic has been a water catchment of various kinds of substances that came from industry, whether from houses. Also after World War II, ships of ammunition and various weapons were sunk there. Today, all these actions that we take as a country, as citizens, also as a European Union, to protect Baltic waters from further pollution, are extremely important. In our DNA, protecting the environment, ensuring the right level of protection is crucial not only for us, but for generations to come. Of course, the challenge is all these pollutants that are already in the Baltic waters, related - what I was talking about - to sunken ammunition or even sunken wrecks. We have repeatedly warned that these actions and also financial resources are unfortunately not sufficient to carry out the work properly. However, the directives - one of them we are implementing today in Polish law - which allow and help to protect the environment, enjoy our great support. It is also, I would say, the mobilisation of European society, of all those countries on the shores of different seas, to protect these seas for future generations. We will support this bill. It contains an extremely important one, I would say, from a practical point of view - this is what the honourable Mr Wieczorek has already said - which forces those who make these devices available to apply such rates as will not deter shipowners. And I think this is one of the key things. If we want to protect our environment, it can't be business. Our environment is in our interest, in the interests of our children, our grandchildren. If we are protecting and saving the environment today, we may be able to provide them with clean ones. And that's what we'd all wish for. Poland 2050 (The Bell) any project that favours the environment, including this one, will support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u584	Thank you very much. Nine people volunteered to ask a question. Would any of you like to turn yourself in? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. Mr Rafał Adamczyk is urgently asked to take the floor. He represents the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go, sir, the speaker is waiting for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aim of water pollution prevention is to facilitate the 2019 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on port reception facilities for ship waste. Unfortunately, that time when we should have adopted this kind of bill passed on 28 June last year. I have this question: What was the reason why you didn't take the legislative work early enough to secure the right rules that would make the garbage, especially plastic, not go to the sea and go to the right customers who will process the waste? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u586	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u587	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions for this bill. Namely the first question: Does Poland have a reliable system to control the discharge of waste from ships operating in our territorial waters? And second question: Why do ships that practically do not exist in Poland, the Navy, coastguards and other units, let's call them special, are not subject to the requirements of this law? Is the Ministry of National Defense afraid of the actions of foreign intelligence services that will convert the amount of waste into the combat capacity of our vessels, or is there any other rational explanation for this fact? I would very kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u588	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mazury - a miracle of nature. Great Masurian lakes. On the occasion of the amendment of the law, I would like to remind you that our lakes are also in very bad condition, not only Mazury. Lakes throughout the country are very polluted and a law could be needed to regulate this and would require the immediate introduction of an obligation to use waste collection facilities and charges for their use. What is the government going to do with contaminated lakes? I'm asking, by the way, since we're already talking about the environment. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u590	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u591	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question. I would also very much ask for a written reply. It's loosely related to the bill. What has the government recently taken in the European Union, or were there at all measures that would increase the Community's efforts to purify the waters of the Baltic Sea from these dangerous substances that are behind there, both in terms of war and in terms of wreckage, which are also at the bottom of the Baltic Sea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u592	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Member of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one question. I took the liberty of talking to the representatives of the port board of Szczecin-Świnoujście about this law. Indeed, it is necessary and there is no doubt that it must be implemented, and my question concerns the following: Did the Minister and the Ministry also consult with the Port Administrations on the possible expenditure to be incurred so that this law, how it will enter into force in the next three months, implement it? In short: Do you need additional funding in individual ports for infrastructure? Isn't the government planning to mobilise funds from the European Union that are intended to protect the environment in this case, if these expenditures are really needed? It is asked to improve this infrastructure in ports (the bell) by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u594	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Szałabawka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister about my colleague from the region, Mr Wieczorek, in his previous speech. What's it like with that time? But have we, as the government of law and justice, failed in terms of these deadlines? [[Voice from the room: Absolutely not.]] Because it showed that, despite the pandemic, we could have done something earlier, and I know that these directives had been neglected before, so I would very much ask for an answer. I would quickly refer to Mr Suchon's statement. I am addressing the Minister with this initiative: maybe he could finally count these wrecks and make a list of wrecks that serve the development of fauna and flora, because all the time, it is often confused. They say the wreckage that lies in the Baltic Sea is harmful to the environment. That is not entirely true, because very, very many wrecks that lie (the Bell) at the bottom of the Baltic Sea, is a refuge for flora and fauna. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u596	Thank you. Mr Kacper Płażyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[I was talking about leaking substances.]] [[That's why you have to count which are dangerous and which are good.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u597	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A word of polemic commentary on those words which had previously been said, specifically to Mr Evening's words concerning these charges. I have a completely different perspective. It is right that the directive does not set a ceiling. Why would he want to settle? Why can't ports set this maximum ceiling? After all, it is the free market that will regulate it. That's why we're building the power of our ports... Besides, we're doing quite well because the port in Gdansk is at the moment the second largest container port in the Baltic Sea, and as it goes on with the port in St. Petersburg, next year we can be first. The position of Świnoujście is also constantly growing in the ranking. So as far as the port policy of the Republic of Poland is concerned, it has been really well conducted for several years now, and I would not have such concerns, because it will settle itself. After all, other ports, Germans, etc., will also introduce this fee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A word of comment on those words about the issue of the sunken... I understand that it was about pollution, about these dangerous materials, not about wreckage, because wrecks are not bad at all. Often these are actually our Baltic corals, you might say. I don't know if Mr Szałabawka will agree with me. I just got back from the Aland Islands yesterday, where we had a meeting of the Working Group on Biodiversity and Climate Change at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. That's where we talked about this, too...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u598	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u599	I'm almost done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u600	I can see that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u601	I just wanted to say that this topic is constantly being discussed by the parliaments of the Baltic Sea States. In general, there is an idea that will be presented next month at the main plenary session of the Stockholm Conference to create a voluntary fund for the purification of the Baltic from these explosives. This is so important that international regulations do not allow Poland, which is not responsible for the fact that all this crap is there... The Russians and the Germans are responsible for this. I feel like the Germans are still...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u602	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u603	...have a minimal sense of responsibility, and I think they're going to somehow contribute to this fund, which will then help purify the Baltic. But there are various initiatives, Mrs. Fotiga's initiative...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u604	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u605	...in the European Parliament. So we are working at different levels, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u606	Mr President, let me tell you something. One and a half minutes longer, you said. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You have nothing to apologize for. [[I have no experience, Marshal.]] But you know, we both have the same ones because I don't either. But I wanted to tell you that that's why I didn't interrupt you, because it was very cool, but I should have stopped, because by the time I got there. 1 Today we have a plan and, on behalf of the Members of the PiS and other clubs, I ask you to have mercy on those people who will crawl into the platform at one o'clock. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u607	God's greetings to those who are at sea and those who are at the waterfront. Two questions. One such thing: Isn't this next implementation of the Eurokolchoz standards, whose advantages you are raising here, driving us into some cost, maybe hidden, invisible today? How much is it going to cost, and isn't it building, raising the bar of access to this market, these services? And second question. On many occasions, the Confederation raised the question of the necessity and urgency of blocking access to Poland to various garbagemen who would gladly litter Poland more than they have already done. Because this law gives rise to a very specific commitment to receive (the bell), to receive what they bring to us here, is there no concern, and is there any mechanism blocking the sneaky transport to our ports of various trash on the pretext that they have been fished out of the sea? Toxic substances, dangerous substances, which later you Poles deal with, you worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u608	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for not commenting. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Grzegorz Witkowski, politely, kindly and with great empathy, reminding that in part one can answer in writing. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u609	Thank you, Marshal, but I will try to answer orally. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2015, we considered it worth turning our faces to the sea and using the potential of Poland as a maritime Poland, therefore Polish ports, the management of seaports Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdańsk, Gdynia, and for a very short time the sea port in Elbląg thanks to the excavation through the Vistula Mierija will pursue these goals we are talking about. To answer the questions, the most important question in my opinion was why we had a potential delay. We didn't have any, ladies and gentlemen, delays. I would like to remind you that only on 22 January this year, the European Commission has issued a number of regulations implementing this directive: a regulation on the model form, a regulation on the model application for exemption from prior notification of waste, on the report on the operation and use of port facilities, on receipt of waste, on the approval of the waste management plan from ships, etc., etc. That is what Mr Braun said about this Brussels bureaucracy. I am not concerned that this directive and this transposition, which we are introducing today through your voices, will limit our functioning. Polish ports are very competitive. Polish ports are - especially in this situation, which is in the east of Ukraine, so that you know this too, because I owe you this knowledge - very helpful to our neighbours from Ukraine, in terms of grain, iron ore. I won't go into details, but they're really grateful to us for the fact that our ports can be a handicap, such a port for Odessa or a no longer existing port in Mariupol. We're not going back that way. Together with our Romanian partners, with the port in Konstanca, the second largest port in the Black Sea, we will jointly support the Ukrainian neighbours at this very difficult time, in the fight against this Bolshevik storm. The Baltic, Mr Supper, is not an environmental bomb. Please don't say such things. The Baltic is our window to the world. The Baltic is our pride, our tourist glory, our transport. It's true, there's a lot he's been talking about, and all the time... Kacper, thank you so much for supporting our ministry and our government in the international arena when it comes to wrecks, pollution, ferromagnetics. But maybe the owners would feel like taking what they left in the Baltic 60 years ago. I will not discuss with Mr Szałabawka, because he is a diver, he dives and knows everything about how all these backlogs from World War II have a positive effect on tourism. Nevertheless, the Polish state is from doing maritime transport, making money and doing business, not from doing diving tourism, etc. Szopinski asked about the Navy. As a live representative of the Ministry of National Defence, I find it difficult to relate to this. Mr Suchoń had questions, as he himself pointed out, loosely related to the subject of our case today. Oh, and, uh, Mr. Evening. Portloads. It is true, once ports, port managements, but also sea offices in Szczecin and Gdynia will have to spend money - it will not be large amounts, it will be tens of thousands of zlotys at once - to create a reporting system. This is a one-off expense, which is worthwhile because, Mr. Marshal, Poland will no longer be a Third World country when it comes to littering the Baltic Sea. Aszdod port in Israel, Casablanca in Morocco, Algiers, Saint Petersburg in Russia - I can mention - they do not have such solutions and very bad that they do not have such solutions. But we set the bar a little higher and we are in the 21st century, not the Bolsheviks - in 1917. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u610	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: What do the Bolsheviks have to do with this?]] No, let's not - I am talking to Mr Szczepański - about the Bolsheviks because we talked about the Baltic. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I thank the representatives of the Ministry. Thank you, Minister. It was nice listening to you. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the urgent government draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks (Prints No 2238 and 2240). I would very much like to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present the report of the committee (Gwar in the Chamber) and Mr Wieczorek not to disturb him. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u611	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs a report on this draft law, which is available in print no 2240. The case concerns an urgent government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. This bill was discussed in our committee, the first reading of the bill took place on 10 May. It was presented by the Minister. There has been a discussion and this draft law has been considered, making some adjustments, some changes, some clarifications that have made this project even better, is good, will actually serve and will solve the underlying problem. Because what is this bill and what problem does it solve? This is primarily a matter of work, of employment. We want to support those who come to us from Ukraine, refugees from Ukraine who are looking for work here. The Act states in its records that the Minister responsible for Information Technology will ensure the functioning of the relevant IT system. Yes, the Minister of Computerization. Someone might ask: Why was this law not considered, and why did the first reading not take place in the Commission for Digitization, but only in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs? I would like to point out that it is our committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which examines numerous draft laws relating to assistance to Ukrainian citizens, which examines numerous legal solutions in support of citizens, in the field of the general, broadly understood problems arising from conflict in this part of the world, caused by aggressive assault, invasion, barbaric invasion of Russia into Ukraine. It is in our committee that such projects are being considered. So the Marshal of the Sejm decided to send it to our committee. To put it immodestly, it is our committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, that we could say boldly, that is the leader in dealing with such projects. Thus, this project has been considered and it is precisely foreseen that the Minister responsible for IT will ensure the functioning of a special IT system. It will be a kind of platform where workers who want to work, citizens of Ukraine and employers will meet. About 500,000 are expected. people, Ukrainian citizens will probably be able to benefit from this system by responding to suggestions or job offers from over 60 000. employers. What I am quoting, of course, are numbers that will probably be difficult to verify. Some estimates need to be taken and this is what has been proposed. Users of the ICT system, i.e. people who want to look for work through this system, will have to meet one basic condition. The citizens of Ukraine will have to have a PESEL number, which is given in accordance with Article. 4. So this is the condition to be able to create a profile in this system and to find the dream or work that really meets their expectations with this system. Another issue that was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, and we pointed out very clearly that the creation of a profile, the use of this ICT system is voluntary. Perhaps it is obvious to many of us, it is the intention of the government, but also as parliamentarians, as members of the committee, we agreed that this should be a voluntary provision, that if the Ukrainian citizen wants to find a job in this way, he wants to make it easier for him to find a good job, he will be able to benefit from it. Of course, the Ukrainian citizen will be able to update the data that will be entered there and will also have the right to delete this data. The security of these personal data will, of course, be protected by the Minister for Information Technology and he will have a duty, e.g. If the user deletes its profile, the system will, of course, have to delete all data from the whole system immediately. In this system will be included, among others. data such as name, date of birth, PESEL number, age, sex, nationality, e-mail address, telephone number, education, professional qualifications and the course of employment. This is undoubtedly another bill that really supports Ukrainian citizens, which supports all Ukraine, given what is happening in its territory, that is, in this great fight against the war criminal, against Putin. Their heroism - indeed we observe that Ukraine has been defending bravely for more than 70 days. It is our duty, the duty of parliamentarians, the duty of the High House, to support the Ukrainians, to support their citizens, to support Ukraine during this difficult period. I would like to thank all those who are involved in this assistance very warmly. This is not only a government that supports these actions very strongly, which prepares the relevant legal provisions, which propose such legislative proposals, but also local authorities, are primarily small municipalities. Municipalities, small units of local government, but also counties, cities on the rights of powiats, are also local governments of voivodships. Everyone is very much involved in this help. They are also NGOs that have a huge impact on the support of refugees who come to us from Ukraine and want to find shelter here. It is above all the support, as I said, of NGOs, that the support of Polish citizens, who have opened their hearts, opened their homes and supported refugees in this way, supports Ukraine in this way. And this is very important, and I would like to thank you very warmly for that and once again to stress that this law is the one that goes against it. This law is another idea which aims to support Ukrainian citizens so that they can actually be helped to find work, because it was during individual meetings of the government party, the local government party, non-governmental organisations that were emphasized that it would be useful, it would be worth to create an information and communication system that would support Ukrainian citizens in their search for work. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I submit a draft law from print No 2240 and ask the High House to adopt and adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u612	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u613	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position on the draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and on the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens of Ukraine who came to our country, fleeing the war threat, before the war, received help in our country. In the first months, we focused on providing basic assistance in accommodation, in nutrition, in securing basic social needs. At the moment, as early as the third month when we support Ukrainians, new problems arise. There was a need to amend this law. This time the amendment concerns support for both workers of Ukrainian citizens residing in Poland and employers. It is about helping them find jobs, but it is also about helping employers find suitable workers. So far, there has been no collection of information on the professional qualifications of Ukrainian citizens, which could be used by employers to find workers with the desired profile. This project envisages the creation of an electronic system to facilitate contacts between employers and job seekers of Ukrainian citizens. This applies to war refugees, but also, as is apparent from this project, other Ukrainian citizens who legally reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The ICT system will contain various functionalities that allow, among others. for processing, i.e. introduction, collection, removal of job offers, processing, collection and removal e.g. information on qualifications, professional experience, analysis of the information contained in points 1 and 2 in order to prepare recommendations for available job vacancies. A person who is looking for a job may establish a user profile containing a set of data identifying an employee with assigned system resources. The Minister responsible for IT will allow the use of the functionality of the IT system using online services available by platforms, websites or mCitizen's application. It is worth noting that the system is voluntary. Due to the sensitivity of the data that will be collected in this system, those who choose to use the system have legally protected rights related to the protection of personal data. So this should be emphasized. It is very good that this is how the design of this system is designed. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club fully supports the adopted project, thanks the Ministry for noticing this need and preparing this project and will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u614	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u615	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition on the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. But before I go to the project itself, I have only such a request, Minister, that the next time we're updating - and that's probably soon - this bill could have gotten it sooner enough so that it could be read. Because we got it 15 minutes before the committee meeting and even our judges from the Legal Office stressed that they were unable to prepare an in-depth analysis of this project. I'm not saying this out of spite, just out of concern for the level of our legislation to be correct. As for the project itself, it is undoubtedly worthy of support, because it provides for the creation of an information and communication system which aims to facilitate the finding of work for refugees from Ukraine. It is about - it is worth noting - work in accordance with qualifications. This system will make it easier to communicate between the employer and the employee, which seems beneficial to both parties. We know that work is very important in the process of emancipating refugees, as is living or finding childcare. The system itself - and I had the opportunity by the courtesy of Minister Cieszyński to see how it would work - does not seem particularly complicated. It is worth noting - this is also what the rapporteur said - that the application and its use will be absolutely voluntary for the Ukrainian citizen. The access to data covering age, gender, education, professional qualifications and the course of employment will be given to those who post job offers, and thus to employers themselves, to those providing services related to the provision of job offers or to those providing placement services between employers and jobseekers. One thing that's very important. I have a question for the Minister. For this bill to reach its goal, an information campaign will be very important. How are you going to reach out to the Ukrainian people themselves with information that there is such a system? High Izbo! The bill is to enter into force at the time of the announcement. But as we read in the article. 3, in fact, it will be dead until the Minister on the way, as we read, finds that the ICT system can be activated, i.e. it is the minister who will determine the entry into force of the law itself. We believe that this is a misunderstanding, and that is why, Mr. Marshal, we will make an amendment to this matter. Here I am handing this amendment over to you now, Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u616	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u617	However, given that, as I said, emancipation is very important for our friends, war refugees from Ukraine, we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u618	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left has the honour to present our position towards the government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. This is another amendment of this law, which entered into force on 8 March. Since the outbreak of the war, as we know, more than 3 million Ukrainian citizens have entered Poland and today, as some estimate, some 1,600 thousand. persons. We also know that before the war, about 700,000 were legally employed in Poland. persons. Today, these people either conduct their business or operate as employed persons. The Ministry and the government, as part of the bill submitted today, are moving towards helping Ukrainians who were in Poland after 24 February, by creating an IT system enabling them to log in and create their own profile in order to find a job. Today these people are looking for a job. On the other hand, employers would have the opportunity to look for workers they need, taking into account qualifications, education and professional experience. The condition for registration and creation of the Ukrainian employee's own profile is primarily the possession of a PESEL number. So these must be the people who entered Poland after 24 February this year. At the same time, the use of this profile, as my previous speakers have already said, and the Ukrainian data placement takes place on a voluntary basis, there is no coercion in this regard. On the other hand, if the data provided, as is apparent from this law, will not be used to search for a job, they may be removed from the database by the Minister of Digitization if the person concerned is not interested in seeking a job or no one is looking for a job. According to the information we received at the committee meeting yesterday, this is supposed to be a pilot system. Today the Ministry talks about piloting, and when the system works for people from Ukraine, it may also include other Polish citizens. Perhaps it will be a comprehensive and complex system. Of course, we have doubts about the article. 3 and we will take a decision on this matter tomorrow at the committee's meeting on the amendment that you tabled. On the other hand, we hope that these profiles will be safe and that no one will be able to access this personal data in any other way. I'd like to say that my club will vote in favour of this bill. We are also waiting for a major amendment of the law, which is announced for May 20, because among others. it is also intended to cover matters relating to education. We're talking about a school year, which involves preparing schools. And that is the announcement that the main part should be about education. Of course, we hope that this law will go to the administration committee, because, as the rapporteur said, all of these laws, except one, have been examined in the administration and home affairs committee. So we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u620	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u621	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday we had a few dozen minutes to get acquainted with this bill, hence the questions I will ask will, perhaps, be obvious. They should have died yesterday, but they didn't. Question one: What will be the cost of creating this system? Question two: What is the date of creation of this system? The aspect we need to take into account in this respect is the testing of this system. On the other hand, knowing the reality of creating and providing infrastructure for information systems, which are intended to serve millions of people, such questions must fall, as when we see queues of people standing in Polish offices waiting for passports, it arises reflection, whether it will not be another law, which will only annoy people. The law is to enter into force the day after its announcement, and here there is a certain doubt: if, after the announcement, does this mean that the Minister in secret from the High House has made provision for the establishment of this system and for the construction of the infrastructure necessary for its operation. And more questions. Have employers been informed of its existence and are they prepared to use it? Who will collect data from a huge group of people from Ukraine, even if their transfer is voluntary? Have the labour offices (the bell) already received appropriate logistical support and will they be employed and trained by the designated people in the work offices? Does the government provide any means for the labour offices in this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u622	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Biernacki, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u623	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are once again working on an amendment to the bill to help refugees from Ukraine. I stress that they are usually women and children. We need to remember this and repeat it like a mantra, because evil spirits are trying to suggest that refugees from Ukraine are men who are messing up or doing something else. No, refugees are usually women because the Ukrainian State exists and stops every male person from 18 to 60 years of age at the border and withdraws to the State. We have to remember that. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present my position on the Government's print submission No. 2238, the report is contained in print No. 2240, i.e. draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. I expect that we will continue to work on this project a lot, and here I will show no more outrage. I am glad that the government is working, that the government is constantly improving this project. We must also be aware that this social element, the deep movement, will be replaced by a prolonged conflict that is continuing, in which case we also have no specific prospects for the end. Remember? It was supposed to be 75 hours - as predicted by the largest Western analysts - and Ukraine was supposed to collapse. Ukraine has not fallen, Ukraine, luckily, fights and will fight, I hope, to win. But it's the 77th day, and it's gonna last. Therefore, the state - by the state I mean the government, the parliament - must also take on more to systematise and manage this aid. The point is to draw this from the European Union, so that the Commissioner today cannot say that the Polish State has not used all the resources, because there is a dichotomy here. All the resources that we can get from the United Nations, wherever we can, we need to use them to help refugees from Ukraine. This is a good project. The bill provides for the creation of an electronic system to facilitate contacts between employers and jobseekers. As I emphasized, it's usually women, mostly. And it is also very good that this project, a system which on the one hand will work according to me, Mr Szopiński - here I am addressing Janek Szopiński - next to the system of county labour offices... This is an additional measure, a system that will work, we assume, next to it and which will, as the rapporteur said, be voluntary. What is also important, this system is being introduced quite quickly. I hope that now that we know that Ukrainians, Ukrainian refugees want to work - these women want to work, everyone who has contact with them knows that they want to work - they will have more opportunities. They'll be able to adjust their qualifications to their needs. On the other hand, Polish companies, which will be looking for employees during the summer season, will also be able to find people with high qualifications and employ them. And this is a very, very important element for us. I would also ask the Minister to provide information in this Chamber on the security of personal data, because it is important for the public to make this clear. We talked about this at the committee meeting, but it is worth that there should also be a clear formulation of this kind in this Chamber, so that Ukrainian citizens, refugees know that personal data will be very well protected and will not be used in any bad way. Because you can understand their fear, their fear of what they've been through. There's one record we're worried about. The point is, it's in art. 2 is written that it is possible that the minister may later extend the scope of this law to other spheres of life, i.e. it is so nicely formulated that it may also apply to Poles. We are aware that this programme is good, but I believe that our committee is not competent to consider a project that would cover a longer perspective and already functioned constantly among Polish citizens. We are also introducing some element of quasi-artic intelligence, because here, however, there will be a combination of certain elements, there will be contact. Combining certain needs on both sides will be done in an IT, ICT way, let's call it that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we think that nothing will happen as this project will be revised in the future and it will be decided in the digital commission whether or not to translate its action into Polish citizens. Thank you very much, High Izbo. Of course, we support this project. Mr. Marshal, respect... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u624	Thank you, Minister, sir. It was really just energizing. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u625	God bless all those in need, employers, employees! Let them search for solutions to their problems of life, and let them find them, but for God's sake, do not create such a prosthetic. Of course, the main questions that have already been raised here, and it should be repeated, are: How much will it cost? What's the contest procedure gonna be? And the cardinal question is, why? Here it is burning in this increase which has been given to all of you: and to the left, and to the left, and to the right, the Minister said several times that he feels a duty to the citizens of another country. Yeah, keep track of it. You're surprised, you don't know what you're saying. Look at the protocol. Well, I'm bringing you out of a mistake that could be a criminal delinquency mistake. You have no other responsibilities than those which the Constitution imposes on you, and we here, in this High House, are of the opinion that, yes, we agree with the sky, but with the Polish citizens, to take care of the Republic. It's mid-May. Soon there will be 3.5 million visitors, refugees who for various reasons have left their former residence. In March, in the first month, we had such data that the amount or percentage of those who were clinging to work - as my venerable colleague here hurrahmistically just diagnosed - they wanted to work was 1%. Isn't it? What's it like in April, what's it like in May? I'd like to believe it's better, but from the fact that you're building this regime's state app to associate entrepreneurs with job seekers, I'm guessing it's probably not funny. So, what, you're about to design some public works for those you're gonna get into this system? This, of course, is one big absurdity, absurdity on absurdity and absurd drive. The Confederation did not support previous projects and will not support this or any further draft law from the Ukrainian cyclec++ 2.0 turbo+. We will not support these projects not because we wish badly for people in need, but because it is not your responsibility, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen. That's not what we're supposed to be doing here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are supposed to be doing this so that employers can offer jobs, but this ICT system is not the solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u626	Thank you very much, sir. Now I invite Mr. Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It's a project we need. [[Who?]] It is good that an IT system will be created to facilitate contacts between employers and job seekers of Ukrainian citizens who have come to Poland in connection with the war, but also other Ukrainian citizens legally residing in our country, which is worth noting. Since February 24, the day of the start of the war, hundreds of thousands of refugees have been sent to Poland. Here they find help, home, work, receive comprehensive support from thousands of Poles, busy volunteers, NGOs, local governments. Every day, we all find that it is necessary, however, to provide systemic, long-term support in various areas: health, education, social policy, legislation, safety and the labour market. This project is one of the elements, I hope, of this model system, small but expected. We're looking into it as a matter of urgency. Members get used to working on last-minute projects for the Sejm. We try to understand this because solidarity, trust, community are the most important words for all of us today. And as the Minister presented at the committee meeting, the idea of creating this system was born on April 29th. It is a good thing that the minister who presented the draft at the committee meeting did not spoil it, however, with the lunar amendment, or actually with the television. This is an amendment to the Act on the support of households in connection with the change in terrestrial television broadcasting. This amendment was outside the scope, except for the statutory matter. Minister! Yesterday, through another Member, you tabled an amendment, but you did not enjoy it at all, and the withdrawal of the amendment gave reasons for contentment and decisive improvement of humor. About 2050 will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u628	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 12 questions. Would any of you like to sign up? No. I'll close the list then. I ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk to ask a question. The Left Parliamentary Club is Mr Rafał Adamczyk's home club, as I inform you. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday we had a long discussion about the support system itself in order to help the Ukrainian people look for work. The idea was that this pilot system, the program will ultimately serve Polish citizens, Poles and Poles. I have this question: By what date do you possibly anticipate that it can be used by our country's citizens in terms of helping them find their destination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u630	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u631	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project for the creation of an IT system aimed at facilitating contacts between employers and job seekers of Ukrainian citizens residing in Poland due to armed conflict is a project needed and will certainly be well received. But I'd like to ask. If we have a record that the bill is to enter into force the day after its announcement, and it is an urgent project, then when will this project actually enter into force, since it is written in the project, how does it seem in disagreement with the Polish legal practice that the implementation of this bill will belong to the Minister? After all, we will be asked when this project will enter into force. I ask the Minister to specify precisely when this project will enter into force (the bell) if it is an urgent act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u632	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u633	Then you must tell me, Minister, for how much, but also tell who. Is it already selected - I suppose it is, because of the urgency of this procedure - the company you are going to do well? It's about the company that's gonna do it, the company that's gonna keep it up, because the information systems that power mounts always stand out as low intuition as possible, and they stand out as long and long as possible, and then they patch up some holes in the system. Tell me about who you've done the pleasure of ordering this system with him, and what the cost will be, I repeat, not just the job itself, but also the operation of the system, then. That's what I'd like to know. Of course, as in socialism, not only PiS, we first create a problem (the Bell) and then solve it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u634	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Great. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. The Messenger Karolina Pavliczak prepares impatiently. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I believe that the element of professional activation of people coming to Poland because of armed conflict, or war in Ukraine, is important. Speaking of which, it's mostly about women. This employee profile is of course voluntary, so those who use it can also get out of it at any time. I wanted to ask how this IT system, the employee profile, will possibly correlate with what works in the work office system, because today people who have PESEL can also normally use the services of the labour office. In view of the above, such a question is related to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how many people have already taken up work today from those who arrived in Poland after 24 February this year.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u636	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u637	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a good project, pilot, supporting the professional activation of Ukrainian citizens. And my question is how large it is, how many people it can hold. Are all those who will come to us in the future? Can it also be dedicated in the future to our people looking for a job and in need when it comes to helping them find a job? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u638	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u639	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since February 24, 2022, more than 3,300 thousand have arrived in Poland, fleeing from the war. Ukrainian citizens. Mostly women, mostly children here looking for shelter. In order to be able to use this information system, it is required that the user has a PESEL number which is assigned in the Article mode. 4. I would like to ask the Minister for up-to-date data on how many people have received the PESEL number under Article. 4. As I said, this help is our duty. It is our duty to help those who flee the war. It is our duty to support those who escape bombs, those who hide from danger, women and children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's our duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u640	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u641	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The search for work is often a difficult process for the citizens of our country, let alone when we think of people who are in new circumstances, unknown to them, who do not know the language. Therefore, any system that makes this process easier is extremely important and valuable. So thank you for preparing this project, which introduces a tool to support Ukrainian citizens in their search for work. This system, as we have read from the project, will be made available to employers as well as to job seekers from Ukraine. We mentioned here in the debate that these citizens also use employment agencies. I have a question for the Minister: Will this ICT system also be used by institutions like the Labour Offices? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u642	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u643	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea is very good and very necessary, necessary even. I am dealing with many people, Ukrainian citizens who are looking for work directly, but we also see on social media, as some literally beg for whatever work, especially young people. Most of them are women, because men, if they're here, have no problem finding a job. The ICT system, i.e. the job base for foreigners, will certainly be multilingual, as I imagine. This is a necessary tool to help you find a job and help you find a job faster. Does the Act apply only to the assistance of Ukraine? Will other nationalities also be able to use this tool and this mediation? And will it be a system that will be reliable? Knowing from the autopsy (the bell) our system of making personal evidence, which is very often suspended, I can't imagine this system having any breaks because it's time, and time here is money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u644	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Walej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u645	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here many words have been made about the fact that this IT system will be extremely important for people fleeing the war. I have a few questions about that, too, and I'm asking you for information, for details. Will there also be information on how to nostril diplomas? How will it be possible to obtain qualifications with Ukrainian documents, so that they are translated into the Polish system here? And also the question: If this is a pilot project, could it not be extended to people who arrived from Ukraine before 24 February, because there are also situations where people who arrived earlier are also looking for a job? If the system is IT, you can also, I think, expand it to another person, because the Internet space knows no boundaries. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u646	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Just a quick question. Even the best idea, if it is to be well realized, must be supported by a good information campaign. We didn't get that information yesterday at the committee meeting, so the question is valid today. What will be the information campaign, how it is thought out, how it will be carried out, so that this good project will actually be properly implemented? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u648	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u649	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Another amendment to the law is very much needed. Problems that arise are solved on an ongoing basis. Further procedures are being improved to help refugees from Ukraine. As already mentioned, the act is piloting in Poland. I have this question: Do we have any information about similar activities in other countries of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u650	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz, to answer all the questions that have been raised, orally or later in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u651	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! With regard to the votes of your Members in turn, I would like to begin by thanking you for your numerous support for this extremely important and necessary act in our view. I will not refer to the law itself because, at the committee meeting, both Mr Tułayev and Mrs Szczurek-Żelazko and other parliamentarians have presented this law very precisely. As regards the questions and doubts of your Members, I first have the questions of Mrs Piekarska, who asked about the information campaign advertising the creation of this system, so that it would actually be effective. The fact is that in order for it to be effective, it must reach our friends from Ukraine, who today as refugees in Poland are located. Of course, such a campaign will be implemented immediately after the start of this system. We will rely, ladies and gentlemen, naturally on the government institutions that we have at our disposal, on the labour offices, also on the local governments that support this law, including employers' organisations. There was also a question from the Chamber about employers' organisations. As much as employers' organisations support this idea, because we know that the Polish economy today needs as much hands as possible to work. And here employers' organisations will also support us in promoting this project. I think that the most important tool that will help to reach the refugees themselves when it comes to advertising this system will be the fact that we have their contact details that we downloaded during the production of the PESEL number for refugees. These were obviously data containing phone numbers and e-mails. Directly through SMS or emails we will inform our friends from Ukraine who have made PESEL numbers today about the fact that such a system was created and thanks to this system they can find employment on the Polish labour market. As regards Mr Szopiński's questions, they will later repeat themselves in a wave of questions, first of all you asked the Member in his club speech who will manage the data. The data administrator will be the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. As regards the comments made by Mr Biernacki, I would indeed like to confirm the security of the data. This data will be managed similarly as other data of Polish citizens are managed. We know that absolutely in Poland we did not have any data leaks so far, there was no data scandal, no data in the Polish country was transferred into foreign hands or into wrong hands. Mr Adamczyk asked if the system would also be used for Polish citizens. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen, of course we reserve the possibility that this system will also be extended at the disposal of the citizens of the Polish state. Right now, we don't think there's such an urgent need. We know that in Poland unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union thanks to very efficient economic governments of Law and Justice. Moreover, Polish citizens also have natural employment offices and private intermediaries employing our citizens on their territory. So I don't think there's an emergency here. But, of course, we reserve this possibility, if we work it out together, we will consider that this is the need, then we will also be able to extend it to Polish citizens as much as possible in this direction. Mr Szopiński also asked when the system will be running. The system will actually be launched immediately after the implementation of the law. We're hoping the system will be running in the next 30 days. Maybe at the turn of May and June. As for Mr Braun's question, the system was created costlessly, Mr Braun. The State budget does not bear any costs because it has been developed, inter alia. in cooperation with, for example, the operator of the National Cloud and other institutions that build this system as part of assistance... [[Who?]] The operator of the National Cloud. ...mission for guests from Ukraine. Mr President, we are not the ones who are creating the problem, as if you had not noticed, because it is not the Republic of Poland that is an aggressor in Ukraine, it is the Russian Federation that attacked Ukraine, and therefore we have many visitors from Ukraine in Poland, and we are happy to host them. I would ask you not to make such comments towards the government of the Republic of Poland, because the Polish government here absolutely only helps and supports and does not create problems, Mr. As regards the questions of Mr Tomaszewski too, the system will be highly specialised as far as possible and will be dedicated to the citizens of Ukraine. That's why he's above all about it here. Work offices will remain on the sidelines as those units which primarily operate for Polish citizens, but absolutely work offices will be included in the promotion of this system. Mrs Pavlichak asked about the capacity, about the width of this system. Madam, here we do not foresee any limits on the capacity of this system. According to our data, at present, in the case of people from Ukraine who have a PESEL number, they are adults and can apply for employment, this is 515 thousand. Ukrainian citizens with Polish PESEL numbers. And we predict that about as many people can ultimately be recipients of this system, but of course we will see how this will work out in practice, how many people will be reported. We're gonna work really hard to make this number as big as possible. Because it is in the interest of both the Polish state and our guests from Ukraine, who probably would like to work as well, and we want to make it possible for them somehow. Mr Tulaev also asked about the number of PESEL numbers issued until today. Well, the number of PESEL numbers in total, which the Polish state has spent at this moment, is 1015 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to clarify some kind of innuendo, 96% people, visitors from Ukraine who received a PESEL number from the Polish country, these are women and children. So that such an appeal from the speaker to fight Russian disinformation, which tries to confuse very strongly in Poland, insinuating that these are mainly men who, instead of fighting in Ukraine, came to Poland. This is absolutely a lie, a nonsense that comes from Moscow propaganda. 96% - these are hard data - these are women and children, whom the Polish state has a Christian and also a moral duty, as I believe, to help, just as Poles were often helped somewhere. I think we'd like to be helped in this situation, too, but I hope we'll never be in it. Ukraine today is also fighting for our freedom. From this point of view, I would like to thank Ukraine warmly for this, pay my respects and assure you that the Polish state will always help a nation that has been criminally assaulted. As regards Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko's question, this system is primarily devoted to employers and intermediaries. Work offices will not be directly involved in this system. Question of Mrs Wojciechowska: Who will be the recipient of this system? First of all, refugees with PESEL numbers. Mrs Falej's question is very valuable. We will, of course, make sure that all the information -- we will, for example, nostrils diplomas -- is contained there, or at least that there are links to the relevant institutions, where such a repository of knowledge can be found, because it is indeed a very valuable direction. Mr Zimoch also asked about the information campaign. I have already answered that question, Mrs Baker. That's the campaign. I'll say it again. The most important thing is to get directly through texts, e-mails to the guests from Ukraine who gave us this data, making PESEL numbers. It's gonna be so direct. I hope that this will result in a high efficiency of the system. Mrs Banaszek asked whether there was such a wide range of action in other countries of the European Union and whether such solutions work. From our knowledge, the Polish state is currently most helpful in Ukraine, also in this institutional dimension. We do not know that such systems are installed, functioning in other European Union countries. It seems to me that at this point Poland will be a pioneer, also in terms of aid solutions in Ukraine, which we are very happy about. We are proud that the Polish state, the Polish society, the Polish government, local governments and all together as one nation today support Ukraine, which was attacked by the criminal post-communist regime, neosowiecki in Moscow, which must be fought against. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u652	Thank you very much, Minister. I have a question: Does the rapporteur still wish? We agreed for a minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u653	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would like to thank you for supporting this project, for the fact that we were able to discuss and debate together about the help that is our responsibility, which is our responsibility. Thank you to all the parliamentary clubs. I would like to remind and stress that this law received support in committee by 25 votes in favour, with 0 votes against and 9 abstentions. For this, I would like to thank you very much for your almost unanimous support for the various clubs for supporting this project. If there's anything we can do, let's do it. If there is something we can do costlessly, as in the case of this law, then let's do it. If the citizens of Ukraine gain and make it easier for them to get a job, the ICT system should be created as much as possible. Thank you very much, Marshal. There was a minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u654	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft article. 3 dates for the launch of the system and functionality will be defined by the Minister responsible for computerization by means of a communication published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. According to the Ministry, such regulation is intended to ensure flexibility of the timetable and the possibility of responding to different events on an ongoing basis. In fact, however, it is quite a simple system that has its own commercially functioning counterparts. What is the reason why this relatively simple system cannot be defined directly in the Act on the time limit for starting this relatively simple system? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u656	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Commission on the application of the plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski, represented by the legal adviser Adrian Dworzyński of 8 May 2019, supplemented on 18 June 2019, to the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Sławomir Jan Piechota (print No 2184). I would very much like to ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u657	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an obligation, but also an honour to present the report of the Rules Committee, the Posts and the Immunities, unfortunately I have to read this formula, which you also read, on the application of the plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski - here I will add: do not confuse Robert Kwiatkowski, a Member of the Sejm - represented by the legal adviser Adrian Dworzynski of 8 May 2019, supplemented on 18 June 2019, with the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Sławomir Jan Piechota. Marshal of the Sejm of the VIIIth term of office, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1b in relation to paragraph 1. 7 of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, addressed the above request to the Rules of Procedure Committee on 5 July 2019. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee, after having considered this request at its meeting on 26 April 2022 pursuant to Article 26 of the Rules of Procedure. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator submit a proposal to reject the application of the plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski of 8 May 2019, supplemented on 18 June 2019, to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. Thank you very much for your attention, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u658	Thank you very much, sir. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. Fame, do you want to speak? Yes? Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u659	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! More than four years have passed since the incident which is the basis for demanding that I be deprived of my immunity, and I would like to remind you of the most important points to be clear about a case that is now taking on such a finale. On 8 February 2018, I asked the President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities from this place, so I asked the public. I asked the public about the function of the President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which runs an institution that is extremely important to the environment for people with disabilities and has very important and huge money. My questions were inconvenient, because they dealt with matters that particularly upset PFRON employees. My information, on the basis of which I asked questions, came from the position of the Joint Committee on Solidarity in the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Well, in writing, e-mails and phone calls, I was alarmed by the fact that the fund had entered into a ten-year contract to rent rooms after railway warehouses, devastated, demoted. A 10-year fixed-term contract means that it cannot be resolved and therefore must be paid to the end. PLN 27 million. Mr. President has underestimated this amount. He claimed that for PFRON conditions, Warsaw conditions It's not a big amount. That's 2,700,000. PLN per year. That's over 200,000. PLN per month. If I told the local government or non-governmental organizations that are fighting for every 5,000. zł, 10,000. zł, 30,000. zł, that the amount of PLN 27 million is not a significant amount, it would probably surprise many of them and would be outraged. PFRON employees, looking at this, were also outraged about the conditions under which they would work. These were the rooms after the railway warehouses. I've been sent pictures of them in which they've been in a state that hasn't been used in a long time, devastated. The president of PFRON said: no problem, we will renovate. So it's probably PFRON's money again. More, these rooms were in the building on the street. Railway 19, near which there were no public transport stops. The Warsaw self-government informed that it did not foresee, because of, I do not know, the rental by PFRON of such a building in the secluded area to create special, additional stops there. So these things upset the employees, and they asked me to intervene. Could I not have intervened? Did I have the right? In my opinion, I was obliged to ask these inconvenient questions. There is another issue that I mentioned at the time. Mr. President left her out of demanding me to waive my immunity, but I'd like to remind you of her. Although this case no longer concerns so much money, it shows a certain attitude of Mr Robert Kwiatkowski as President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Well, the president thought the earlier logo of the fund was archaic, didn't agree to modern times, and announced a competition for new ones. From the information I received from the employees, it appeared that the course of this competition was at least, I would say, questionable. As a result of this competition, a new logo was selected - a flower supported by a stick. Instead of a typical official logo, where on two fields of two different colors is the big inscription of the state institution, the new logo was supported by a flower stick. Many people asked me whether this is what the attitude of the Polish state to people with disabilities is today, that it will be supported by a stick. These two things have seriously upset workers and the environment of people with disabilities. In conclusion, I would like to remind you: these two things I asked here, from the Parliamentary Speaker. I asked a public figure, running a large public institution and having very important public money. Why, then, if not from this place, should you ask such things? Where, if not here, should we demand an explanation of such matters? The patron representing Mr Robert Kwiatkowski during the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee said that it did not belong, it was not allowed to ask such things from the Seym Speaker that I should ask this with an interpellation, with some writing. It was probably just to ask so quiet that no one would hear it. In my opinion, however, it was necessary to ask this in such a way that everyone should be aware that such things are happening in the fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u660	Thank you, sir. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I wanted to tell you that I have been enjoying this for 2.5 years - I do not know what word to use - to supervise, if you don't mind, or to help, support the work of the Committee on Petitions, which you are leading. And this is fantastic cooperation, really. [[Applause]] Thank you, Fame, for this. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 May. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No, thank you. No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm setting the time to make a statement for three minutes. Come on in. Mr. Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u661	In the mode of the parliamentary statement, because here no debate about what is currently the subject of public worship can be. Only incidentally, some shooting acts are announced incidentally on the occasion of proceding various laws. You know how the roles are separated: white, black characters. And this duty that the Minister has just mentioned here. However, he insisted that he had a duty other than the Constitution imposed, other than serving the nation of Poland and the Republic of Poland's brightest. And in this context, the attack on the foreign ambassador and today's obvious repercussions, the revolution in Moscow - an attack on the Polish embassy. Ladies and gentlemen, how simple and how simple things can be misunderstood. That's why the civilized world invented the rules of diplomatic play so we could have diplomacy, not necessarily escalation. And that's the choice we're facing. If someone doesn't understand that condemning barbarism, which is assaulting an accredited diplomat... [[Tossing people in intervention is barbaric.]] Even now, one of those here is broadcasting that he does not understand that it is not a defense of this or another ambassador or another diplomat, but it is a defence of the rules exactly, and if someone does not understand it, then probably neither in the mode of the parliamentary statement nor in any other mode will we explain it any more. List of Russian ambassadors in foreign countries. It reminds me of the outstanding canon writer Gribojedow, torn apart by a mob in Tehran in 1829 - it is a note bene contexts of the origins of the November Uprising, interesting things. Mr Wojkow, shot Bolshevik, this one was a murderer. Historians attribute to him the accomplice of murder to the family of the Tsar, a particularly disgusting murder, but yet we do not shoot ambassadors, and who tolerates such things, then he must endure repercussions. So, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, let us call for rules. About rules, because if (the bell) we follow the principle of tooth for tooth in international politics, it may not be enough for these teeth quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u662	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Parliamentary Club Left. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] And great. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050, probably a club in the future, which I wish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u663	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's supposed to be a hot political night, but let's get away from politics for a second. I'd like to bow down to what they're celebrating tomorrow, actually, in a few dozen minutes. A lot of people in the group of 300,000. Nurses and nurses will spend the first hour of the day on the night shift. We meet them almost every day. They accompany us in difficult times, but they also witness joyful experiences. Underrated, underpaid. We often minimize their role. They resign because of low wages, poor organisational conditions, and their competences are underestimated. In the Health Programme, Poland 2050 recalls that nearly 5 years ago, the European Union co-financed project developed a strategy for the development of nursing and obstetrics in Poland. In 2019 the Council of Ministers even accepted the programme "Multi-annual policy of the state for nursing in Poland - which should not only remain on paper. I sadly accepted today's news that the nurses in court are demanding that the work rates be respected. They demand compensation for basic salary, internship allowance, functional allowance and additional benefit. Nurse's day, holiday. So, from the Seym Speaker, I wish nurses in the Łódź hospitals of Pirogowa, Poleńska, Barlicki, for nurses in Tuszyn, Koluszki, Ożarów Mazowiecki, Jastrowie, Ustrzyki Dolny and throughout the country. I've made my wishes and Mrs. Gretels. She was five years old when she had heart disease. My parents were worried he'd make it. She was at home, and it was her first contact with nursing. Two months in bed for a 5-year-old girl was quite a challenge. The nurses gave her a syringe, a needle, and a teddy bear that she was giving a lot of injections out of the water. That's when the love of nursing flourished. Mrs. Gretel's become a nurse, and today she thinks nursing is a wonderful, though difficult and demanding profession. When we hear the word nurse, what do we associate it with? Today I heard various answers: sacrifice, care, overwork, underappreciation. But I do not hide that the most beautiful answers I heard from one of the volunteers. The nurse is an expression of compassion on the face, tired eyes, working hands. A nurse is someone close to you when you're in need, someone who sometimes replaces your wife, mother, daughter. A nurse is empathy dressed in a uniform. A nurse is a titan of work, a walking good, someone for whom the ethos of work are important enough to ignore unworthy treatment by authority and to be close and take care of others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The nurse's a hero. In front of heroes, nurses, hats off the seymoral platform. But hats off and in front of nurses, because let's remember that this is also their profession, although partly performed by a man. Well, nurse, nurse, happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u664	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u665	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Bedzin and Czeladź! National road 86 is the road in Zagłęb Dąbrowski which connects Katowice with Łódź. It's a road that follows the trail of an old one. Unfortunately, for it to be a good logistics solution, it is safe and good to drive, it requires a lot of modernisation. A very cumbersome section of this road is the intersection at the altitude of Będzin and Czeladź near the largest housing estate of Siberia and the largest market, perhaps one of the biggest markets in Poland, which is located in the city of Czeladź. I appeal from this place for support and inclusion in investment tasks by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways of the idea of the city president Będzin Łukasz Komoniewski and the councilman from this housing estate, from Syberka Jerzy Jagieła and the construction of an additional belt, right-handed belt in this part of the intersection, which will definitely make life easier for both residents of Będzin, Czeladź and Sosnowiec or Siewierz. It is a route, used by all inhabitants of the Dąbrowski Oblast. If this investment were carried out - and the willingness of the Będzinski government to cooperate in this matter is - it would be a good solution and an improvement in safety on this section of the national road. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u666	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u667	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May the International Nurses and Obstetrics Day is celebrated. It's a unique competition and unique vocations. Nurses and midwives are watching their patients from the day they were born until the day of their last farewell. They accompany us in the hardest and most important moments of life. Despite advances in technology, no apparatus or device is able to replace the competences, cares and compassion that a person gives to helping to come into the world and later to save life and health first to a young and later to an adult and an old man. Therefore, the feast of nurses and midwives is an excellent opportunity to remind that without nurses and midwives educated in Poland and Polish universities Polish health care will not function properly. It is also an opportunity to remind the government that work, commitment and choice by nurses and midwives of a unique profession should be appreciated every day, not since Christmas. For the good work of these ladies and gentlemen, a fair wage is due. On my own behalf and on behalf of all the healthy and sick in our country, I warmly thank Polish nurses and midwives for the fact that despite difficult working conditions and dangers, especially during subsequent waves of pandemics, they have always been in their positions and have never left the beds of patients. These words are especially addressed to nurses from Bydgoszcz and Kujaw and Pomerania, from Inowroclaw, Mogilna, Świecia, Więcborka and Nakła, including the Provincial Observatory and Infectious Hospital in Bydgoszcz, with which I worked professionally, and the Regional Chamber of Nurses and Obstetricians in Bydgoszcz, with whom I cooperate on a social level. I wish the birthday boys every day dedicated to their work and service to others to give joy, satisfaction, and a sense of value. I also wish that health and personal well-being accompany ladies and gentlemen and your loved ones every day and since Christmas. Good luck to you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u668	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Walej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u669	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I speak on behalf of people with COPD from Elbląg, Iława, Ostróda, all smaller towns in my region, as well as patients from all over Poland. On 1 May, the President of the National Health Fund grossly reduced the rate of financing for domestic mechanical ventilation. He did so at the time of the greatest inflation in the 21st century, at a time when many of us cannot afford basic products, not to mention the treatment that saves lives. He did so at a time when after a raging pandemic many Poles and Poles struggled with respiratory problems as a result of COVID-19 disease. Their lives and the COPD patients save their homes with ventilators and oxygen concentrates. 10,000. people with disbelief and horror have decided to cut drastic cuts. For a patient ventilated up to 8 hours. daily, and this is more than 30% of patients, the National Health Fund instead of the previous 103 PLN intends to pay 39. Other patients have also been reduced in rates. Specialists will not be willing to provide services at such a price. It is not surprising, then, when they say that it is euthanasia in white gloves. Others add: It sounds brutal, but at these stakes many of us will die. It's inhuman, and we just want to live. The current rates have been in place since 2016 and are now falling at several percent inflation without looking at the effects. I've talked to a patient who has four cancers, has several other serious conditions, and he's living through a ventilator and oxygen concentrate installed at home. It's got to be 24 hours. daily. The cost of such devices is beyond his ability. The decision of the National Health Fund was terrified, and the words he said are not suitable for quoting. Therefore, Minister, I call for the immediate withdrawal of the order of the President of the National Health Fund to finance domestic mechanical ventilation and to restore the rates in force since 2016, and in total you should increase them. I speak on behalf of the COPD patients and I lack the words, and what should they say when they lack breath. Thank you, sir, and I hope you will accept this request. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u670	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. There isn't. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u671	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 20 June 2022 will be 40 years after the death of the exceptional Pole, Zygmunt Piotr Bohusz-Szyszko. I want to remind him of his character. He was born on 19 January 1893 in Chełm as the son of Major of the Tsarist armies Jakub Krzysztof Szyszko and Helena of Witowski, a student of Ignacy Paderewski. Raised in the spirit of patriotic independence, he received a thorough education. He started his studies at the National Secondary School in Chelm. He continued his education in the Cadet Corps in Psków and Aleksandrów Podchorażych School in Moscow. During World War I as leader of the platoon, then the company in 12. The Astrachan Grenadier regiment fought on the Austrian front. He was badly wounded in captivity and was interned in Hungary, where he was in POW camps until 1918. After the end of World War I he joined the ranks of the reborn Polish Army. In October 1918, he was promoted to lieutenant. He took a training course in Dęblin. During the Polish-Bolshevik war he fought on the northern front as commander of the company of heavy machine guns took part in all fights of this regiment. During Płock's defense, he was badly wounded. For showing extraordinary courage and commanding skills in defence of Płock, Marshal Józef Piłsudski awarded him with the Silver Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari. In the autumn of 1921 he was sent to the Warsaw Higher War School, which he completed with very good results. In 1932, he was appointed Deputy Commander of the Border Protection Corps, 2 years later as Commander 1. The Legion Infantry Division in Vilnius. In Paris, chief general Władysław Sikorski appointed him commander. 1. The Grenadier Division and then entrusted him with organizing and commanding the Independent Podhale Rifle Brigade. In April 1940, he was promoted to Brigadier General. Next thing you know, he's in charge of nearly $5,000. The soldiers sailed to Norway, where, in command of the Podhale Rifle Brigade, he took part in the battle of Narwik. The German troops that fought in this area were almost completely destroyed, but due to the deteriorating situation in France, the commander-in-chief interrupted the operation of Polish troops in Norway. The Podhale Brigade was directed to battles in Brittany and soon dissolved. In October 1940, Władysław Sikorski awarded him the Golden Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari and the Norwegian War Cross with the Sword. In March 1942, he became Chief of Staff of the Polish Army in the Soviet Union. After the evacuation of the Polish army to Iraq, he was appointed commander of 5. The Ocean Infantry Division in the Middle East. He soon became Deputy Commander of the Second Corps of General Władysław Anders. He participated in all the battles of the Italian campaign, among others. Monte Cassino, Ankona and Bologna. In 1947, he left Italy for Great Britain, choosing to live in exile. While living there, he devoted himself to the work of the Combatant and the work of publishing and writing. He published articles and memories in London's weekly magazines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was an active member of the Polish Literature Association. He's had a lot of functions. He died on June 20, 1982, having lived for 89 years. According to the general's request, his ashes were brought to Poland. In 1997, the Council He was buried in Warsaw's Powązki with all the honors worthy of a hero. We remember our heroes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u672	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Pieczarka. There isn't. Mrs Krzysztof Tuduj. There isn't. Mr Janusz Kowalski. There isn't. Mr Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki. There isn't. And Mr Frederick Kapinos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u673	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The first seminary in Tarnów celebrates 200 years of existence and is an institution that raises and educates future priests. It is the oldest university in the city of Tarnów and is conducting a process not only of education, but also of shaping the society and citizens of the city and the state. Her field of influence is wide. That's, among other things. the religious, intellectual, social, missionary and cultural dimension. The seminar over these two centuries witnessed great events in the history of not only the seminary community, but also the city of Tarnów and the diocese: various jubilees and ordinations, but above all the laborious acquisition of alumni of knowledge and wisdom, the spirit of humility and service for generations to come. It prepared 4300 priests for ordination, many of whom took pastoral and missionary service in various parts of the world, becoming ambassadors of Polishness. Several forerunners for their beautiful work, full of commitment and dedication, were endowed with a dignity bishop. That's, among other things. current metropolitan of Lublin Archbishop Stanisław Budzik - rector of the Higher Seminary in 1998-2004, bishop of the Polish Army Wiesław Lechowicz - rector of the Higher Seminary in 2004-2008, auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Tarnów Bishop Leszek Leszkiewicz - prefect of the Higher Seminary in 2010-2015 or present bishop Andrzej Jeż - priest of the Higher Seminary in 1996-2004. These are many outstanding graduates known all over the world, like Fr. Prof. Michał Heller - the first Pole and so far the only winner of the Templeton Award. The cards of the history of the Tarnów seminar are also beautiful, and difficult. These were among others. the years of the Galician slaughter, when the Austrian government intended to eliminate them for the patriotic attitude of professors and alumns. From the seminary was removed by the Austrian authorities Fr. Prefect Jan Chelmecki and many alumni. After the People's Spring in 1848, the Austrian authorities even had the intention of abolishing the seminary, but thanks to the diligent efforts and prevention of the seminary, Fr. Rector Michael the King managed to manage this danger successfully. The years of both World War I and World War II were also hard times. The year 1941, when on 22 May the Nazis arrested superiors and alumns who were sent to Tarnów prison as part of extensive plans for the extermination of Polish intelligence. Rector of the seminary Fr. Roman Sitko completed his beautiful martyr's life in Auschwitz 80 years ago on 12 October 1942. John Paul II proclaimed him blessed among 108 martyrs of World War II. From then on, he became a special advocate of priests, alumns, and young people representing his vocation. Love for the country has always been inculcated in the minds and hearts of the alumni and has remained so until today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Jubilee of the 200th anniversary of the Higher Seminary is our gratitude in general to the priests who stood on our way of life and showed us with their attitude the beauty of faith and noble life. It is our responsibility for the next generations of priests who will lead us to God. At this point I would like to thank the current Rector of the Higher Seminary in Tarnów Fr. Jack Soprych for his admirable and respectful service in such an important and responsible position. I remain impressed by the great commitment and diligence of the rector. I would also like to thank you for the previous Rectors of the Higher Seminary in Tarnów and all his employees, who provided the formation of priests serving faithful in Poland and in the world with their services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u674	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u675	On 18 May 2022, the 78th anniversary of the Battle of Monte will be celebrated. Cassino in Italy, one of the most important and fierce battles determining the fate of World War II. Monte Hill Cassino and the Benedictine monastery at its top were crucial for the German defence system on the so-called. Gustav's line. German units controlling the fortified monastery easily resisted attacks by allies, and subsequent attacks by American, British, French, Canadian, South African, New Zealand and Indian units ended in failure. On 18 May 1944, after extremely bloody fights lasting almost a week, troops of the 2nd Polish Corps under the command of General Władysław Anders won ruins of the Benedictine monastery on Monte Hill Cassino, Italy. The victory of the Polish weapons contributed to breaking the German line of defense and opening up the way for allies to liberate Rome. General Władysław Anders' soldiers did their job, but the approach to Monte's ruins Cassino was taken with heavy losses. In total, 923 soldiers were killed in the battle, 931 were wounded and 345 were found missing. The battle cost a total of about 70,000. soldiers of all the fighting nations. At the place of eternal rest the conquerors of Monte Cassino were carved with the inscription: A passerby, tell Poland that we have fallen faithful in her service. The inhabitants of Włoszczów County participated in the fights. At Monte Cassino they fought among others.: Józef Majecki and Czesław Stolarczyk from Oleszna, Stanisław Klim from Podleska, Eugeniusz Kotulski from Włoszczów, Wincenty Bąk from Rogienic, Stanisław Bawol from Bebelna, Czesław Kaczkowski, Kazimierz Młyńczak. This year, during the official celebrations of the 78th anniversary of the battle, the first march of the historic trail of the Battle of Monte will take place. Cassino, which will be implemented by the Military Publishing Institute and the Polish National Foundation. The 12-kilometer track is marked with 12 tables set in symbolic places connected with the fight of Poles over the hill. They feature short information in Polish, Italian and English, as well as pictures and situational maps. It is a form of telling the history of the participation of Poles in the battle and is intended to emphasize their importance. In this historic event of the 78th anniversary of the battle of Monte Cassino, a resident of the municipality of Krasocin - Krzysztof Brymerski, winner of the competition called the Club of Explorers of Memorial Sites organized by the Association of Historical ReconstructionsJodłaż.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u676	Statement on May 11th Day without Garbage In my statement, I would like to draw attention to a relatively unusual but very important holiday celebrated annually on 11 May, called World Day without Garbage. The initiative was born on the basis of an idea developed by young people from several countries cooperating in the framework of the European Youth Parliament's international programme in 2007, a project by Pro Europe - an association of organisations operating under the Green Point recovery organisations. The purpose of this grand day, whose intentions we should read and reflect every day, is to promote correct rules for the segregation of waste, to promote ecological attitudes and to protect the environment. It also prepares educational programs and materials, implementing them both in the real sphere - in the field, as well as in the digital reality - on-line. Everything is accompanied by educational events throughout Poland. The promoters of this special day do not produce thousands of posters, leaflets, inserts and stickers. The basic educational material of each edition of the action is an electronic card, which, when clicked, redirects to the website. A day without rubbish. en. I would like, through my statement, to encourage you to join this event not only since Christmas, but also on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u677	When I made a statement a few months ago about the end of the September campaign, I forgot one thing. I escaped that by the end of April 1940 it was officially operating, not in the underground, the last branch of the army of the Second Republic, i.e. the Separated Branch of the Polish Army under the command of Major. Henryk Dobrzanski ¿Hubalaż. Dobrzanski was an insubordinate soul. This perfect soldier, decorated with the Order of Virtuti Militari, was able to tell his superiors what he thought of them - not always in choosy words. That's why he spent most of his peaceful life in subconscious garrisons. Some researchers even claim that he was not expelled simply because his close relative was a good friend of President Ignacy Mościcki. After the outbreak of the war in September 1939, as deputy commander of the 110th Reservoir of the Ulanów, he did not comply with the order to dissolve the unit and decided to go to the aid of the fighting Warsaw. When she fell, he decided to stay in the country and continue his military struggle in uniform. The Armed Forces were doing everything they could to get a small branch of Dobrzański, who accepted the pseudonym Hubal, to solve it. This decision was based on the desire to protect the civilian population supporting the Hubals from the German repression. Meanwhile, Major Dobrzański organized his small army, believing that he was creating a new formation, which in the future will be a staff for the re-created units. He trained recruits, his soldiers formed security patrols and maintained order in the places where they were stationed. The legend passed through the participation of the Hubals in the Holy Mass at Christmas on Christmas 1939, when the branch He entered the church in full uniform. While fleeing the German raids, Hubal fought several regular battles, the largest of which took place at the Hutch on 30 March 1940. Unfortunately, the population in the villages where the Hubals were stationed was punished by the Germans with further pacifications during which the Germans murdered. Dobrzanski lived through this very hard. He blamed himself for what happened. When most soldiers withdrew from him, he tried to break through the German cordon with the others. On April 30, 1940, he was killed by a German bullet. The anniversary of his death took place a few days ago. Hubal's character is still controversial. Some judge him of honor and faith and blame him for the death of civilians. I guess he just didn't understand that this new war wasn't like the last one. This new war was an idea war. The Germans wanted not only to win, but also simply to destroy the Polish people and other nations. Hubal thought like a soldier and remained a soldier to the end. He said I'm not gonna take off my uniform, and I'm not gonna put my gun down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 4 May we celebrated the festival of firefighters in our country, whose patron saint is St. Florian, but also the chimney guy's day. Both of these professions require courage, knowledge and sacrifice. We are well aware that the help of firefighters in various situations is invaluable, not only for professional ones serving in the State Fire Department, but also for those of volunteer firefighters who actively operate in rural areas in practically every municipality. It is good that we remember them not only on the occasion of their holiday, when we wish and thank you. I myself had the opportunity to do so by participating in the District Firefighter's Day Obats in Szczucin in the district of Dąbrowski. It is extremely important that the firefighters receive professional equipment, that modern fire and fire trucks are systematically transferred to their disposal. They receive increasing support from the government, but it is also worth emphasising the attitude of local governments that care and care about firefighters throughout the year. I would also like to express my special gratitude to all those who have contributed to the fact that voluntary firefighters will be able to receive a special cash benefit for retirement. It is also worth thanking those who risk their time for us over the years. Not everyone remembers, however, that the fourth of May is also a chimney sweep day. Contrary to some popular opinions, chimneying is not an easy and responsible profession. I could see the high sense of responsibility these people must have on a daily basis by participating in the National Congress of Cominaries in Ryglice in Tarnów County. Thanks to their accuracy and accuracy, many threats to human life and health, such as fires or clogging, are avoided. They contribute to protecting the environment and reducing the consumption of fuels used to heat buildings. The smooth chimneys are clean air. Therefore, it is worth appreciating them and wishing the chimney sweeps a lot of happiness and joy in their work, so needed for our society.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 May, we celebrated Europe Day. It's a celebration of peace and unity in Europe. On the pages of the European Union, it is written that this day commemorates the anniversary of the historic declaration in which Robert Schuman presented his vision of a new form of political cooperation in Europe, which would make the war between European nations unthinkable. The Schuman Plan is considered to be the seed of what the European Union is today. Poland joined the European Union in 2004. We have become part of the area of security and economic development, which is known throughout the world. 18 years of membership has been an unprecedented development of civilization, economic and personal citizens for our country. Polish people and Poles could fully enjoy opening a completely new chapter of Polish history. Today we should strengthen our presence in the Union and seek to influence key decisions concerning the future of the Community. Today I appeal to the authorities to change their harmful policies to the right of the state of the Republic. The PiS government puts our country at the brink of the Union. The place of Poland is at the heart of a united Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-11-sejm-54-1.u680	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 12 May 2022, by 12 May 2022, at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much to all of you: the employees of the Sejm, Members, Members and all people of good faith. Goodbye. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 42]]
