ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marta Kubiak and Paulina Matysiak, who will keep the minutes and the list of speakers. Mr Marta Kubiak will be the secretary in the first part of the session. I consider the minutes of the 48th session of the Sejm to be accepted. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to hold a 49th meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Wiesław Stanisław Janczyk, based on the article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code, I have decided to replace Mrs Elżbieta Joanna Zielińska, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask the Member to come closer to the Presidency table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to respect the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that Elizabeth Zielińska has taken a vow of her own. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to proceed with the quorum, which is why I very much ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 445 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. At the 48th meeting, the Sejm appointed Mr Wiesław Janczyk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4th Act on the National Bank of Poland appointed by the Sejm member of the Monetary Policy Council before taking up his duties shall make an oath to the Sejm. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point involving the taking of an oath by a member of the Monetary Policy Council. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The taking of an oath by a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The Sejm appointed Mr Wiesław Janczyk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland appointed by the Sejm member of the Monetary Policy Council before taking up his duties shall make an oath to the Sejm. I state that a member of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Sejm, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, made a request to take an oath. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to take an oath. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u2	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u3	Thank you. I state that Mr Wiesław Janczyk, appointed by the Sejm as a member of the Monetary Policy Council, made an oath before the Sejm. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on Russia's aggression against Ukraine, print No 2029. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on Russia's aggression against Ukraine (print No 2029). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on Russia's aggression against Ukraine The principle of sovereignty and the right to self-determination of nations are among the fundamental values of Western civilization. The decision of the Russian Federation to recognise the independence of the two territories which are integral parts of Ukraine infringes, in an open manner, the rules adopted by the international community and means that the Russian party rejects all roads to an international agreement which is compatible with international law. Vladimir Putin's order violates the fundamental principles of international law and therefore does not have and cannot have binding force for any other State. Ukraine is an independent, sovereign and democratic state. Russia's adoption of the so-called self-proclaimed constitutions. The Lugansk and Donetsk republic actually means the intention to control the territory of Ukraine, so it is a purely warlike operation. The actions of the Russian Federation, which have intensified in recent weeks, are aggression against an independent state. The next steps taken by Vladimir Putin show that his policy is to throw away more than 30 years of peace in Europe after the fall of communism. Russia consciously leads to the resurrection of the demons of the past and to the rejection of any rules beyond the rule of force, brutality and readiness to kill innocent people. The price for the neoimperial policy of Vladimir Putin, Russian gas and energy policy is already being paid by ordinary Ukrainian citizens. This also affects the standard of living of hundreds of millions of European citizens, including millions of Polish families. Once again, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland condemns with all its power all the actions of the Russian Federation, whose aim is to assassinate the sovereignty of Ukraine. The international community must do everything it can to prevent war. The integrity of Ukraine's territory, the integrity of its borders and the right to self-determination are a source of security for the whole of Europe. The Sejm calls on the international community to impose severe economic and diplomatic sanctions against the aggressor. We call on EU and NATO governments and the entire international community to stand jointly and severally on the part of the freedom and right of the Ukrainian people to live in an independent state. I ask that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Long-term applause]] Thank you very much, Members. Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on Russia's aggression against Ukraine. I would like to inform you that item on the agenda: The report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, print Nos 1991 and 1993, was discussed at the 48th session of the Sejm. Therefore, this point has become pointless. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws, print No 2019. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, print No 2022. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports: - on the government bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, - on the government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport, - on the government bill amending the Act on occupational retirement schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, - about the parliamentary bill amending the law - Energy law, - on the government bill amending the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest. The reports shall include prints Nos 2021, 2018, 2026, 2025 and 2020 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that, in discussions on the items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the economic and social consequences of the introduction of the new tax regime, which was proposed by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 11, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 13, - Health at about an hour. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 14, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy together with the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 14.15, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 16, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16, - Health at about an hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 17, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - at 3 p.m. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u5	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the review of the point... Excuse me, there are still formal requests. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning, Donald Tusk called for joint work on... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...a reconstruction of our relations in the European Union, but above all on the proposal presented by Prime Minister Kaczyński for the Homeland Defense Act. [[Voice from the room: Oh, oh, oh, oh...]] Yes, you need to work together so that another Polish Load, which you could destroy, but for that you need responsible politicians. [[Applause]] It is necessary to understand that the threat of Polish sovereignty is in the east and not in the west of Europe. This requires politicians (Applause) who do not listen, like Prime Minister Morawiecki, Le Pen, Salvini or Orbán, but understand that our future is in the European Union and NATO. Mr. President, please reprimand the Prime Minister. This attack on Donald Tusk is an attack on a madman, a man who does not understand that today the security of Poland is at risk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u8	We call on you together to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u9	Mr... Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki wants to speak. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Donald Tusk is the leader of the party. Nord Stream 2. He's in charge... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yeah, that's what you have to say, because... Who's the main promoter? Nord Stream 2? European People's Party. [[Some Members chant: Liar! Liar! Liar!]] Who is the President of the European People's Party? Who is the President of the European People's Party? Donald Tusk. [[A crook from Wroclaw.]] It's about who's promoting German-Russian relations. Well, unfortunately... It's a good thing you realized that in the meantime... [[Pathetic.]] ...better late than never, of course, but it's a shame not before. Second thing. I spoke with Prime Minister Victor Orbán yesterday. [[How's the plot going?]] He guaranteed support for sanctions... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] ...full support for all actions that have... [[Traitor!]] ...prevent Russia's aggression against Ukraine. So there's no fear here, looking from this side. And third, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today Europe speaks much more Polish precisely because we were able to convince it that we were right about Nord Stream 2 as regards the risks of energy policy and gas policy. But let's remember - soon after... [[How's the Russian coal?]] ...the annex to Crimea, somewhere since December 2014, who was the President of the European Council. Well, unfortunately, Mr. Tusk again. And it turned out that the sanctions that were then proposed were so mild, so mild that Russia... [[Enough of these complexes, man, stop it.]] ...she didn't do anything to herself. [[The doctor...]] Ladies and gentlemen! We, too, want to work fully with you today, in agreement, on the Homeland Defense Act. It's a key bill. We want to, but we can't forget what happened a year ago, six months ago, who promoted Nord Stream 2, who promoted Russia's gas monopoly. [[Your friend Trump.]] It is obvious to all compatriots, it is worth remembering, and today let us work to strengthen the defence of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to remind all of us that the situation is extremely serious, and I call on you to stop such political arguments on the one hand or on the other. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Today, as never before, the Polish political class, together with the European Union, with the West, should speak with one voice with the entire international community. And it is good that this one voice expresses its full solidarity with the state and Ukrainian society. [[Applause]] It is good that, above political divisions, we are able to demand sanctions on Russia, support Ukraine and express solidarity. But this solidarity in our case cannot be limited solely to declarations and legitimate political action or military support. In the case of Poland, the nearest neighbour of Ukraine, this solidarity must also mean willingness to provide assistance... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Proposal, Member.]] ...and it's help here, on the spot, if there are refugees from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u13	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u14	Therefore, I make a formal request for interruption and inclusion on the agenda of this meeting of the Sejm information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the preparation of Poland for the provision of possible assistance to Ukrainian citizens in the field of health protection, social assistance, education of children and young people, residence and work on the territory of the Republic of Poland in the event of escalation of conflict with the Russian Federation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u15	Thank you, Member. Madam President, at the Convention meeting, I spoke about the fact that this information will be discussed by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Therefore, as a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break in the session, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 207 - for, against - 233, 12 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're in a special situation. We observe historical events east of Poland. Ukraine has once again fallen victim to the aggression of the Russian Federation. This is the moment that requires Poles to be united, to have a nation's cohesion, because only as a nation that unites on the most important issues, and this is security, we can overcome this great test, which also concerns us, we can survive well. This isn't the moment for a bad fight between party leaders. This is the moment to build cooperation, this is the moment to strengthen our position in the European Union, which is why I ask, Mrs Marshal, to supplement our deliberations (The Bell) about the information of the Prime Minister concerning foreign policy, about the sanctions that Poland will introduce with the Western Community in connection with Ukraine, and also about how we will close the Western Front as the European Union, which is now necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u17	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, I can't. The agenda has been adopted and therefore this is not a formal proposal that could be voted on. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All these words about unity and cooperation that are falling today are absolutely legitimate. Unity in Poland, unity with the European Union, elimination of disputes, unity in NATO and unity with the United States is the only chance to stop Putin. This unity is a measure of responsibility. The national community is the greatest guarantee of the security of the Polish state. In order to forge unity, we need to talk about it, we need to have a dialogue, we need to agree on a common position. The seat of these posts should be the Sejm. And now it's a simple but concrete proposition. Tomorrow, after the vote, we have a point covering the government's information on road safety in 2020 from two years ago. I think it is more appropriate today to inform the government about the security of the Polish state (Applause) in the face of the threat from Russia in Ukraine, in the face of the entry into Ukraine of Russian troops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the declaration of unity is true, then your marshal will change this point and introduce government information on the security of the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u19	Thank you, sir. Neither at the Bureau meeting nor at the Convention meeting did the word on this matter fall, order is established, and this is the information of the Government of 2020. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But it is the will of the marshal's lady that changes everything.]] Oh, no, it's not that bad. You know perfectly well that you are not. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Polish Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS rules for six years and for these six years it can only say one sentence: Tusk's wine. [[You wouldn't be embarrassed.]] For the last 6 years, the Polish economy is equally dependent on Russian gas and Russian coal as it was 6 years ago. You didn't do anything. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] For the past six years, our army has been under constant devastation, far worse than it was six years ago. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Six years ago we had diplomacy, today we have its ruins... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...and you're moving in hand with Putin's team... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...with nationalists and neofascists whom you invite to Warsaw. [[Applause]] Poland is in this situation today. [[By who? Because of you?]] Thanks to you guys. And for that, you will be accounted for. The security of the citizens of the Republic is at stake. You know why? Because he's in charge of the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. These were speeches, ladies and gentlemen, you've made a mistake, they weren't formal conclusions. That concludes the vote, these formal proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture (prints 1913 and 2021). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] If you do not take part in this item on the agenda, please be quiet or leave the room. Mr President, you will wait a moment, well, in a moment we will tell you, since we will count your time. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to leave the room if you want to have a conversation. Talk outside the pleural room, please. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's respect each other. I'm gonna ask you to transfer the calls to the cockroaches. [[Turn over there, too.]] But I have said, Madam, do not really lecture the marshal. Please, sir, you may try to begin. I hope the culture gets back to the gym.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u23	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, i.e. concerning Seym printing No 1913. This project mainly concerns the introduction of solutions to facilitate the replacement of an employee during his justified absence from work, the shortening of the process of complementing the staff shortages of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as well as the creation of a company that will operate the IT ARiMR in order to become independent from external actors in this area. Therefore, the draft proposes the following solutions: exclusion of the obligation to carry out recruitment under the rules laid down in the Agency Act in case of employment for the purpose of replacing an employee during his justified absence from work, the introduction of a regulation enabling him/her to establish an employment relationship for a maximum period of 6 months with a person who has completed his/her traineeship at the Agency - i.e. a person from the employment office... - without recruitment under the rules laid down in the Agency's Act. Further employment will require open and competitive recruitment... [[Voice from the competition hall.]] Open and competitive recruitment, yes. [[The voice from the competition hall, no...]] Thank you, Member. Further arrangements: to change the nature of the employment relationship of the advisor to the employment relationship on the basis of appointment, to add new provisions introducing detailed regulations for the establishment and operation of a limited liability company, the only partner of which will be the agency. In its assessment, the projector will allow the Agency to become independent from external IT stakeholders by creating a specialised stable team. The remuneration of the members of this team will be able to be market-oriented, which is not possible within the agency, where we are dealing with a wage net in the administration. The project also included provisions on the extension of farmers. This is also a very important point. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 22 February 2022, a discussion was held on this project. Five substantive amendments were tabled during the process. In particular, they dealt with issues related to the extension of farmers, including: the procedures and rules for the remission of debts, interest, tax consequences of these activities. All amendments were accepted by the vast majority of committee members. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the proposal submitted by the Government to amend the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and supports its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u24	Thank you kindly, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Górski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against Print Act 1913. The Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture concerns three areas. As the previous speaker mentioned, these are questions of hiring workers, facilitating the employment of employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, these are questions of extending farmers and other entities in situations where, in the case of debts, interest is repeatedly higher than the value of the capital from which they are charged - cases taken over by other institutions. The third major area is to enable the restructuring and modernisation agencies to appoint a company for IT purposes. This is also due to employee problems. Yesterday was the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, where we discussed this draft law. I had the pleasure of submitting five amendments. All these amendments were accepted, there were no votes against or abstentions. The amendments have extended the number of beneficiaries who will be able to have decommitted interest on the basis of new rules more favourable to them. The third amendment, which allows the local authorities to include funds for the construction of house treatment plants in the sewerage measures, met with very high support, because as many as 31 members of the committee, your Members, were behind it, even though a little beyond this law. So that, ladies and gentlemen, the law is very beneficial for farmers - they will be able to get rid of outstanding debt more efficiently - as well as improve the agency's work and ensure its continuity in the IT area. It is also worth mentioning one amendment which goes against plans to promote agricultural insurance. The fourth amendment will allow the payment to be made to the insurance company, the insurance undertaking, which is voluntary: the farmer will decide whether he wants to be insured himself or whether to indicate that the agency will make the transfer from the payments due to him. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law, along with the amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will speak with Anna Wojciechowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, hereinafter referred to as the Agency Act, print No 1913. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes are very extensive and significant, but they raise a lot of concerns and are underdeveloped. The Citizen Coalition Club does not accept these shortcomings and inconsistencies. Due to the underdeveloped changes in the first reading, we have requested that this draft law be rejected in its entirety. Today it is re-proceded. When analysing these changes, it appears that the most significant points in Article are the points. 1 i.e. the extension of the catalogue of posts in the structure of the Agency, which shall be filled by appointment. In particular, it is about the position of advisor to the President of the Agency. This Act wants to move in. What's the employment limit for the president's advisors? I mean, they have to meet some criteria. What's the harm in running the competitions? There is also concern that it is about the next employment of people in the agency as a reward or as a normal bribery for working for the ruling party, PiS. The next point, most controversial, is the creation by the agency of a special purpose IT company with limited liability from the separate IT Department - it is about 109 people employed at present - in order to increase flexibility in the performance of the agency's tasks. And here again the company 100% will be the property of the agency. The target employment is 300 people with high salaries, up to 17 000. zł. The creation of the company will be financed by special subsidies granted by the Minister of Agriculture, so, ladies and gentlemen, from our taxes. The first years of activity will also be financed by the Minister for Agriculture and the State budget and donations. Orders will be placed by the Minister free of charge, without tenders. There are many other regulations that could undermine market competitiveness. There are a lot of unknowns. The Civic Coalition Club doesn't agree to any more underdeveloped regulations, another rubble. Other changes are beneficial to the company's creditors, but it seems that they are only a front, an addition to actions aimed at creating, among others. the company concerned or the posts filled by appointment. The option would be to set up separate billings: projects involving actions beneficial to farmers or creditors of the agency and a project proposing the creation of a limited liability company or appointment posts. The Civic Coalition Club does not accept actions that will be unfavourable and unfounded for farmers. The amendments that were tabled yesterday at the committee meeting are beneficial for farmers, that is correct, but they are out of the law. On the other hand, the Civic Coalition maintains its position regarding the establishment of the company. It's very controversial. As I said before, it's money, public funds, it's taxpayers' money, it can't be wasted. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you to answer a few more questions that we did not get an answer to at the committee meeting yesterday. What were the operating costs of the Agency's IT department in Lublin in 2021? How many IT guys did the department hire last year, and how many are currently hiring? What's their average wage? How much was the annual cost of IT services provided to the Agency by external suppliers in the following years: 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021? What share capital is the special purpose company that handles the agency's IT services? When, for how many years, will the target company achieve its full capacity, i.e. it will take over the services provided to the agency today by external entities? Is it planned that the target company will take over the full range of IT services currently secured, provided to the agency by external companies? What order of savings, and how long will the Agency be able to gather after the resignation of external service providers and the establishment of its own company? On what basis does the Ministry claim that the creation of a company with a target of 300 people (The Bell) is to be neutral for the State Treasury and that from 2025 the new company will generate 30 million profits per year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, on behalf of the Left Messenger's Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All these changes that go towards ordering or making it easier, for example, to employ people who have taken an internship, or those provisions that go towards a financial economy, facilitating financial economy, reporting and accounting, is a direction that has been well chosen, just as those provisions that concern commitments that unfortunately increase quite avalanchely and violently, are about commitments, post-SAPARD debts. If we could actually end this bill at this level, we as the Left Club could accept and vote for this bill blindly. But as we read first in justification, but also in the provisions of this law, we can see clearly and clearly what this law is really about. Firstly, you are expanding the catalogue of people that can be hired, bypassing the competition rules, as if five deputies were not enough in the agency and this intellectual and advisory level was not enough for the president to support the president of the agency, and as if another new posts had to be created as far as advisors are concerned. It's clear and clear. The kid in elementary school sees what's really going on here. Another thing that should be pointed out, which my previous speaker, Madam, has just said, is that it is a matter of creating a company. You can see clearly and clearly why you're doing this. After all, all you want is to own your assets, actually finance and own your budget assets. After all, in the thesis to confirm the legitimacy of setting up this company, you write that today the intellectual resource, the personal resource that works at the agency, is unable to meet the IT requirements that are ahead of it, is unable to make one coherent system, one window consistent for farmers and replace those many systems in which the farmer has to fulfil his applications today, is unable to make innovative, modern solutions for farming. But the same people, the same personal, intellectual, escorted to the company, will already be able to do it. After all, this is clear and clear, this is a typical lie, which you once again use only to justify the establishment of a company. Another thing that raises the most controversy about this issue is the issue of extending the sources of funding to the company. After all, you are only doing this to create positions and new funding and, as was the case with the Justice Fund, to carry out budget money beyond that to your friends and colleagues. You also create another position as president, just to satisfy your colleagues who haven't been in a position yet, haven't become presidents. You can see that clearly and clearly. When you read the reason, it comes directly from it. To be honest, during the 100 days since the appointment of a new minister and the appointment of practically the whole new office with so many vice-ministers, I was hoping in my naivety that you would really take care that the Polish farmer never had to sell his products which he would produce again, below the cost, that you would take care that the Polish farmer would never wait for his money again and never be deceived again by the producer groups or used by the large commercial networks. In my naivety, as it turns out, I also thought that you would take care of the ASF and the virulent avian influenza, that you would take care of support for these breeders, that in a situation where the prices of fertilisers go wild, you would create a support programme for farmers that would be beneficial to them, and not just limit yourself to writing a letter to the European Commission about whether or not you could handle it. It's embarrassing, isn't it? I also hoped that in the programme: a young farmer - because this is a programme designed for a young farmer to grow - you will see. The fact that this young farmer who's using this program can't grow because he can't buy more land. You don't see it. I was hoping that you would finally take up as an agency and a ministry of producer groups, which are evidently created only to milk the agency and cheat Polish farmers, as it was in the Lublin Opole where we were on Monday. Finally, I thought in my naivety that you would simply do everything you could to help Polish farmers, but in my naivety I was simply wrong. You've taken care of... You, Minister, have dealt with the exchange of ministers... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Literally, I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u30	Thank you very much, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u31	...the exchange of key positions in the Ministry and...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u32	There's already been a few words. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u33	...the creation of companies and subsequent PiS catteries, and financial layouts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u35	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, print Nos 1913 and 2021. Before I start, it's... You support agriculture so much that today again farmers in Warsaw are on strike because they no longer have time or money to wait for your next promises. [[Applause]] They need to be sympathized with and responded to these calls, not to say that someone wants to do politics. After all, the voters farmers are in every party and even in every circle, so we should all look after them equally. Now that we're talking about this project... The submission of the draft law amending the Law on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture contained in print No. 1913 is another step towards the ownership and politicisation of state structures, stubbornness and limitation of institutional and social control over spending from the state budget and from European Union funds. Art. 1 points 1-3 is another recent manifestation of the surrender of the Ministry of Finance. The repeal, at the request of this department, of specific provisions laying down the power and obligation to report to the supervisory agency on financial matters is a symptomatic repetition of the former Minister Tadeusz Kościński. Nobody in the resort has enough time to get into the details. Well, in an institution with multi-billion-dollar amounts, you have to go into detail. The long tradition of applying the repealed provisions obliges and means something. Today, through this kind of change, a signal comes into the world: the Ministry of Finance closes its eyes to the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, limits its responsibility for the correctness of the financial processes of this institution. This is a bad change. Another thing, Art. Point 1 (3). Today, it is rare to see an amendment to the laws governing the functioning of state institutions that would not handle staff matters. First, by the December 2015 amendment, you made changes on the basis of which staff cleaning could be made among the workers employed in the times of the predecessors, and today, as in the French Revolution, we have seen the day when the revolution begins to eat its own children. You hired the president's advisors, and now you can't fire them. You have not given them any tasks that could be accounted for, and today you are trying to make these changes, so that these advisors of previous presidents can be converted into their own, hence the proposal that they should also be legally able to change their employment contracts to work relationships based on a vocation, so that it can be resolved at any time without giving a reason. The big area, which, of course, upsets everyone, is the change through which you want to establish a company. After all, we remember how the then Minister Jurgiel and President Obajtek appointed a department in Lublin, which was to respond to all the IT problems of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Today you say it didn't work out. You want to set up a company that actually responds to your call: PiS - party and company. Today you want to create a commercial law company or include shares in it. Who's gonna cover the remaining shares? What are the proportions? What state resources will go to this company? What's the point of a supervisory board if it's not a mandatory body under the Commercial Companies Code? There's no room for your own? You're gonna throw your other activists in there again? Will it be a company, or will it be another agency department, but excluded from regulation and wage constraints, from institutional and social supervision mechanisms? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about respect for competition if such a company can provide services. If it hadn't been for the farmers part, we would have voted against. But if we have to support the farmers, we will hold off on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u36	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u37	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law presented by the Government concerns changes in the legal bases of the Agency's activities and can generally be divided into two groups. The first group consists of changes that go in the right direction and are, for example, those relating to the extension of farmers who received loans from the Fund for Restructuring and Extension of Agriculture. Even during the committee's work there have been positive changes, e.g. as regards the entry directly into the Income Tax Act that this amount is not subject to tax. It was also envisaged to be able to transfer payments to insurance companies. This is, I would say, the possibility of better securing both one and the other party's insurance contracts. The Act will also introduce a solution that will enable local governments to settle funds for financial support for waste water investments by demonstrating that they have been earmarked, for example. for household sewage treatment plants. And this is this group of good changes to this bill. The second group, on the other hand, is very controversial. First of all, it's about hiring. While there are no disputes in the situation connected with the traineeship, such a very wide open door concerning the hiring of advisers without any competitive mode shows that this law also smuggles a very wide highway to employ the next Misiewiczs and this is an absolutely reprehensible practice, Minister. If a person is to work, he must demonstrate competence that will enable him to fight effectively for the interests of agriculture. Because by introducing such a solution, through which you push your Misiewiczs into agriculture without any competence, you treat these farmers as a necessary evil, and agriculture and the sector are to be just the place where your people work. And the second thing, the special purpose company, which will be responsible for preparing systems to support the agency's activities. There's a few threads here. What has already been discussed: this IT department in Lublin. It would be good if Mr. Obejtek could explain how much it cost and who made such a decision that was unverified. The issue of pay: as you can see from the justification and yesterday's deliberations of the committee, IT specialists in the agency are treated below their dignity, below their competence. Is it normal practice for people to be treated below their pay responsibilities? The remuneration of the board of directors, the supervisory board, competitiveness issues: (The bell) is not something that helps Polish farmers, but only the current power. As there are positive solutions here, we will also abstain from this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Again, we are going back to this law, which should essentially be called helping farmers, because you are also helping in an epidemic state or you are adding to the issue of sewage to local governments, which is positive. That's a plus, you have to say it here, that's what my previous speakers said earlier, but at the same time it's helping those in need of a rabbit friend. Unfortunately, after yesterday's committee meeting, which I unfortunately listened to remotely, I did not learn anything that I would not have learned earlier by reading your analysis, which was attached to the OSR. You're mixing the bad with the good one again. You're messing with the fact that you could help out here, and you could also change this question about helping farmers. You mixed it up with a company that doesn't even know if it's necessary. You have not convinced me of what was said at the committee meeting, because we still do not really know what this cost of service will be in relation to efficiency. We do not know, because the situation will be non-negotiable, whether the company will receive excessive amounts for contracts. We do not know further whether the country will create solutions that farmers will also be able to actually apply. Also a matter of ownership, of where the products of this company will be, where this property will be. You were simply saying at the committee meeting that she would continue to be in the company. The fact that the company is dependent on the ARiMR - okay. Just now the question is, what's going to happen when the board of this company starts doing things that somebody in Arimr will never see again? These situations can happen, these are the risks that you will have to deal with. We, as the Confederation, do not want to be fully responsible for these risks, so we will not support this bill, but we will not block it either, because we must remember That you've just once again mixed up the good with the bad. You've mixed up the already mentioned issue of sewage, also the issue of interest on liabilities, with the creation of a company for familiar rabbits. This cannot be accepted, but we understand the situation and we want the welfare of Polish farmers, as we have already stressed some times. Hence our abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u40	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, near PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the dubious pleasure of presenting the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Why are they dubious? Because epochs change, the numbers on the Commons change, and the Polish Ministry as permanent as it lasts. What do I mean? As a member of the Parliamentary Committee, the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technology, not more than two months ago I had the opportunity, and then the entire High House had the opportunity to debate on a government bill on special rules for the remuneration of people performing cybersecurity tasks, a law that otherwise, what is next, responds to the same problem and the same challenge faced by the creators of this discussed government presentation, namely the IT sector, the IT department, the IT Department to pay more. And this Polish resort shows itself, High Izbo, precisely in such a way that when it comes to those responsible for cybersecurity, a special fund was invented, and when it comes to those responsible for cybersecurity and the IT department at ARIMR, this is a clever way for the agency to set up its own limited liability company. If I were from PiS, I'd be talking and yelling about the classification, 'cause I guess that's the nomenclature. Classic case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Why are you doing this? I'm not talking about the fact that a moment before you come up with a completely different solution for the same problem, and right now you're going a very risky, dangerous way just to pay people more. There's a minister around KPRM named Cieszyński. I wanted to ask and I wanted to ask for information on whether this matter was consulted with Minister Cieszyński and with the Minister responsible for IT. The Minister responsible for computerization is Mateusz Morawiecki. Prime Minister! The next question, although unfortunately rhetorical: Do you control the national economy, which is computerization and cybersecurity? Because the reading of these two documents: one of the particular principles of remuneration for those carrying out cybersecurity tasks and the other which we are discussing at the moment, shows that you do not prevail. And let me make this clear: this is an extremely important area in the area of state security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u42	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, on behalf of the Kukiz Group15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 Direct Democracy I have the honour to present the position of the circle on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, print No. 1913. I would like to say briefly that these solutions, which are proposed here, should have been proposed many, many years ago, because there is no other way for us to save time for the farmer. This is digitization. Digitization gives us and transparency, and gigantic savings. So it's very good that... [[Costs.]] Mrs. Member! I really did not disturb the Member. If you listened yesterday at the committee meeting, you would learn that what this company has already done in Lublin is software that is cheaper than you could buy on the market, from two to 10 times. It's a giant economy. Commercial companies are commercial companies and have the right to claim any amount. That's why we're going to have our own company that's going to write software for agriculture. Let me repeat: this is the only way to save the paperwork that is right now. And there's a lot of paperwork in agriculture. We want everything to be confirmed, only confirmation on paper is completely ineffective. Another thing that's in this bill, and it's very good that it's there, that's the extension of the farmers. We have agriculture over the years indebted very strongly and there are farmers who at the moment have higher interest than the capital that they could not pay back. It is very good that there is a mechanism to give up this percentage and to rationally prolong agriculture. The last thing I wanted to say was this. A bit controversial, involving the appointment of advisors, but they're going to be uncompete. However, it would have to be considered again whether it is wrong or good, because just as we should be able to easily hire these employees, so it is written in the bill that we can just as easily fire them. It cannot be as it is at this moment in many official positions - to get in, and then I am inextricable. So this issue of a simple way of dismissing officials who are not doing well is positive. Therefore, unlike the other groups that have just presented their positions, we take responsibility for agriculture and will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u44	Thank you kindly, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first reading of this law triggered an avalanche of questions. Farmers are not only asking why the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in this law is largely concerned with improving its own working conditions, it is not about improving the working conditions of farmers. For many years, many farmers who run agrotourism businesses have been demanding the drafting of a law on agrotourism which would define concepts, even if what is an agrotourism undertaking, working conditions and conditions of support. Such laws exist throughout Europe, Italy, France, Austria, and everywhere there is talk about how the state supports this form of entrepreneurship. With us there is no such law, which causes, even now, during the pandemic period, that agrotourism farms are in collapse. My question is simple (The bell): When will there be a law on agrotourism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u46	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question relating to this draft law concerns the reasons why, with regard to the Agency's budget, you will not want to take into account the European Union's resources. These are really external measures, but I think it's worth taking into account for the sake of financial clarity. Second thing. Was there an economic analysis concerning the establishment of this IT company, namely, in short, does the Minister know about the increase in costs of operation of the entire IT service at the time when this company is set up? After all, then they will have to be commissioned by the agency to this company, and it is known that as an external entity, these costs increase. So I'm asking for information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u48	Thank you kindly, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Government bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Two short questions, I would very much ask for written information. What will be the cost of the newly created company operating the agency? Are staff changes at all planned in the Agency, with particular emphasis on managerial positions, in 2022? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is concerned, the fact that the president of the institution needs a large number of advisers must bear witness to something. About what? While the mere fact that security advisors are removed from the standard contract of employment should be regarded as legitimate, a number of questions arise. How many advisors can the president appoint? Will their remuneration be limited under the same conditions as that of other agency staff? And in the end, are we not going to create another storage room for a group of well-deserved party activists waiting either for retirement or for another appointment in another government agency? And such a question to the Minister: Why do we not impose on the President of the Agency in the draft law in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code, Article. 68 compulsory obligation to pre-empt the appointment of an advisor (the bell) as a competition for this position? I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u52	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Agency has a very bad opinion both among farmers and among workers themselves. [[Applause]] Salaries are the lowest national, working conditions are fatal and this is an institution unfortunately politicised. People work out of hours, without discussion, they have to do extra work. Ignorance and disregard for man. And here is the proposal to set up a limited liability company for money, of course, taxpayers with a salary of up to 17 thousand. zł, 300 people employed, orders given on a tray. IT, ladies and gentlemen, is a very good business. But why don't you let the agency handle its tasks that she's supposed to do? Maybe we need to clean up the current situation there, improve working conditions first. This will be translated into the results of the work. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u55	And you don't have to set up a partnership, and you don't have to hire the president's advisors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and its employees carry out important tasks for farmers and residents, in particular those aiming at rural development. I quote: I make $2.2,000. zł per hand, a friend from room 6,000. zł. That's how political agreements work, says the agency's employee. Now we're going to have to add: I'm making 2.2,000. Zł, a friend from room 6,000. PLN and employee of the newly established company 10,000. zł... [[17,000. zł.]] ...or more. [[Applause]] In view of the above, I wanted to ask the Minister about the basic thing: When will the salary increase be made for agency staff, especially in county offices? They're mostly getting the minimum wage today. Please respond in writing on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There was a very turbulent discussion at the agricultural committee meeting, but I, Madam President and Minister, wanted to ask you one more time. In 2017, according to NIK-ev's information, we remember this, the concept of creating an IT unit in Lublin, developed at the request of the President of the AriMR, assumed that the newly created entity in the perspective of 3 years would be able to maintain key CIA systems using internal resources. These were the assumptions in 2017. At the time, Mr. President spoke beautifully about it, setting up this unit. You speak just as beautifully of this company. Art. 1 should be deleted. No company, because if this company does not achieve any of its objectives, you have no option to terminate this company, and the costs of this company will be enormous. I repeat the question (the bell) like the others: How many people will there earn in relation to hardworking people in the ARIMR? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u60	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u61	A question for government representatives. The 500+ family programme in the ARiMR. Why do you ignore the way you recruit people? Because now there's gonna be an internship, an order from the PiS and an employee. No one other than PiS's friends will be able to work for the agency in the future. And now the creation of a company in connection with computerization. After all, what you are referring to: critical applications, the state did not lift. Questions: How much will it cost? Why aren't you introducing such a solution within the AriMR? Each of the resorts wants extra money, and then the state, as in the case of Polish sewing houses, does not answer any questions, you hide everything, you waste money, just as Minister Cieszyński wasted. You don't fight ASF. And the question is, when will you finally take care of the most important thing in cooperation (the bell) with the resort, i.e. the payment for fertilisers for farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u62	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u63	...and solve the ASF problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u64	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have very specific questions. The first concerns the remuneration of computer scientists. It is clear from the justification of the Act that the Agency pays IT professionals below their qualifications. I wanted to ask: Why hasn't action been taken, Madam President, which would end up with salaries corresponding to qualifications? After all, it is extremely important that those who have competence have experience in the organization, but they continue to do this work so as not to lead to a situation of continuous fluctuations of the staff, because this causes a reduction in the quality of the sofa. Second question. What expenses were incurred to set up an IT centre in Lublin? Is anyone gonna answer for this failed idea? It seems that if it was done uneconomically, someone should be responsible for it. For what reasons has no cooperation with the company Critical Applications been established? After all, there is such a company, carrying out tasks for the Ministry of Finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why wasn't she asked for help? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is another personnel act. You are expanding the catalogue of posts in the structure of the Agency, which will be filled by appointment. Is it necessary to create an advisory position in the Agency for the President of the Agency? Of course, for the PiS so, because there are still a lot of their jobs left to give - unfortunately that is the truth - with an appropriate salary of 11-17 thousand. zł, as you propose in the bill. You create an agency employing an army of people, you make companies, but do you even think about farmers? [[Yes.]] You can't see it, sir. When are you finally going to deal with actual problems and help farmers? A large group of hosts are still waiting for their wages to be paid. The price of fertilizer for your good change is extremely high. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have a protest from the farmers before the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u69	They didn't come here for no reason, go out there and talk to them in plain English. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Tusk has to be thanked for the fertilizer prices.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u70	We're talking, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What this bill is, we really could have listened to it yesterday. It is nothing but providing more places for its own. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, she did not want to answer the questions, hiding herself from the fact that if there were regulations, she would say who would be president of this company, who would be vice president, how many would be vice presidents and, above all, who would sit on the supervisory board. After all, it's nothing but building a son again for your own. Will it be like in other companies, even in my family Radom, that the children of politicians of Law and Justice will sit as members on supervisory boards? Are these places for voivodship councilmen? [[Applause]] That is a specific question, we expect an answer today. Are you going to put your own people in there just to raise money for it? Perhaps this is also about campaign funds, hence the express mode of work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u72	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened remotely to the agricultural committee yesterday, and it was really enough for me to understand that all my politics, this sloppyness and lack of rational management of funds, as well as the pressure to produce more posts for your friends, just to cover the fact that you are adding some sensible and good solutions to this project. But it's not the essence of the case, it just happens by the way. So that the opposition couldn't be against it, you threw in something for the farmers. The essence of this project is only the establishment of this company, which you really need to have new positions, as everyone has already said, for your people. And it's unimaginable that yesterday, the president of the agency, when asked about specific costs in a substantive and factual manner, was responsible every time: this is going to be worthwhile for us. How can you plan to manage public funds so that you write a project to set up a company and at the same time you don't know how much it will cost? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Every entrepreneur knows that in order to receive funds, he has to present a business plan, and you come to the committee meeting and you want us to support the project because it's going to be worth it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u74	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the effects of this company's work. What software will this company produce? Is it possible to harmonise the software in all offices, agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry itself? According to the information I received in response to one of my interpellations, we have dozens of different, incompatible software in all units. That's what's causing the giant... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs. Member! I understand you're nervous, but let's hope this company works, let's not criticize right away, as always in advance, let's give it a chance. Let's hear what this company will do to us when there's one window for the farmer when the farmer can report all the information he needs through a mobile phone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Farmers! The law on restructuring and modernisation of agriculture, which is to be de facto for you, is not that. This is not a law for farmers, it is a law for officials, it is a kind of financial oscillator for bringing public money to a new company, with a new president, with a new board, with new employees: from 100, ultimately - from 300, with salaries of 11-17 thousand. zł. The money that should go to you farmers will go to the officials. What about the restructuring and modernisation agency in Lublin? What about those employees you're gonna fire so you can hire your own? This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a bill for your family, for your own. It's not a law for farmers, it's a law for officials. We do not know how much the company (the bell) will cost, what costs will be incurred and what about the agency in Lublin. I wanted to ask you this and ask you for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u78	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u79	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture intends to set up a company that will deal with its IT services. In an expert study attached to the draft law, the agency explicitly stated that the company was to be set up because at present the rules do not allow to offer market rates and also prevent employment bypassing the Labour Code, e.g. through B2B, which does not allow hiring people from the IT industry. The State agency therefore creates a company to circumvent state regulations. This is ridiculous. In addition, each company is also another board that can be filled with its own people, and you already know what you can do about it, right? Therefore, I ask you why you create a company instead of changing the rules so that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can create its own IT department. Is this law really for farmers, or is it for officials and your officers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much will the board of directors make?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u81	Please respond in writing and indicate specific amounts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u82	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How embarrassing are you? We have increasing poverty and poverty, inflation of 9.2% , crazy expensive, high prices, rising interest rates, huge increases in fertiliser prices, a drop in income in the countryside, farmers protesting on the streets, and you what? Instead of savings, rational and responsible public spending, effective measures to reduce the price of fertilisers, are you introducing a new programme? A gig for your pluses? [[Applause]] Superremunerations of up to 17,000, 300 jobs, jobs, probably for their own, outside the bidding process. There's a lover like a tralala. [[Applause]] I ask how these actions of yours will serve farmers and what savings they will give. Where are the detailed calculations? I'm asking you to show them. [[Applause]] [[Tralala.]] How many posts for friends will be on the board and the board of directors? What remuneration will members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board receive? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, I'm afraid, dear farmers, that this little company, instead of helping you...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u85	...was created hurriedly, without consulting for this...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u86	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u87	...to guarantee PiS in the Sejm a majority of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u88	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the opposition repeat like a mantra: the high price of fertilisers. But what do you say, ladies and gentlemen? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: From incompetence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u90	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u91	Above all, from gas prices, from soaring gas prices, which has enabled the policy of the European Union institutions. [[That's not the bill.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: People won't write.]] An irresponsible, naive policy of the institutions of the European Union, in which the main role played until recently who? [[Tusk.]] Donald Franciszek Tusk. Ladies and gentlemen, this must be repeated and reminded. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, Minister, is the most important institution for farmers, it helps farmers on many levels, it works with farmers, I mean, and that is why it is so important in the age of digitalization and IT to meet the market requirements for payments to people... [[Tomato.]] ...who are responsible for this, computer scientists. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the non-agricultural issue. How many Polish farmers have so far...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u93	...use this program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The reporter's bill plus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u94	Thank you, sir. And I would like to point out to the Members that this is the Sejm, not the cabaret, and please do not shout in turn. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. [[But it was a reporter's bill plus.]] Madam President, I am still paying attention. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why does the law, in accordance with the practice of bad lawmaking, give the minister the authority to entrust a company with the task for which it will allocate funds excluding public procurement rights? Another fatal record gives the possibility of creating a special purpose IT company by separating the company from the IT Department, i.e. probably the same IT specialists within the IT Department are working badly, while within the company they will be more effective. Aren't these the fumes of absurdity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u96	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u97	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a very good law, a law expected by farmers. It has many very good records, such as. concerning the extension of farmers, Members forget about it, they do not say about it, provisions concerning insurance issues. No one here has said that the farmer will be able to pay the insurance by selecting to deduct from the payment insurance. This will make insurance more common. PSL kept telling us that the Union forbids it, and we are introducing it in this bill. But a lot, a lot of yelling about this company, that it's coming up. Minister, this company needs to be set up as soon as possible. Of course, the Platform and PSL will hurt that we are doing a Polish state company because they privatized everything they could. In the last month of their reign they privatized PKP Energy. You privatized - I'm talking to you, gentlemen of the PSL - the whole processing, you've put it in foreign hands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It hurts you that there will be a state company...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u98	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u99	...whose profits will be in Poland, whose funds will remain in our Polish hands...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u100	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u101	...and not - as you've done - in your hands, your people or foreign companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u102	Thank you, sir. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left. Let me remind you, we're at a questioning stage. [[Is that true, Minister?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We create a law that gives us the opportunity to create another costly economic entity at the expense of citizens, farmers. Is it needed, or is it necessary? I believe that the new entity will deal with what the IT department of the agency can successfully do. The Agency is so extensive and costly that it should successfully meet the requirements and expectations of farmers. At this difficult economic and economic time, we should address the real problems. We are investigating a project that is really going to create for its well-paid management jobs and costly supervisory positions of party support. In this situation - a very difficult economic situation - is it justified to set up an expensive company entirely excluded from the free market competition? The own company (the Bell) in this form, in terms of its establishment, its operation, will draw from the funds of the agency a handful as much as it wants, and it has nothing to do with the free market or transparent action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u104	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of setting up an IT company or any other body or company that would be involved in IT is basically the beginning of... This is before the entry into the European Union. One thing at a time, every government tried to do it. Law and Justice managed to do it. The problem was that in addition to the software license there is a license on the database. When problems with the software license could be overcome, there was always a problem with the license on the database that could not be skipped. Thanks to the actions of President Obejtek and the activities of the Department of Computer Science created by him, these difficulties (the bell) were overcome. I have a question about what the next steps will be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u106	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. Please, the last question in this series, at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u107	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Telus! It was AWS who privatized the most, and you are the heir to AWS, not the Polish People's Party. But right now, while you've been in government for six years, you've been destroying bets: milk mills fall, processing companies fall, and you're responsible. It was President Obajtek who led to the fact that he fired half a thousand people from the restructuring agency and practically all cases were lost, huge money went to compensation instead of raising wages for employees instead of improving working conditions. You admitted that the IT department in Lublin was a misfire, didn't work out. If there is a company that actually operates on the basis of transparent records and rules, it makes sense. But we're afraid that's not gonna happen. I would like to ask you how much the State Treasury (the bell) cost all compensation paid wrongly paid, unlawfully to the agency's employees since 2015. Please answer in writing, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u108	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Telus as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! I think the Member misunderstood me. I'm a member of Law and Justice, I wasn't a member of any AWS. [[You're the heir to AWS.]] And as for who privatized the most, Mr Pity, Mercy. Two months before the end of your term, you privatized the entire PKP Energy - the entire PKP. I mean, we have such a situation that the entire current in Poland, so to speak, is in foreign hands at the moment. You sold it. You're the ones who wanted to sell the lotus, give it to the Russians, sell it to the Russians. You're the ones who wanted to sell Azota, give it to the Russians, give it to Putin. What would be today? Those were your actions. [[You sold the lotus. Lotus - Chairman of Obejtek. Hungarians, and then Putin.]] Yours and the Civic Platform. You just don't understand what I'm saying, what I'm trying to say. That's why I wanted to correct it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u110	Thank you kindly, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Bartosik, will answer the questions asked in this item. Come in, Minister. [[Voice from the hall: Polish Lotus for Hungarians.]] Mr Pierce, you are very welcome to turn the conversations into cockroaches. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I ask the High House to adopt this much-needed law, especially to Polish farmers. At the outset, I would like to say - it will not be revealing, but unfortunately it did not fall in this room - the agency is being operated at the moment by external IT companies, and these are not charitable institutions, honourable Members, and they do not work for us without money. We're paying for it, and we're paying for it. In addition, we select companies in public tenders. Tenders are very often protested, and therefore the emergence of these companies is often ongoing and this has an extremely negative impact on the IT activities which are carried out by the agency. There are two points in this law. Long-term - thank you to Mr Telus for telling me about them, because that was not the case. There is also the issue of the assignment of the statement for field crop insurance, which is very important and will have a very large impact on the dissemination of these crops, these insurances, because I will remind you that there are measures for this purpose, we pay 65% to agricultural contributions. It will be possible to use subsidies, of course, with the farmer's will and consent. The other amendments that are included in this Act are long-term amendments. But there was a lot of talk about the company. This company is needed and, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no failure by the Lublin department. He's proven himself. The department is doing its job, and almost 30 new applications have been introduced. It's a great job, it was a move and a step in the right direction, and we're moving on. Why? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to be in the situation in which we found the agency in 2015, when the PSL country left us the agency in such a state that we would soon not be able to pay direct payments to farmers. Only thanks to the great determination and work, the involvement of the then new authorities of the agencies, the then Minister of Agriculture, these payments were paid. We are going with the spirit of time and we are looking at some situations related to, for example, the new financial perspective of the European Union. We are introducing a strategic plan, which consists of ecoschemats. All of this must be included in the IT system, which is why there is a need for this company and this company, dear country, will serve farmers in spite of what has been so often rained here. If someone holds back, does not want to vote in favour of this law, does not want to serve Polish farmers. [[Applause]] This company will serve to ensure that in due time, in time and in sufficient quantities, because these funds from the European Union need to be used, these funds are obtained for nobody else, only for Polish farmers. Every second question was the word: advisors, advisors, advisors. Ladies and gentlemen, I must return to history here. Years 2010-2014, Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, 25 advisors. The years 2015-2021, six, including two, who are from the union law, who must be, or four. At present, the two advisers who must be members of the trade union are the result of the provisions of the trade union law, with the President in front of you, 0.5 of the advisory position. This is the matter of advisors (the bell), and you are accusing us here of how many advisors they will be if they are employed. Ladies and gentlemen! The agency works very well and I thank you, Madam President, for your hard work for Polish farmers, because in addition to these EU programmes, national programmes are being implemented, because we respond and help our farmers every day - and for this I thank all the employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, including in the county offices, in the voivodeship departments, but also here, in the headquarters, because it is thanks to their work that this work has been appreciated, at the moment there are increases being implemented. The company will serve no one else, only Polish farmers. We take a step forward, we anticipate some actions, we want the Polish farmer to receive as much money as possible in time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We will answer all the questions that I have not been able to answer here in writing. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u112	Thank you kindly, Minister, for the comprehensive explanations, especially regarding the various false information contained unfortunately in some questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft national heritage protection law relating to the designation of public spaces, print No 1967. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport (Prints No. 1999 and 2018). I kindly ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Technical Dosore Act and the Railway Transport Act in prints no. 1999 and 2018. First of all, I would like to mention at the outset that the committee has not introduced a government amendment to the proposal. It was adopted yesterday in the text proposed by the government, and the need to amend the Technical Door and Rail Transport Act stems from the signals reported by the economic environment regarding the plans to build such first passenger transport equipment and things moving on one rail, it is the so-called one. monorail, or air or magnetic pillows, as well as those which are currently not used in transport or rope or rope-terpene or railway. I would like to stress that according to the content of the justification of the project - it is worth repeating that this sounds here, in the plenary room - the basic objective of the proposed law is to introduce into the Polish legal order the basic regulations concerning devices for the carriage of persons or things moving on one rail, i.e., once again, it is the so-called. monorail, or air or magnetic pillows, as well as others that are not currently used in cable-terpene or rail transport. I think that from the point of view of the objective pursued by this law, this is a response to the lack of legislation in this area - first of all. Secondly, this is certainly an extension of the competence of Transport Technical Supervision. The regulations contained in this project extend the competence of the Director of TDT to carry out technical supervision over devices which are used for the carriage of persons or goods moving on one rail or on air or magnetic pillows. I think it is clear from the discussion that was held yesterday, and from the issues that had previously appeared in public space, in the discussions of transport environments, that the implementation of these changes that we are currently debating will have a positive impact on the efficiency of public transport in the future. This is of great importance not only for the quality of life of those who use it. We are talking about solutions that are low-carbon, ecological, collision-free and competitive at the same time in price. I think that one of the main addressees of this regulation in the future is, of course, local government, large urban agglomerations in our country. Such transport, which operates on several continents - because such solutions have been in force - has been used in some countries for many years - contributes to a significant increase in the competitiveness and attractiveness of the agglomerations, improves a lot of investment factors and certainly builds competitiveness in the pursuit of business activities, but above all, if we narrow it down to the technical solution itself, as a result it builds innovation, creates new technological solutions which guarantee, first and foremost, fast public transport in large urban areas and, I believe, relieves, in many cases, the inefficient transport system within the agglomeration, without interfering with existing traffic flows. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for your attention. Of course, once again, I would like to stress that yesterday's committee unanimously adopted the draft government initiative without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u114	Thank you kindly, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Jerzy Polaczek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the draft amendment contained in prints no. 1999 and 2018, here I am talking about the amendment of the Technical Door and Rail Transport Act. In order not to duplicate the threads contained in the report on this project, I would like to stress, by referring to the information presented in the explanatory memorandum and at the committee meeting, that the monorail - we are talking about this addition to the legal bases needed to implement such technical solutions into the Polish legal system, but also in practice - is now de facto on every continent in the world, and currently more than 56 monorail lines are used, of which, which is quite interesting, more than 25 are operating in practice on the Asian continent. In recent years, interest in these technical solutions has increased significantly. Several dozens of new investment projects are being carried out concerning the construction of a single railway line, which are in the test phase, waiting for construction or are in the conceptual planning phase. The regulations that are contained in the relatively small scope of the amendments are the first, basic step in order to initiate the work on this type of transport in Poland. As rapporteur, I have already stressed in my speech that in Poland, to date, there are no legal solutions for so-called solutions. monorail and it is difficult to define and prejudice the final technical solutions for the shape of monorail at the stage of the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. Certainly from the point of view of practice, Parliament's adoption of these solutions will enable Parliament to speed up conceptual work, and in the future to implement such projects in highly urbanised areas, without leaving, I would say far. I think that this could affect the largest agglomerations in Poland, which would complement road or rail investments in a very complementary way. This concerns both regional investment and road solutions, for which local government funds are used alongside the state budget. For my part, I would just like to suggest, referring to the opinion attached to the draft law, that, if the Minister considers it appropriate, he should, in a few words, refer to the justification for the concept of entrusting tasks to the Transport Technical Supervision and not to the Railway Transport Authority. I think it's worth it, you can say, basically once again to put these arguments forward. Of course, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this important amendment for the economic market, public transport, local governments, innovation and competitiveness of the economy. This is an amendment that opens up new investment and technical opportunities. It creates conditions that allow for cooperation with research, scientific and technical units with engineering facilities. I think that this is an important contribution to the construction of solutions that may in the future be both our asset and, let's say, a certain projection (The Bell) of the foreign offer. This, of course, is the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Mroczek, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Technical Door and Rail Transport Act. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, by extending the competence of technical supervision, is intended to enable investments in monorails. It must be said that, from this point of view, the project deserves support. Newizations related to the monorail help to overcome all difficulties related to investments faced by projects carried out on the ground or underground, e.g. tram lines or underground railway, metro. There is a good chance that, thanks to the implementation of these projects, it will be possible to avoid all problems affecting transport - especially urban transport - in Poland. There is indeed a chance, provided that these projects in Poland are implemented, that we will be faced with competitive solutions which may prove more effective in terms of urban transport objectives. There's a chance they'll be cheaper as well. For these reasons, as I say, the Civic Coalition Club will support this bill. With regard to the way in which the legal bases are created to implement these intentions in Poland, we have a lot of doubts. In fact, the legal basis we are talking about, which is the basis for implementing these projects in our country... All of this really comes down to the technical supervision equipment with the competence to carry out the task of supervision. The technical conditions to be met by these projects have not been defined at all, so it will be difficult to carry out technical supervision at all. The Minister at the committee meeting said that this is an innovative approach, that only during the crossing of the river will technical conditions be created, which will be defined in the future, established within the Polish legal system. I'm not prejudicing this issue. All I'm saying is that if someone uses a noisy statement that we are introducing legal bases in Poland for the operation of monorail transport, it is good for him to remember that these basics are based on the fact that we indicate that technical supervision will be performed by technical supervision. We're not talking about what... we're not defining technical conditions for technical supervision. For the third time, however, I say that the Civic Platform Club supports the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be said: well, let's start, maybe we can, the case is important, maybe there will be investors, if not for the very unfortunate event that took place yesterday at the meeting of the Infrastructure Commission. On the occasion of this project, which does not raise much doubt and will certainly gain support in terms of the objective itself, it has been tried to introduce a non-unit railway-related settlement into the bill. All the principles of legislative technology have been violated. It would be good if the Marshal of the Sejm - and even the bureau - were interested in yesterday's meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Ministers participating in this meeting supported the violation of the law in Poland, in parliament. That's very sad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u118	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 February, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft law amending the Technical Dosore Act and the Railway Transport Act submitted by the Minister of Infrastructure. The short amendment for the first time in the history of transport in Poland refers to the topic of monorail railway, so-called. monorail. It is about covering these devices with the transport supervision of technical supervision. No further rules are introduced to regulate the standards and technical solutions that would apply to the construction and operation of such railways. The government wants to introduce legislation on a new type of public collective transport, passenger transport equipment or things - moving on one rail or on air or magnetic pillows. It is about the supervision of this type of equipment by transport technical supervision. The Ministry of Infrastructure indicates that this solution is necessary and due to emerging signals regarding the plans for the construction of such public transport vehicles. A short amendment is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws. According to officials, monorails which move on the slopes in a suspended or saddle form on a rail under the vehicle are intended to be an efficient, fast, low-carbon, ecological and competitive means of collective transport. The Ministry in the explanatory memorandum states that the monorail does not require significant and extensive earthworks, compared to the metro, and also does not interfere with the urban structure as strongly as traditional ground means of transport. The advantage is collisionlessness - the vehicle does not have to stop at traffic lights and intersections, and the risk of accidents is minimized. So much for theory. Of course, efficient collective transport is a very important and necessary solution, but before we start building further concrete eskads, taking into account also the fact that concrete production is very non-organic, and in this respect trams seem more efficient, I recommend that the Ministry's attention be given to dealing effectively with the issue of non-functioning rail links between small towns and high, constantly increasing prices of tickets for collective transport. The monorail occurs on almost all continents of the world. According to the data of the resort, there are currently around 56 monorail lines, 26 of which are located in Asia, due to the dense construction, which in Poland is virtually no longer present except for a few exceptions. So far, the monorail has been mentioned in the case of Rzeszów and Górnośląsko-Zęgęgian Metropolis, but these projects have never gone beyond the concept phase. I've been thinking for a long time about what it's really all about to investigate this case. The work of the Infrastructure Committee gave me a lot to think about, and they were implemented in accordance with the old PiS habit of quick legislative contributions, which expose the real objectives of proceding the various laws. 20 minutes before the beginning of the committee meeting, we received amendments from the PiS club, which, as far as the content is concerned, were more extensive than the law itself and even required a change in its title. What was in the amendments? Let me remind you that we are still talking about the monorail transport bill. The first amendment referred to the modernisation of the LAN network and the digitisation of the National Education Network - a task funded by the National Reconstruction Plan, in which among others. EUR 550 million have been secured for this purpose. So they wanted this, completely unrelated to transport, amendment quietly to provide PiS with a huge amount of money without further control. The second amendment referred to the construction of the CEPiK 2.0 system which would also consume giant money, without further consultation and proper parliamentary path. After having raised doubts about the legislative scope of the Left, as well as comments on the obvious lack of link between the amendments and the bill, the Polish Ministry and Members of the Governing Option could not explain themselves from the attempt, in my opinion, to say the least, the swearing of reality and to withdraw from these scandalous amendments without a word of justification. Everything points to the fact that you are frightened by the vision of surrender and the weakening public support that you seek and attempt to seize as much budget money as possible without any control. Fortunately, it didn't work out this time. As a result, the Sejm will be held under the Unified Railway Act without scandalous amendments, which the Left will support in the care for the development of all forms of public transport, but with the feeling that the PiS will adopt abstract law concerning the railway, which will simply not arise in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u120	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Tomczak on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. [[It's me, it's Mieczysław Kasprzak.]] But my mom's report... Mr Kasprzak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u121	Thank you, Marshal. There must have been a change. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland wants to say that we will support this bill. However, it is a very strange law that does not bring anything, it does not solve anything. At first glance, it would seem that we are suddenly solving problems that exist. Monorail railway has been a subject for a long time, for many, many years discussed in Parliament, at committee meetings. Right now, in this bill, we're saying we're gonna control something that's not there. Listeners, interested may think that it is that it has already moved on, but we do not have regulations concerning the technical conditions of monorails. Of course, what we were talking about, so making it easier, cheaper, easier, it all agrees, only that interested local authorities, and such ones. There was a local government in Rzeszow in the person of former President Ferenc, who had been seeking this for many years, had some arrangements, had some ideas in this area, was prepared for investment, but there are no regulations to make it possible, and there will be no further. As for ecology, it is also interesting because we say - as I read in the explanatory statement - that this solution is ecological. It is, of course, in the place of transport, but we in Poland today have 15% organic current, while 85% The current is the black current. For this it will need electricity, because whether it is an air or magnetic pillow, it has a high demand for electricity. So the question is what ecology is going to be like. It will be ecology in 16%, while to the rest it will not be ecological. So that's misleading. I don't know why it's done, because I really don't see the technical point, if that's what it's about, The bill does not raise any controversy, so it can be adopted overnight, while the technical regulations are important, they are important. For many years, local governments have been asking for this, writing petitions, holding meetings of outbound or stationary committees, and there are no solutions. So the question is, what's next? Do we have a vision and want to support those solutions that actually meet expectations in the world, especially in the Asian region? Shouldn't Poland come out here with this initiative, even in Europe? There is an excellent opportunity to demonstrate innovation, good technical solutions. But we will support the bill, although, as I said, it doesn't change anything, it doesn't bring anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Finally, Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u123	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Technical Door and Rail Transport Act after presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the law presented by the government is to introduce basic regulations that will enable the development of vehicles moving on one rail or on air or magnetic cushions, other than those currently used in cable-terpene or rail transport. As we read in the Act and the explanatory memorandum, the draft includes provisions on the basis of which the Director of Transport Technical Supervision will become the competent authority to carry out technical supervision over transport equipment moving on the infrastructure concerned and related technical equipment. This, of course, is an interesting solution, although one thing is technology itself and the other is the prospect of implementation. Technology - I think we are all aware of it - is used in several countries around the world, so it is a numerically limited club, of course. On the other hand, the question whether we have the right powers and knowledge in our country today in terms of building such solutions is an open question. I do not expect this to be a solution that will quickly enter our country, but, of course, the possibility of creating it and working on it is something that is most justified. We will support this project in its entirety. Unfortunately, during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, there was an absolutely shocking situation. Suddenly, out of nowhere, there were amendments, which made it possible for another million zlotys to be removed from the budget, and, of course, Minister Cieszyński, who came out of nowhere at the committee meeting. Fortunately, most people have come to the conclusion that it will not go away, but that obvious disgust remains. And I call on Minister Cieszyński to hold back, because this kind of behavior resembles nothing less, nothing more than what happened to ventilators and masks, and such behaviour in Parliament, and I want to stress with all my power, is unacceptable. Minister! I also want to give literally a few sentences to what is going on about building the CPK and building the railway lines, because today it is something that appears in practice. I must say that today is a very negative, even disgusting campaign. in the Silesian Voivodeship, where officials drive and try to oppose the inhabitants of one village to the inhabitants of another village. There are even such insinuations that if one does not agree, this course will be worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on these officials to be held back, to return to the table of conversations with the residents, and to build railway lines that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u125	...are needed, to arrange culturally...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u127	...not like a neocolonial state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u128	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. First question, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about the Technical Door Act and the Rail Transport Act. We read that the introduction of the proposed solutions will affect the efficiency of public transport, which is of great importance not only for the quality of life of people using it - efficient, fast, low-carbon, ecological, collisionless and competitive transport is also a tangible benefit for local governments. And here comes one question. Central Communication Port: the layout of drawn lines that intersect urbanized areas, cities, run through multi-family buildings, one-family buildings, businesses, green areas, things that are urbanized, decorated - because someone drew a line like that. Question: "Are you going to do this in the same way in the case of this law?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u130	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland, we do not have any manufacturers of rolling stock based on one rail mentioned in the amendment. There is also no adequate infrastructure, including tracks, passenger stations or freight stations. In Poland, we have internationally recognized plants that produce traditional railway vehicles, that I will name even the Bydgoszcz Pesa giving employment to thousands of employees and subcontractors from Bydgoszcz and the surrounding area. I have a question for the Minister, and I ask for a reply in writing: Is the government going to buy transport solutions and rolling stock outside the country and involve budget resources in projects that are only just waiting in the richest countries in the world for this moment? What I said: I will kindly ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I also wanted to ask you about the railway lines that are being built as part of the construction of the Central Communication Port. Well, in the Silesian Voivodeship, as I have already emphasized in the club's speech, it is so very, I want to call it mildly, so I will say: a disgusting campaign. First of all, the inhabitants of one village are being set on the inhabitants of another village. There is even some kind of blackmail: if the locals do not agree with the course of the line, the representatives say that they will go to another village and agree there, so this course will be worse. Minister, I wanted to ask you how long this campaign of fueling hatred and stinging the inhabitants of one village on the other villagers will continue. Secondly, do you really want to make it easier to take over often a father handed over from generation to generation, introducing new rules (The Bell) that will make the owners have to pack in the proverbial 5 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr President, you really do extend, and I patiently...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u135	...and be deprived of their property? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u136	Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u137	Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! I'm not directly on the subject of the bill today. I wanted to use the Minister's presence to ask what was going on in Goczalkowice-Zdrój, and to draw attention to it. You're doing a new investment there, revitalizing the railroad. For today you are destroying the historic station in Goczalkowice-Zdrój. Self-government is protesting. Your uncle, Goczałkowice-Zdrój, protests, sends letters to you. Monument preserver grabs his head. And you're building this historic station, revitalized by money from the European Union, some horrible screens. Minister, I ask you very much to look into this to stop it because you are doing irreversible damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u138	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u139	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government has proposed rules that facilitate the creation of monorails, i.e. so-called. monorail. It's a good solution, but in exceptional cases. It works well, for example. as a railroad linking airports with cities, as is the case in Tampa, Florida, Tokyo or, for example, Tokyo. Paris. The construction of monorails is interested, among others. Upper Silesian-Dutch metropolis and various other local authorities. Monorail is a good addition to the existing transport network, but we should not treat it as a substitute for railways, buses and trams. Infrastructure must be treated comprehensively. We need to think about her holistically, not sectorically. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry think about supplementing the law on solutions for two-system trams, i.e. one that can ride both urban and railway rails? It is a solution good for agglomeration rails and whole (Bell) urban systems. This is what he has been calling for for for years, among others. city of Poznan and experts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u140	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u141	Last sentence, Marshal. During the reconstruction of post-pandemic transport, priority must be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u143	Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u144	Mr President, and you continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u145	Did I say last sentence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u146	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: Is the government working on a comprehensive solution, apart from this law, of course, in terms of technical data, the technical solutions for monorails that we are discussing here? I'm going back to my earlier speech. Rzeszów is very interested in this subject. It's been going on for years and there's no progress. When can we expect solutions in this regard? Second question. Do you have any idea how many local governments in Poland would be interested in such solutions? Do they make such proposals, such needs? Apart from Rzeszow, of course, because Rzeszów has been proposing these solutions for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u148	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the reason why this law with such solutions is being introduced at the moment? I hope it's not what happened at the committee meeting yesterday. It is these amendments that were to be tabled. Luckily, someone came to their senses and pulled out of it. The second question is how many local governments - because they really want to build these things - is today interested. What information do you have, whether from the level of the voivodship or from the level of individual municipalities? How's it look? How many solutions are there today? In which cities? Are they really urbanly prepared to build this type of railroad? Are there any development plans? Does the studies previously developed involve such investments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A few weeks ago, we heard about the vision of high-speed railways that will be built in Poland in public television news. That'll cut the route halfway between big cities. Now we're bringing in new technology for monorail transport. We feel that Poland is a state-of-the-art state. Meanwhile, 40 years ago, 4.5 hours drove from Wroclaw to Warsaw, and today there are 4.5 hours, except for pendolino, which travels less than 4 hours, once a day. The regional railroad is unwanted because it's scarce and nobody wants to finance it. Why, of course, $12,000. For 30 years, we barely renovated what was built in socialism and in the 18th century, in the 19th century on western lands. Please tell us why (the bell) we will not improve what is, and we are looking for unknown solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This law is, of course, an accident act which reflects trends in the possible development of monorails in Poland, namely technical supervision, technical supervision. The justification is that, when it comes to the monorail, there are 56 lines in the world, 26 of which are in Asia. On the other hand, we are planning 30 new monorail lines, which are in the process of construction, testing or conceptual planning. I wanted to ask what is the result of the diagnosis of the Ministry: are these plans of state-owned companies, whether these are plans of local governments, whether these are plans of corporations, e.g. as part of a public-private partnership? Where is the construction of monorails planned in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing an important bill today, but we cannot deal with the completion of what we started. In Silesia, Minister, it's boiling. Self-governments, residents of municipalities, powiats, but also villages go out into the streets, protest. He protests the city of Mikołów, protests the municipality of Wyra, protests the city of Orzesz, protests Czerwionka-Leszczyny, the city of Żory, Katowice - these are the last accounts. People go out on the streets and protest. They're protesting because you can't agree on the speed line 170 to the Central Communication Port. Minister! From here I ask you: How do you want to solve this problem? How are you gonna explain to people the need to build this line? Why isn't there a dialogue in this community, the second or the third, only people are being seduced (the Bell) on each other? They're blocking the streets, the highways. Minister, it's time to get to work and take care of this problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From the fact of proceding and - I am convinced - the adoption of this law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport would be very pleased if he were in office, President Rzeszow Tadeusz Ferenc, there is no doubt. For he was and is a advocate of a railway moving on one rail, and he was very eager for this law and sought it. I think that's an interesting solution. Do we have a signal at this stage in terms of construction concepts, interest in this issue in the country? It's about signals beyond what I know about Rzeszow, which I had the opportunity to observe. I watched videos about how this railroad moves, setting its route, because I was the Councillor of the City of Rzeszow very strongly supported the President (The Bell) on this issue. I wanted to ask for some examples from the country. It is about confirming whether these signals are and what is the interest of local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there are no monorails for this simple reason that there is no law. Neither will the law itself build railways, because regulations are still needed, standards are adopted and many other things are needed. I would ask the Minister for brief information on further work on this bill. Poland is interested as a country, Polish local governments are interested in such additional transport equipment. The development of transport will certainly be determined in the coming years by factors such as the relatively small energy that is needed for the transport of these vehicles, and the low collision with the existing transport infrastructure (the Bell). Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u161	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing a draft law which is to introduce basic regulations concerning the carriage of persons or things moving around the so-called. One rail. This is certainly a step in the right direction, because any action to improve public transport deserves attention. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to this occasion and ask about issues related to declining narrow-track transport. For many years, narrow-tracks were the basic, sometimes the only form of public communication for very small towns. Today this transport has basically collapsed, and in many places it is no longer possible to reproduce. There are also remnants of his characters, among others. Śmigielska Kolej Wąskotorowa, but very often they are run by local governments, by associations and are underfunded. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what is the future of narrow-track railways? What's the vision? Does the Ministry have a vision? What is their strategic weight and, as a result, what are their financial opportunities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u162	Thank you. And Mr Czesław Mroczek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The monorail will not build this bill or future law or regulation. These projects will be implemented by investors, provided that they have financial resources for this purpose. The applicants indicate that they are already willing to carry out such projects, so I ask you to tell us what these are for those who are willing, whose intentions you have come to know. But let us be clear that in Poland, the investor who can carry out these projects will be the government or city council of big cities. Are there, therefore, any assumptions regarding financial support for the implementation of these projects, the support of local authorities? Because as I read the justification of this bill, it is clear that you are pointing out that these are projects that fit the local government, that you will drop these projects on the local government, and certainly rightfully. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But is there an instrument of government support for these tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u164	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel to answer the questions raised by the ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely pleased with this extremely interesting discussion, which I had the opportunity to listen to during the procession of this section of the Sejm. I have the impression that when you go to the needs of the local government and do it to the government, then you are immediately criticized for going to the needs of the local government. So you can say that every good initiative will be punished and I have the impression that this discussion has gone this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, two local governments have indicated whether one association, one local government, has been seeking for years issues related to monorail and as a result of these procedures, discussions, first the definition of monorail, monorail railway, has been included in the collective transport bill - you probably remember this - so this is not the first discussion about monorail in parliament at the statutory level, not just the committee or assumptions. And this is the second step, because we have come to the conclusion that it is worth responding to this expectation precisely because the local government responsible for urban or metropolitan communication within the metropolitan union, if such expectation and desire is serious, is to have a chance to benefit. There is no monorail in Poland, there is no associated experience. There is no special Polish technology, produced by Polish engineers, it does not exist. Then you'd have to use the outside. To answer the questions of all those who are talking about technical regulations, I will explain that if the Ministry of Infrastructure, the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure, were to describe the technology, they would have to judge in many cases how this tool, this means of transport to construct, and should be decided by those who want such transport in their specific urban or agglomeration structure. Because any such solution is tailor-made. It can be said that there are two technologies in Europe: Alwega or SAFEGE and they are applicable. That's what we need to make rolling stock for. Whether the rolling stock will produce PESA or someone else will decide who will order. And this is the answer to the question about the technical aspects of this solution, because in our opinion all the elements of this infrastructure are possible to build on the basis of a building permit, each element. Plus, you will need supervision of a kinetic device that will carry out transport technical supervision. Of course, you could say that's not enough. You can always say that, it's a standard saying that's not enough. But if someone wants to apply this system, implement it, we do not rule out that, on the basis of such experience, procedures will be created, described, which will connect with it in the next step. Because the fact that local governments said they wanted to, that's good, so now they have a chance to translate the language of the concept into technical solutions. I was particularly amazed to say that this would be an ecological solution in 16%. It could be said that in total the Polish railway is green in 16%, so let's not develop it, let's wait until the energy is 100% It's organic. So? That's, I think, a pretty far-fetched argument that would be in the discussion. Mr Szopiński asked if we were going to buy or if the government was going to buy. No, he's gonna buy the investor as he sees fit. And that's the answer to the question, I don't think there's anything to even make it in writing, because it's pretty clear. The investor always decides. Will we support the investor? The Government of Law and Justice supports local governments in many fields and in many solutions. We have many programs in which we support local governments and, of course, to each of them, if possible, local authorities will be able to apply. This is also the answer to the question whether we will support local governments. I will not answer questions about CPK, because you know very well that this is not about this project. I am sure that this concept will be developed in a way that will interfere as little as possible in space... [[But this is an opportunity for the Minister to answer normally.]] ...and on principle... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and on principle... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u166	What's with the yelling? [[Voice from the room: Best in writing.]] Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Yes, of course, if you wish, then the representative of the government will answer your questions in writing, there is no problem. Don't be nervous. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Please don't put matters in such a way that there will be no answer to questions, because there will be an answer to questions. [[Voice from the room: Okay, we're waiting.]] The government answers the questions, the Ministry of Infrastructure answers the questions thoroughly. There's no problem. [[Voice from the room: Self-governments write and do not receive...]] I do not know a case in which in the area of my property I would not answer the question that this here also sounds clear. Finally, of course, we are also involved in rail transport. Mr Dyduch mentioned this on behalf of the Left Club. I will say so, the arrears in the Polish railway are great, of which there is no doubt. Maybe they'd be smaller if the left hadn't destroyed the railroads. Maybe it would be good if there was a vision of investing in the Polish railroad - well, it wasn't. We have to face it now. We carry out railway programmes which face this problem: the national railway programme, the railway investment programme, the railway Plus programme, the stop programme, the maintenance programme, in general the first time adopted in the history of the Republic of Poland. There seems to be a lot of programs for railroads. The CPK program was mentioned by the gentlemen themselves. I hope that this law will be adopted and that thanks to these solutions the investor will be able to translate his expectations into technical language, the language of technical solutions. Perhaps we have written insufficiently clear, although in my opinion quite clearly, on the other side of the justification that these twenty-several or thirty cases of interest concern the whole world and not Poland. This is information about the development of this technology around the world. It seems pretty clear to me, but as it is said, when you read your justification a hundred times, it is clear to you, for someone else it may be unclear. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I would also kindly ask the rapporteur of the committee to answer the questions raised. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A few additional comments on the questions addressed to the Government. Most of them were obviously concerned with the draft law, some of which went beyond, and I will not respond to the latter. Referring again to the Minister's speech, I would like, first of all, to quote again the main objective of the proposed law and to repeat what Minister Bittel just described a little bit more, namely that the aim is not to introduce specific technical solutions which these devices would fulfil. It's just been emphasized here. Secondly, at present there is no legislation, including technical regulations, at European Union level, which would regulate the technical requirements for the construction and operation of the equipment in question. This is the translation of this regulation, in this technical part, into the language of practice, into the language of the investor. Of course, the main target of this project is urban agglomerations, which signalled the intention to undertake such work. In fact, this law goes against the discussions and certain concepts which appeared at the level of the metropolitan union in the Silesian voivodeship, i.e. Górnośląsko-Załęgian Metropolis. I think this will also apply to several other agglomerations, in this capital or for example. Tri-city. This law, it is written in the explanatory memorandum, but it is also in my view as rapporteur and vice-president of the Committee on Infrastructure, will also naturally strengthen the projects, saying colloquially, over-local, will build certain associations of cities that can, say, simply prepare such technical solutions. Of course, this raises the question of how these investments can be supported from sources other than local government budgets or loans taken by local government units or cities. The Minister spoke of this, and these projects are potentially not excluded from strong public support, when it is simply this phase in which certain assumptions and concepts will be translated into the language of practice. Finally, I would like to say one more thing - I think it is obvious to those who, shortly enough, have read - that the regulations contained in this amendment concern only the extension of the scope of the Transport Technical Supervision competence in the area of technical supervision over devices for transporting persons or things moving on one rail or on airbags, which is something that has not yet been included in the Polish legal system. This is precisely the solution to meet the needs of these agglomerations and local government units, which have worked on such assumptions or concepts. I think, among other things. for these reasons, all parliamentary clubs present at yesterday's committee meeting, their representatives were present at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, supported this proposal, this government implementation, which I can enjoy. As rapporteur, I would just like to mention at the end that this discussion, which took place to a small extent, concerned some proposals for supplementing this draft law. There were suggested, among others. amendments to the Transport and Traffic Law Act. They were withdrawn by the Minister after consulting our parliamentary club. I think that they will simply wait for a sensible parliamentary or government initiative to actually have the scope that would be covered by these changes (the bell) go beyond this government presentation. Thank you for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u168	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts (prints No. 1998 and 2026). I would very much like to ask Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending the Act on occupational retirement schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, print No 1998. On 8 February 2022, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading. The aim of the project is to facilitate the conduct of occupational pension schemes for employers, to simplify the arrangements for employers to conclude agreements, to introduce favourable changes concerning the terms of participation in the programme, to define certain powers of financial supervision, to introduce a new legal institution: to transfer measures, to amend the rules governing the suspension and reduction of the basic contribution in order to remove interpretation doubts, to facilitate the conclusion of contracts for the operation of individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts by enabling them to be entered into electronically and to adapt the other provisions of Article. 13a Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. During the committee's work, a number of editorial corrections were made with the participation of the government. One amendment, which was put to the vote during the committee's work, concerned the parallel introduction of the paper route, although the main intention of the law is to rely on the improvement of electronic services. However, this amendment was rejected. On the other hand, the date of implementation of this law is a significant correction. It's about changing from April 1 to June 1. Of course, it is a key part of this law, which will also make it easier to prepare for its introduction from the point of view of electronic programmes, and will enable all constitutional actors to participate in the legislative process in the constitutionally required time limits. The Commissions: Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 22 February 2022, ask the High Sejm to adopt this law as presented in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u170	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From a perspective of several years since the introduction of joint savings schemes for future pensions, some shortcomings in the legislation have been revealed, resulting in a lower interest of workers in this form of saving and perhaps also a lower efficiency of this form of saving. The proposed government bill amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, No. 1998, concerns the laws which constituted the legal basis for the functioning of PPE and the employee capital plans. The draft contained in this printing responds to these problems which have been highlighted during the practical application of the regulatory provisions. These results from the experience of both supervisory authorities, employers and financial market operators managing these programmes. Some of these changes proposed by the Ministry are also due to the need to promote access to the electronic communications system. I would like to remind you at this point that at the end of 2020, according to KNF data, more than 630 000 participated in the PPE. the total amount of pension savings collected by this route was about PLN 17 billion. These programmes were managed by 30 financial institutions and applied to 2370 employers. The advantage of this group-based form of savings for future pensions is the voluntary nature of both employees and employers, and financial support for the savings of future pensioners provided by employers. I hope that the legislative changes that have been made will enhance the advantages of this form of saving. The work of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy as a leading body should be commended here for the fact that these problems have been identified and the proposed amendment proposed in a comprehensive manner. The aim of the revision is to make such legislation so that these collective forms of pension savings are simplified, transparent and thus more efficient and attractive for workers as future pensioners. What is this improvement in attractiveness? Among other things, the prohibition on additional contributions has been lifted. It also introduced the possibility of supplementing these contributions with funds other than remuneration received from the employer concerned, which is important in the case of breaks caused by e.g. unemployment or health incapacity. The project also introduces the possibility for the existing manager to transfer funds collected in the PPE to another and sets out the procedures for this transfer. The administrative simplification is to exempt employers from submitting cyclical annual information to KNF and to transfer this obligation to financial market operators which, as a manager, keep accounts of PPE participants, have financial data. Therefore, this is not an excessive burden for managers, and it shifts this obligation from employers. The difficult financial situation of the employer forcing the temporary suspension or limitation of the transfer of funds to the PPE will not require a long-term administrative procedure concerning the registration in the programmes of an agreement on this matter with the representation of employees in the KNF, but will only require notification of this event. The project shall specify the supervisory powers of KNF vis-à-vis employers if it is necessary to amend the programme register or delete them from the register. In order to avoid irregularities in the decision-making of unilateral employers - which is very important - to suspend the contribution and reduce the amount of the contribution, clarification of the rules will include. on the introduction of the maximum statutory duration of one-sided reduction of the employer's contribution up to a maximum of 6 months (The Bell) over a further 12 months. Marshal, I'd just like a moment of extension. Without going into the details of other solutions, I would like to point out that there is a very important issue regarding the closure of the programme. When e.g. no employees are employed or no longer interested in participation, then termination of the works contract takes place. So far, there has been a 12-month period, and we have a proposal for up to 3 months in the amendment. We believe, and I say this on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, that it would be more beneficial to extend this period from 3 months to 6 months. And that's the amendment we make. Overall, the proposed changes will benefit employers, benefit workers and create additional small responsibilities for financial institutions. The Law and Justice therefore support these solutions. We are making the amendment that I have mentioned and two additional rather legislative ones. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your extension, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u172	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u173	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Employee pension schemes form together with employee capital plans a collective form of collecting pension savings organised under the care of employers. PPE is a precursor in this area, as it has been in operation for more than 20 years, the first still under the provisions of the 1998 PPE Act. This additional form of saving, which is PPE, is developing slowly in Poland. In 2004, there was an incentive to transform group forms of savings into pension savings into PPE, and at the turn of 2018 and 2019 there was a new obligation for employers to introduce employee capital plans. This has led many employers, not believing in PPK products, and judging them as less beneficial to employees, to decide to create an PPE. That is why, as we heard from the Minister at yesterday's committee meeting, we have 2370 PPE, in which several hundred thousand people are saved, and the accumulated assets are over PLN 17 billion. After OFE, these assets are the most important long-term pension savings of our compatriots. It's worth taking care of. Therefore, it is with the approval of the draft amendment to the PPE Act, which causes this form of saving to cease to be treated as a stepmother, as the government has done in recent years, preferring, for political reasons, the miraculous child of Prime Minister Morawiecki in the form of PPK, which, however, has not grown up so far to be the young man that was expected. In general, the proposed solutions, apart from a few single issues, go in the right direction and benefit PPE participants as well as, in the case of some changes, employers or PPE service providers. Most of the proposals from the project deserve support because they modernise the PPE and make it a more attractive form of long-term savings. However, a number of issues need to be clarified. The draft amendment does not respond to the biggest problem of the PPE, which is its cannibalisation by the PPK, which, although not successful, is clearly preferred by the current rulers. Why the Polish state today supports savings within the framework of the so-called PPK. An annual payment of PLN 240, and does not do so in the case of PPE? Why doesn't having a newly created PPE exempt itself from having a PPK? Therefore, it would be entirely appropriate to introduce at least provisions that align the PPE's position with the PPK. For today, very few employers decide to create a new PPE, in a situation where such a new PPE does not exempt it from the obligation to create a PPK. In addition, why does the PPK participant have public support and the PPE participant does not? It's worth it, and it's gotta be changed. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It also raises doubts about some changes to the amended law. But I'm gonna focus on two. Amendment 10 introduces the obligation of the employer to report twice to the PFR information on the number of employees. PFR SA is a company with unclear legal status, recognised as an administrative body. It's a new, unnecessary obligation on employers. Information on the PFR in this respect is unfounded. Is the introduction of this change politically chased down by EPP employers for not benefiting from the PPK Act? Amendment 17. of this Act extends the competence of KNF to supervise employers. It is also unjustified to increase the potential disadvantages and control problems for employers. This is an example of a oppressive state which, instead of supporting, imposes new sanctions. In addition, the aim should be to allow further development of the occupational pension scheme which has been hindered as a result of the entry into force of the occupational capital plans system. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition proposes that two solutions be introduced under the revised PPE Act, which will allow for a systematic alignment of the attractiveness of PPE to employers and employees, making the PPE (the bell) actually competitive towards the PPK. These are: the introduction of an exemption from the obligation to create PPKs for employers who, at any time - also now and in the future - create PPE, and the inclusion of an annual payment mechanism for the PPE participant under the same rules as the one-year payment mechanism for PPKs currently exists. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this bill and propose amendments to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u174	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The present edition of the Act amending the Act on Occupational Pensions Programmes and the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and Individual Pension Insurance Accounts is a strictly technical and sequencing project, which brings with it ease as well as alignment with current regulations and technological solutions. There is no doubt that facilitating administrative procedures for employers should, in particular, be a priority for the government in today's economic and economic situation. Entrepreneurs, as well as workers, went through a pandemic period, dealing in many cases alone, without receiving government help. Today, they face inflation, which significantly weighs on Polish and Polish domestic budgets. Today, particularly small entrepreneurs face huge increases in gas and electricity prices and solutions introduced by the government into the so-called. Polish Łada, or rather more appropriate here the term: Polish disorder. We could say that the government finally noted the problems faced by businesses in terms of fulfilling the administrative obligation in respect of occupational pension schemes. The abolition of the most burdensome administrative obligations burdening employers can certainly be counted as a plus. We all agree that full digitalisation is what the public administration should seek. As usual, in the case of laws designed by law and justice, the devil is in the details, because the implementation of the obligations contained in the amendment of the law will now rest on financial institutions, employers and data controllers. Importantly, and this should be noted and stressed in particular, the fact that the changes contained in the printed procedure require appropriate technical preparations and adjustments of the ICT systems, for which not all institutions and employers are equally prepared at the moment. The Ministry may not be aware, but some of the information required by the law is not recorded in popular spreadsheets, but in IT programs. Changes require time, especially with regard to the software used by institutions, and these are ordered in ICT companies. Taking into account that, for the time being, the provisions of the Article. The 7th project provides for the entry into force of the amendments to the Article. 8 The Act of 20 April 2004 on occupational retirement schemes as of 1 June 2022, the deadline for the preparation of software and information infrastructure seems too short. It would be good for the Polish government to seek solutions that it is preparing, helping, not creating additional threats. However, it welcomes the fact that, at yesterday's meeting of the committee, the comments submitted by the staff of the Sejm Analysis Office were in line with the expectations of the members of the joint committees and were taken into account by the Ministry in the vast majority. The left sees the facilitations presented or the issue of making occupational pension schemes more attractive, however, the urgency and legitimate comments made at yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy should be a reason for reflection and re-examination of the time limits in force in the law, their harmonisation, so that each party has time to prepare technical solutions. According to the above, the Left will support the draft law submitted by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts contained in the prints 1998 and 2026. The authors of the project want to make it easier for employers to run occupational pension schemes. It goes on, among other things. to transfer administrative responsibilities to financial institutions that operate programmes. Positive changes will also be made to the conditions for participation in the programme. That's, among other things. the abolition of the optional prohibition on the payment of an additional contribution. The bill also provides for new solutions for individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. One of the new solutions will be to facilitate contracts - it will be possible to conclude them electronically. All of this consists of facilitating employers to run occupational pension schemes. The project abolishes the most burdensome administrative responsibilities burdening employers and I think, High Izbo, that this is such a key argument behind this, the Polish Coalition club will be in favour of further proceeding on this project in committee, because it is a classic example of the removal of barriers, which very often discourages the use of these programs. I think it's worth working on this project, at least it's the club's will. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u178	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am pleased to present on behalf of Poland 2050 our position towards the government bill amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, on which the committee worked yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, I would say, a technical law aimed at simplifying, making it more flexible, increasing coherence between the third parts of the third pension pillar, actually abolishing certain unnecessary administrative obligations imposed so far on entrepreneurs as employers participating in the whole process. The amendment concerns simplifications regarding the conclusion of contracts for occupational retirement provision by amending the administrative decision of the Financial Supervision Authority on notifications, defining the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission to refuse, enter, delete PPE from the register, but also concerns the transfer of funds between different third-party vehicles, voluntary savings such as IKE, IKZE and PPK, including information obligations. What is important is to make voluntary contributions more flexible without the need to declare it to a minimum; to allow individual forms of the third pillar, i.e. IKE, IKZE, in electronic form - this has so far been impossible; to extend the KNF's competence for supervision of employers also in the period after the start of the liquidation of PPE - it also seems in the interest of savers. What does not suit us is a short period of work, because the entry into force of this law, with the exception of a few provisions, is expected to take place on 1 April. The time when we could work here, in the Seym, was minimal, although of course we had to work at an even faster pace, but it is never advisable, because then the minor inconveniences or errors in the whole legislative procedure make us only return with the amendment to the same laws, to the same programs, and employers or participants in this process (the Bell) have additional things to implement. Of course, our recommendation for this project is positive and we will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u180	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When in 1998 the pension scheme was changed from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme, then of course we were against it because we knew that pensioners would get less than they received in the old scheme. Not to mention, you can say quietly the replacement rate was lowered. Now that we are talking about the fact that perhaps in 20 years' time, young people who will retire will have much lower pensions than even those who are now retiring, this is the result of the 1998 reform and the reduction in the replacement rate. In addition, a catastrophic system was introduced, which obliged relatively younger people to save outside the ZUS, in companies that did not have a guarantee of the Treasury. So everything together has made every system and all projects to improve the situation of pensioners, 6 million pensioners, most of whom are now getting low pensions, far too low, both in terms of living costs and too low in relation to the work they have been doing... Therefore, it must be made clear here that it is a great fraud to say that it is now young people who will work for pensioners. That's a lie. Retired people have earned their own pensions and no one has to work for them. They have these pensions in their accounts, they have initial capital and they know exactly how much this pension will be. So now that there are some facilitations in an additional system that will increase your pension in the future, it is very good that this project is. Therefore, the PPS Parliamentary Circle will support this project and we hope that it will be further improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The transfer of funds collected in PPE by the managing authority to the new manager is not a bad direction. We also support, among others. making the conditions for participation in occupational retirement plans more attractive. As far as the participant is concerned, the provision of an additional voluntary contribution is also the right course in this case. Because pension rules in general should also be simplified when it comes to the third pillars. Here we have the possibility to conclude a contract for running IKE or IKZE - that's also a plus. At the same time, we believe that Poland is facing a large spectrum of disaster in the pension system. We see some actions that may have some positive effects. Question: "Is that enough?" In my opinion, however, this is still a drop in the sea of needs. Low natural growth, lack of adequate generation replacement. As you can see, e.g. The 500+ programme did not deliver on this issue and was intended to be a demographic programme in its basic assumption. There's no stimulation. Problems with demography or family crisis these are burning problems and they will actually define what pensions will look like in future generations. Because it is important to remember that, at a given time, a given amount of pension goes into a given economy. The fact that she has been worked out faster is, of course, a fact, she is due for it, as has already been mentioned here. But it goes further in a specific period, but then the money goes into retirement from the economy. That, unfortunately, is something to be remembered here. We also believe that the pension system should be much more modified. We are calling for a Confederation and I remind you of this: civic pensions, based on a minimum of social pensions, which would also allow for the elimination of this pier - which also has its cost of living, which is already taking a lot from the budget - which is the plant. Social security. Of course, the second pillar in this case it's private security, private opportunities that people invest in. We have a lot of financial products today. We have a proverbial set aside for a sock. There are different models of saving for our retirement, and we should stick to that too. The State should only provide a minimum social level in this case. Let us remember that humans are not sheep. This project also does not respond to the challenge that awaits us in the future, i.e. to safeguard against possible mass migration to Poland (the bell) of people of retirement age who, after acquiring pension rights, can emigrate back to each other, but already have these rights and not participate in the financing of the system. That's another thing that's gonna have to be dealt with, probably in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050, asks the first question. You're welcome. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 8, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 introduce an electronic form for the conclusion of an individual pension account or an individual pension security account. That's a very good move. These electronic forms of contracts are becoming more and more common. My question is how these agreements can be concluded. In Poland there are several different models of confirmation of identity in an electronic manner. Is this an exchange of e-mails between the bank, the account operator or the use of the banking system? Will it also be possible to conclude such contracts using a trusted profile, maybe an electronic signature, or maybe an electronic signature obtained in another country, which as well as a Polish qualified electronic signature allows to confirm identity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Robert Obaz, Left. Are you an MP? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the presentation of the positions of the clubs, the issue of compensation between the PPE and the PPK was raised several times. And my question is, do you plan to pay for PPE at all, so that these conditions in both systems are evenly aligned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u188	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the project does not affect the economic and social situation of the family, as well as the disabled and the elderly. Given similar assurances given by the Prime Minister and regarding the Polish Order, Polish families seem to be preparing for some financial shock. I would ask you very much to know whether you have analysed whether the Polish and Poles will lose on this legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft lays down rules for the collection of additional appropriations from payments not coming directly from the remuneration received, which is a good solution. The problem is that Poles have spent years investing money in pension funds, which have been misnomerably called their money, and have lost it many times. This project also does not fully secure these measures. If the project talks about voluntary contributions, why can't their owner establish bank pledges on them, why can't they provide collateral for hypothetical loans or be used as other financial instruments? Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you to answer my questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u192	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the light of the contested law, the obligation to provide annual information on the implementation of the programmes in question is transferred to management entities. They will have to make statements to the State Development Fund twice a year, by 31 January and 31 July, on the number of participants in occupational pension schemes and the total number of employees employed. Entrepreneurs have repeatedly paid attention to unnecessary reporting obligations, but I ask for information on why managing entities will have to report the above. information twice a year. Would it not be sufficient to fulfil this obligation once a year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u194	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question that indirectly relates to this project. Namely, I wanted to ask about self-employed people who are not covered by the occupational pension scheme or PPK. The self-employed are a group of nearly 2 million people who have been forced into this form of employment. I know that in this bill, there is no mention of these people in this project because it is a technical project, but I ask the Minister: Does the government, Minister, intend to cover the self-employed of PPE, PPK or any other programme that would not exclude them from pension support? They need backup. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u196	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and proposed solutions are acceptable both by the PPE participants and by employers. The draft amendment does not respond to the most important problem of PPE, which is cannibalisation, i.e. eating by PPK. Unfortunately, the project is also burdened with the nuisances that the participants have spoken about. It is about imposing additional obligations and requirements on employers, i.e. reporting, reporting twice a year, which is incomprehensible in the context of the fact that all data has e.g. ZUS. That is why the Civic Coalition has tabled an amendment to the law on this matter. The intention is to move absolutely away from this solution (The Bell) because today small, micro and medium-sized companies have different tasks, other goals - they fight for survival in the market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u198	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In the Act on Occupational Pensions in Article. 38 paragraph 3 is added. 3a and 3b, which refer to matters relating to the period of suspension or one-sided reduction in the amount of the contribution paid over a further period of 12 months. This period may not exceed 6 months. This solution is good, but it is further mentioned that interpretation difficulties have been eliminated, that after this period or for this period of suspension the employer does not have to pay the contribution. Isn't this going to be at the expense of an insured employee? However, these are reduced influences from the employer as well. Are these solutions the result of a functional evaluation? Second question: Where does the difference (the bell) in this possible copy on the IKZE between the person employed - 1,2 - and the person running the business - 1,8 ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 24 years ago we introduced commercial pension insurance to enrich poor, small pensions of Poles. After 10 years, the government of Donald Tusk took several dozen billion from this system and began forcing Poles to return to the social pension system. Then a few years went by, and the PiS government again took some billions out of this system, saving the people who were supposed to have these resources, to use them for their own operation. The PPE was introduced first and then the PPK, saying: save again. And people say the next 10 years are coming and you're gonna take that money away from us again. No amendment will force people to save in this formula, because the government, every government that changes this situation, these rules of the game, is unbelievable - and Poland in this matter is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u202	Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, the revised Act on Employee Capital Plans came into force in 2019 and concerns Poles between 19 and 55 years of age, who have a long-term job to save for their retirement when they reach the age of 60. It is a programme which, with the participation of the State and the employer, allows the employee to collect these resources. I have a question for the Minister because it has been running for over two years: How do you assess the functioning of this programme today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u205	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns a draft law which provides for 15% looting funds collected at OFE - he is still in the Sejm, the state has not withdrawn from it. Question: "Will the government give up this project, not surprise us one night and push us through this bad solution that would deprive people of 15%?" resources collected at OFE? This has not been the looting yet, so I expect a clear declaration from the Minister. Second question, Minister. It's about retirement accounts, accounts where savings are held in bonds. Well, inflation today is about 9%. The State offers interest rates on these bonds around 2%. The same applies to 500+, there also about 2% (Bell) These interest rates on these bonds you want to give. Therefore, Minister, why do you encourage people to take advantage of this money? I would very much ask you to answer both questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u207	High Izbo! Minister! I take the opportunity that we're talking about pensions today. I wanted to ask you to remind yourself of those pensioners who do not retire minimum. According to the latest figures of the CSO in 2020, there were more than 330 thousand. persons who have not even had the right to this minimum pension. This number has increased several times over the decade. It's taken, among other things. because people who entered the labour market in the 1990s are now entering their retirement age and working for the so-called '90s'. junkyards and which today do not count for premium and non-contributory periods that are needed to qualify for a minimum pension. The left and I have prepared a bill on this subject - she has a print number 1829. Is the Ministry going to do something about this, or are you going to adopt our bill or propose yours? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u208	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The issue of social security for pensions and their amount is one of the fundamental issues that concerns Polish society. Apart from health, life and health protection of Poles, it seems that this is one of the basic and key issues. Today we are investigating draft laws amending basically three sectoral laws, but these changes are of a technical nature. They are of course needed and this is a step in the right direction, but they are really, I would say, symbolical changes. I would therefore like to ask: Is the Ministry planning any major changes in the pension system? Does the Ministry plan to harmonise PPE and PPK issues, for example in the context of government, state subsidies? This is an extremely important issue, because, as I said, social security issues are not only important from today's point of view of pensioners who face expensive inflation, but also from the point of view of future pensioners who are already wondering what pensions they will get (the bell) and whether they will even get pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u210	Thank you very much. One last question, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, the government states that according to the Financial Supervision Commission on 31 December 2020, only 2370 employers operated the PPE, which was managed by 30 financial institutions. At the time, only 631 761 employees participated in the PPE and the total value of assets accumulated in the PPE amounted to PLN 17 billion. This means that there is a total saving of 30,000 per employee. zł. Will the government therefore support the PPE, even in the same way as in the case of the PPK? Is there anything he can do to make these amounts really significant? Because today there are serious concerns (the bell) that the PPE will bring a very small additional pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u212	Thank you, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all clubs very much for supporting the amendments to the Act amending the Act on Occupational Pensions Schemes and the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and Individual Pension Insurance Accounts. These are important changes in ordering the system regarding the additional form of the social security system. Of course, we could recall the history of working on different solutions, starting with the second pillar, which was OFE. We know the effect of that was uninteresting. After all, money was taken out of the system and it was certainly not a good solution. Later we had just employee retirement plans and they are continued, also individual pension accounts and additionally individual pension security accounts. The last change is employee capital plans. These forms of voluntary savings for future retirement functioned or functioned. We are making changes in occupational pension schemes to improve the situation of occupational schemes, but also to facilitate the functioning of these schemes in terms of employers and, on the other hand, to encourage more people to participate in these programmes. According to the information already provided here, over 631 000 use these programmes. persons, 2370 employers. This condition is quite stable for today. We hope that the changes we are introducing will contribute to a greater interest in occupational pension schemes. The total resources that are collected amount to PLN 17 billion. As far as IKE is concerned, this is 13 billion PLN for IKE - 5240 million PLN. Here, too, I would like to explain immediately that this difference in terms of write-down issues, in the case of economic activity, increases in the limit to 1.8 times the average monthly wage forecast, as a result of the fact that in the case of business there is no possibility to participate in occupational pension schemes, i.e. PPK. That's why it's different. There were a few questions about... Firstly, when it comes to the question of the Member relating to electronic forms, it is about simplified forms, it may be an email, it may be a signature qualified to this extent, so we have the maximum simplification of this system. As regards the relationship between the PPK and the PPE, here an important change concerns what is currently functioning, i.e. the reporting system, reporting by employers twice a year. This is due to the fact that in the case of employee capital schemes there is a limit. If the PPE participates 25% Crews, that's when you don't have to set up a PPK. And because this system is so constructed, twice a year it has to be verified. A good solution is to suspend contributions. Employers were often forced to liquidate the PPE, even if due to the situation of their company - this was particularly good during the pandemic period - so we are making such a change that the employer will be able to suspend the withdrawal of contributions for a period of 12 months, but will not have to sign out of the PPE programme, which is also another positive solution. The incentive system we have put in place concerns employee capital programmes. The committee meeting asked how many people were involved in this project. At the moment, around 2.5 million people are taking part in the PPK, i.e. about 30% of the employees. As regards the question of the so-called. Money pensions, of course, is a wider problem. It follows from the 1998 reform of the social security system. Then, after the transition to a system that means that each of us has a pension account, collects on its own capital, we begin to get people who have so-called. welfare pensions. And there are various proposals here, and of course it must be taken into account that pensions are calculated on the basis of someone working and paying contributions to the pension scheme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this case, it is similar. Low pensions are also due to the fact that the person has a short period of internship or - there are such situations - only one pension contribution has been paid. We would like to propose such solutions here, so that there is an adequate retirement pension entitlement to benefits. I think that this will also be the answer to the future, which is not resolving the situation which is now, because this system has been working, as I said, since 1998. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u214	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law (prints Nos 2000 and 2025). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present to the High House the report of the committee on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Act - Energy Law, Parliamentary Printing Nos 2000 and 2025. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, Marshal of the Sejm sent this draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The Commission carried out its first reading and considered this proposal at its meeting yesterday, i.e. 22 February 2022 One substantive amendment and legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Office of the Sejm were tabled to the parliamentary proposal. The Commission accepted these amendments. The amendments proposed in the Act aim at supplementing and clarifying the provisions of the Act of 10 April 1997 in order to ensure the effective performance of the duties of an independent transmission system operator on a gas transmission network which it does not own while respecting the property rights of the owner. This will consist in the fact that the operator will have the right to make exclusive use of the assets of the network owner in part necessary to fulfil the operator's obligation, including the transmission of gas fuels. The Act clarifies the method of financial settlement between the operator and the owner in connection with the operator's use of the assets. During the committee meeting, it was clarified that the draft law, after adoption, would allow an independent operator, by increasing its competence, to effectively carry out the obligations imposed on him by European law. And this is especially about our Jamaican pipeline. Therefore, on behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I request that the High Sejm adopt the draft law annexed to the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club against the law amending the Energy Law. The rapporteur said that the law would allow the rules of connection to the network to be regulated, as well as the possibility to give the possibility of obligation, to define the area of operation of the system operator, the relationship between the owner of the transmission, gas and transmission system operator. During the committee's work there was a very interesting discussion. We have also learned that this bill is needed in order to make investments. The current rules have actually blocked the possibility of changes, because the company's statutes did not provide for the possibility for the Polish party - despite the majority of its shares - of certain operations, the full use of this pipeline, as well as some kind of modernisation. The distribution of costs and profits was determined so that also with regard to all decisions that without the consent of all shareholders it was not possible to carry out the operation. The protest of the part of Europol Gaz came to the committee because this company is Polish-Russian, signed by Russian board members who disagree with these solutions, which will make it more flexible for the Polish state to use the gas pipeline. In the committee, the vast majority of Members supported this proposal. And thank you for that, because it is really necessary - for our security and gas sovereignty. It can be said that today, looking at what is happening in Russia, we can see that this kind of regulation will give us a wider opportunity to manage our assets. The amendment was also mentioned in respect of property rights, so that as a Polish country, we could use this transmission pipeline as a country in the interests of our consumers and citizens. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for the interesting discussion and support of the vast majority of Members for this project. I hope the High House is ready to announce this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paul Pontylius, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is all true, what Mr Suski just said. There's just a few problems. Firstly, the justification of this project did not say what this change was really about, that it was about recovering the Polish section of the Jamal pipeline, so that the operator on this section was Gaz-System and that tariff applications could be submitted to the Energy Regulatory Office just Gaz-System, not EuRoPol GAZ. EuRoPol GAZ is a specific company created in the 1990s, resulting from such a rotten compromise: 48% - Gazprom, 48% - PGNiG and 4% - Gas-Trading, which was really divided between two shareholders. On the other hand, what Mr Suski did not say, we only learned during the work in committee, namely that a letter was received from the Russian representation in EuRoPol GAZ, i.e. representatives of Gazprom at EuRoPol GAZ. That's what the committee didn't know. There are some arguments here that we haven't even had a chance to get to know. Nor could we ask Minister Naimski what he thought about these arguments. This is bad practice. It seems that what affects the chairman of the committee should be available to practically every member of the committee, but this time it did not. I don't know if you were afraid of anything about making this document available, or if it was something else. What hangs a little over us - Minister Naimski did not resolve these doubts either - it is a question of whether they threaten Poland's arbitration proceedings before international courts because de facto EuRoPol GAZ is incapacitated on the Polish section of the Jamal pipeline. Because we need this pipeline to distribute gas to different parts of the country. It does not have to be that after 1 January 2023 this gas will flow from the east. Already today, it flows from the western side very often on the reverse. That doesn't mean we can do whatever we want with this pipeline. I asked Minister Naimski, I asked the applicant's representative whether the risks related to the precedent of the ownership of the pipeline were assessed at all. There was no clear declaration on this issue, and I think that this issue of the risks that exist in the Senate should sound in the course of parliamentary work. Mr Naimski, of course, assured us that this was not the first agreement to entrust to Gaz-System and that the Russian side was not satisfied because of it, but on the other hand, today no effective arbitration has been lost by the Polish party, so it is the only risk. However, I think that there is no one in this room who does not wish that all pipelines transporting gas in Poland should be under the control of Polish companies, and here there is no resistance from the Civic Coalition to accept these changes. We only signal the risks associated with arbitration and the claims that may arise on the side of dissatisfied Gazprom. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the issues raised in the committee have already been addressed to the High House. Indeed, this draft law deals with ownership issues, connection issues, the area of operation of operators, their responsibilities, powers, and there are several issues - as the previous speaker mentioned - which he has long explained, as mentioned, Minister Naimski, in respect of which it would be worth checking whether there would be any provision that would protect us more from arbitration proceedings, as well as whether it would actually expose us to any specific losses. As of today, the Left - after dispelling the doubts that I have just said - will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u223	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Coalition Poland will support this bill because it is a form of clarification of regulations and what is in our energy strategy. The comments from our side are that, first of all, this project was suddenly thrown in because it appeared from day to day, and secondly, if it is not controversial, if it is so obvious and everyone supports it, then why are we proceeding in parliamentary rather than government mode. Because from a regulatory point of view it is This is a very important law - very important - and I think it should be a project and it would have been asked to be a government project because we are deciding on an infrastructure that is important for the energy system, especially at the moment when there is quite a lot of discussion about gas prices and the risks of gas supply, because we hear about it all the time. And all of a sudden, there's a Parliamentary project coming out of nowhere, which, at first glance, when you read the title and the content, it's hard to understand, because it's written in such a complicated way. But maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. We will support this bill because I think that clarification of these issues is important, important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u224	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. Ladies and gentlemen! Energy security is one of the key challenges for our country. The need for reasonable action in this matter becomes important when we take into account the conditions under which we live today. On the one hand, the way to achieving climate neutrality, the associated decarbonisation of energy, on the other hand, difficult market conditions, uncertain international situation. We have no doubt about the importance of gas for individual customers and for industry. In the coming years, however, gas will certainly become important as a transitional fuel. The Institute of Strategies 2050 points out that the problem of ensuring adequate generation capacity for the country will increase from around 2025, i.e. in a moment's time, because this year many old coal power plants will start shutting down. Investments in RES and energy storage will not be able to ensure adequate stability of the system during this period, and by the mid-30s a few gigawatts of natural gas-based power should be created in Poland and this will continue until 2050. Only a combination of RES, gas and storage, combined with modernization and expansion of transmission and distribution networks, will address the challenge of decarbonising energy while maintaining security of supply. And this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at introducing legal bases that will enable de facto tasks to be carried out in order to increase the potential of Poland in the field of gas distribution, in the field of energy security. In practice, it is about enabling Gaz-System, i.e. the gas pipeline operator, to submit tariff applications or to prepare pipeline development plans. And indeed, yesterday at the committee meeting, this discussion was, I would say, interesting, also because - and this is a flaw of this law - after having read the justification in principle You don't know what it's all about. It is a language that we would rather avoid in the Seym documents, in the draft laws, which should, however, have some precision and concreteness in their message. We didn't have that here. Of course, I will also raise doubts about the possible consequences of certain compensations. We don't have full clarity here, and it's definitely a scratch. Nevertheless, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will support this project as moving towards increasing energy security (Dawn) in the field of gas supply of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act of 10 April 1997 - Energy law regulates all matters relating to energy policy in the country. The Act sets out the principles of supply of fuels and energy, the principles of the State's energy policy and the powers and principles of operation of the President of URE. The amendments proposed in the Act relate to the rules of connection to the gas network, i.e. not concluding a network connection contract when another gas pipeline is to be connected to the pipeline and the operator of both pipelines is the same gas transmission company. There are changes in other provisions of the Energy Law relating to the operator, and related e.g. with powers and responsibility for issuing the terms of connection, responsibilities and area of operation of the transmission system operator, as well as contracts and implementation with transmission or distribution network owners. There are also changes in the decision of the President of the URE to determine the content of contracts and their changes involving transmission system operators, as well as their assets and remuneration, licences for the transmission of gaseous fuels, including for a company whose sole shareholder is the State Treasury. According to the Sejm Analysis Office, the draft law is not contrary to EU law. The draft law does not entail a burden on the budget or the budgets of local government units. It does not provide for legislation, does not affect the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. The rise in prices of energy carriers, the difficulties associated with COVID and the strong, non-justifiable differences in gas supply prices depending on the region of the country make it necessary to react and regulate the provisions of the Act - Energy Law. Therefore, as the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy we consider the above mentioned. the project is justified and we request further investigation of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u228	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the submission from print No. 2000, the draft law on the amendment of the Act - Energy Law. Of course, energy is a very important element of state security, and this is a parliamentary project. It's weird not to be a government man. The justification does not fully explain the importance of this regulation. Here, too, I will raise the remark that fell from the speaker: there is no presentation of the OSR, which would have happened if it were a government project. The industry assessment is that the Polish side wants to end the history of disputes with Gazprom. Gas contracts with the Russians expire, but a Polish section of the Jamaican pipeline is to be used to distribute gas more effectively across the country, including the Baltic Pipe and LNG terminal in Świnoujście. Jamal is to be functionally incorporated into the Polish system, which is of course justified. However, the real change will take place at the beginning of 2023, i.e. in a year's time. With the assumption of leaving the purchase from the East, approx. 9 billion m disappears. We have six years of PiS rule. We still do not have ensured diversification of gas supply, lack of full, thought out and above all implemented raw materials and energy strategy in Poland. He's supposed to be Baltic Pipe. He's not here yet. There's supposed to be a nuclear power plant, there's still no nuclear power station, and we don't know when it's gonna be. Nuclear energy is very important in the context of ensuring energy security for Poland. Russia is blackmailing all of Europe with Russian gas. Despite the temporary suspension, ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt that Nord Stream 2 will be launched sooner or later, because it is only a temporary political criticism from Germany, but this gas will flow there. So to conclude: Poland's energy security is still at risk and poses a challenge for the current government, for the current political elites. Let's be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u230	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. Time - 1 minute. [[There isn't.]] Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the experience of the last 2 years, the Constitutional Authority was unable to settle a properly submitted licence application for one of the well-known entities. Any concession proceedings in our country will be subject to a huge risk, and the entity submitting such a request will be at the mercy or disfavor of political forces unduly interfering with the economy. I would like to politely ask what will happen if the transmission network owner who is simultaneously a transmission system operator does not receive a concession or loses the favor of the current power. Will it be forcefully expropriated from its assets, forced to transfer infrastructure to another entity, or will the region be deprived of gas supply until another operator has built up the transmission network? Dear Minister, I know this is a parliamentary project, but I'm gonna ask you to answer my questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u233	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I would ask you to answer in writing what happened to those measures which Polish mining recovered from Gazprom in compensation for overpriced gas prices. This is a few billion, about PLN 6 billion. The question is, what happened to these measures? And the second question is: What investments are planned by the government in the area of gas storage in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u234	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A few questions. For a long time, at the moment there is a discussion due to tensions in Ukraine, that gas supply to the West, including Poland, can be stopped at any time. Are we prepared for this, and what will happen in this situation? That's one thing. The second - is Jamal running gas at the moment? How long does it last? To what extent is it used? And the third thing, maybe not directly connected, but since we're discussing the connection to the gas grid... Connections for individual users to the network have been suspended. Polska Spółka Gazownictwo has stopped connecting to the network, newly built by Poles buildings cannot join the network until the end of 2023. What are you planning next, because this really is very problematic and difficult for those who have undertaken to invest in their own apartments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u237	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recent weeks have shown very clearly that the Polish energy market is some complete pathology. One operator sometimes owns a network, sometimes only a gas supplier, and sometimes both at the same time. How are you going to protect consumers in this mess? Every now and then people come to me asking me why their bill has increased by 200% and their neighbors by 20%. Minister! What are you gonna tell them? What kind of solutions do you see? Is there any real compensation planned? Why instead of clear communication We're seeing a pathetic billboard campaign with a light bulb that's lying. We have a very difficult time connected, among others. with the situation in Ukraine. Why is Poland still buying gas and coal from Russia, and the PiS government hasn't done anything about it in six years? We need a fair energy transition for yesterday. This is the only way both for low prices (the Bell) and security in the face of the climate crisis and threats from the East. What are you waiting for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u239	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Proceded amendment of the Act - Energy Law is very important. All changes related to the possibility of increasing the use of gas fuel, the possibility of obtaining technical connections and faster technical conditions - this is very important. Last year showed it was record-breaking. Over 260,000. technical conditions, I think it's exceeded the wildest expectations. That's a very big increase. This is due to government incentives and programmes that have been carried out in the field of gasification. This, of course, resulted in the exhaustion of the first funding for the period 2022-2023. Do you see the possibility of increasing funds for this year? The idea is not to stop investing in gas connections and to increase them even more - what the government has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u240	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! During the debate on this bill, I wanted to ask about matters directly related to it. Namely when will the government present a strategy for the development of the gas system in Poland to the Sejm? Today, apart from galloping gas prices, it is difficult to answer the following questions. It is about building new gas transmission networks, replacing existing networks with larger cross-sections. Many cities have problems eliminating low emissions, e.g. Szklarska Poręba located in a national park, where there is no gas, and it is hard to wait to deliver its larger quantities. What's next with the suspended decisions to connect the facilities to the gas grid? What is the state's gas policy? Cities need this information in order to be able to implement their heating programmes (The Bell), to eliminate low emissions. The government should provide such an answer in a short time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act amending the Energy Law aims to introduce new rules for connection to the network, as well as the granting of concessions for gas connections. My question is as follows, Minister: What are the specific contracts for the supply of gas today via Baltic Pipe since 2023 in connection with the closing agreement for the supply of gas from Russia through the Jamaican pipeline? Will the Polish state provide adequate gas supplies to Poles? Because already today, ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs who send me information receive letters from a Polish gas company, which writes: According to art. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 of the PSG Regulation announces that, on the basis of data relating to the activities performed, the PSG (The Bell) has classified the company as a category of customers subject to a 12th degree of power limitation. This means that the company can be cut off from the gas. It is a company that carries out service, commercial and production activities in the food industry. How is this company supposed to function when it gets today - this is a letter from January this year - a statement that it can be cut off from gas supply? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is undoubtedly right to separate matters related to ownership and operatorship and strengthen our position, but... It's Jamal's. He will have specific tasks and theoretically we have a secure shipment from Baltic Pipe, from the western direction, from the gas terminal, but please, Minister, tell about the second type of gas, LPG, which residents so commonly use to heat their homes, companies, etc. We are already hearing that from the Russian direction this gas is very limited, and perhaps due to the geopolitical situation it will be limited to zero. Therefore, what about those customers of LPG, liquid gas, for heating, but also for cars, for transport? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have a secure western direction? Will we make it possible to produce this gas in Poland? Are we going to use instruments that, as a result of the price increases of this gas... If it comes from an alternative direction, from the western direction, it will probably happen. The point is that it's also cost-effective for households. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u246	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law deprives EuRoPol GAZ, which is the common property of Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry and Russian Gazprom, the possibility of operating with the Jamal pipeline in our territory. You want Gaz-System to use this pipeline in Poland. However, since the Russians once had problems with the specific provisions of the trust agreement and the last version was contested by the Russian part of EuRoPol GAZ, there is a risk that Poland may be threatened by the so-called. the polonization of the jamal gas pipeline some arbitration procedures on the part of Russia. Has this been taken into account and has this (the bell) possible been prepared? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u248	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! After the first reading of the Act under consideration today, the question was raised to me whether these financial regulations relating to connection costs, as provided for in this Act, would concern final recipients. In particular, there were questions about individuals who are connected as final recipients. They expect in a commentary on this law, when it is adopted, to answer the question whether or not the costs of connecting individuals to the network will increase or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Polska Spółka Gazownictwo informed in January that it would not perform the connections due to the lack of financial resources for these investments. These refusals concern both natural persons and public institutions such as municipalities, e.g. when it comes to the connection of a kindergarten or a nursery, although the arrangement had previously shown that such a connection would be possible. In addition, the implementation of the Government's Clean Air Programme shows that 44% The beneficiaries of this scheme connected gas boilers to heating their own homes. It's all making me... The situation of a company that refuses to connect to gas for the next two years makes it impossible, firstly, to carry out its own investments, secondly, public investment, thirdly, also (the bell) of the government's Clean Air Programme. I therefore ask the Minister to answer - if not today, in writing - what is happening in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing a draft law amending the Act of 10 April 1997 - Energy law to the extent that it is to lay down new rules for connection to the network where another network is to be connected. As a rule, of course, this bill deserves support. It may raise doubts as to why such an important draft law on energy issues, which is extremely important from the point of view of state security, is presented as a parliamentary project rather than a government project. This is certainly not a good example of the government, and certainly of the Ministry responsible for energy issues. However, I would like to ask like my previous speakers, because this is the subject It's very closely linked. On the one hand, we encourage new farms to connect to the gas network, to this clean, secure energy, and on the other hand we note numerous refusals to connect to the network for new customers. This is due to poor, insufficient (Bingle) pipe capacity. Therefore, the question to the Minister is what we are planning to change in this regard, because this is a question of the next 2-3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u255	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are launching an important, serious bill which is necessary for the operation, functioning of the gas system in Poland, Minister, but we also have such ground-based matters concerning directly every Polish citizen who would like to have gas supply. We launched the Clean Air Programme, not so long ago, in January, 66 billion PLN is the amount that PGNiG can count on, in support, compensation, loans, etc., and here the Polish Gas Company announces to Poles that it suspends their connection to gas networks. I would like to ask the Minister what you are doing on this matter. Because, on the one hand, we give extra money from the state budget, there is a Clean Air Programme (the Bell), which is supposed to eliminate low emissions and, on the other hand, the government's lack of response to what is happening. This can't be right. Poles today ask what the government has done and when they will be able to connect to the network. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In Wałbrzych there were three porcelain factories, which employed over 2 thousand. Women, mostly women. There is one factory left, China Krzysztof, which employs 120 people. Porcelain, as we know, burns in furnaces, mostly gas. And suddenly the Management Board finds out that it cannot conclude a contract to obtain gas with Tauron or with the Polish Gas Company. Tauron first presented huge security amounts, and then refused all delivery and conclusion of the contract at all, while the Polish Gazownictwo Company only wrote that it would not enter into the contract. Two things are annoying. First of all, I'm not talking about the fact that this plant could just fall, and this is a 200-year-old tradition in that region. Secondly, there is no answer why - no, because no. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are those with whom you have worked over the years treated? How do you treat it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u258	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I also ask: Is the change contained in the article. 1 in Amendment 1, which raises a four-fold connection fee to the transmission network, will have any impact on the connection fees to the distribution network? Companies such as PSG, which are in financial difficulties today, announce that they are unable to connect, make new connections for the next 2 years, which is a huge problem, especially for agglomerations such as Warsaw, which has to mention more than 7 thousand more. Cinderella by the end of this year. This is a serious problem. So will this change affect the price of gas connections in any way? And second question: Do you consider updating and changing Poland's energy policy by 2040 - less gas, more RES due to problems with gas, with its price, its availability, our dependence on gas, which is progressing within Poland's energy policy until 2040? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u261	Dear Marshal! Minister! I have a question about cooperatives, dozens of cooperatives in Poland, which are heat-powered by municipal and private boiler houses, which are not covered by the same protection as those guaranteed by households within the meaning of the Act - Energy Law. Does the Minister know that the Senate was prepared and the Senate voted on the appropriate amendments, and the Sejm rejected them? Will the Minister answer me one important question: When will the statutory action be taken to help the residents of just those dozens of cooperatives, which the Polish Housing Cooperatives Association informs about? Minister! Every day without changing the gas bill exposes the inhabitants to enormous increases in gas and heat prices, so the residents of these cooperatives, and I am in contact with them, call on the government to take immediate action on this issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u262	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Piotr Naimski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A large proportion of the questions asked by your Members do not concern the matter of this law. These are questions about the broadly understood zone or the energy sector. I will first focus on those questions that directly concern the bill. Well, first of all, a matter that really requires a clear explanation. The provisions in this Act, which relate to changes in the financing conditions for gas connections, apply only to transmission infrastructure, as defined in the regulation which regulates it and which states that this applies - I quote - to 45 000 connecting facilities and installations. m [[You can't wear a mask, Minister.]] Thank you very much. ...with a diameter of less than 1300 mm. In other words, this applies to large customers such as a gas power plant or a large industrial plant, but this does not apply to individual customers. As regards arbitrations, which may be related to the change of the model of operation on the Polish section of the Jamal pipeline... Here I would like to point out, on the margin, that you have asked for the justification to state which companies are specifically concerned by this regulation. Legal regulation, statutory regulation is written for all, is not dedicated for one company. That's the custom, that's the way we do it. The legitimacy must be universal. Thus, this universality causes that the names of these companies do not fall, but it is known that in Poland, which in turn results from European law, the only operator of the gas transmission network is Gaz-System, which is 100% company of the State Treasury, and the owner of the Polish cut-off Jamału is a company which is partly owned by PGNiG and partly owned by Gazprom. Excuse me. Here's a little explanation for who owns the pipeline. EuRoPol owns the pipeline, but EuRoPol doesn't own any concessions. and will not apply for any licenses, only the operator's licenses have an operator, i.e. Gaz-System. The gas-System has this license and will extend it. As far as the Polish section of Jamał is concerned, the whole Polish system has it until 2068 and no political changes in our country will affect it, because it is simply the foundation of functioning and it is not subject to political change, because it is the responsibility of the independent Energy Regulatory Office. With regard to the acceptance by the owner of EuRoPol GAZ or the owners of EuRoPol GAZ of those resulting from the European operator arrangements law, we are dealing with the fact that both owners, co-owners of EuRoPol GAZ are taking these solutions into practice. The Russian party, or Gazprom, tried to challenge the current trust agreement, but it was ineffective because this complaint was dismissed by the Polish court. It seems that if Gazprom beams through Jamal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, can I have a moment more?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u264	You're welcome, but just for a minute, okay? We have to watch the time. Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: If Gazprom sends gas from the East, Russia, to Germany via Jamal in Poland, it can be said that both owners, co-owners will benefit from it. This is, of course, a question of Gazprom's decision, which is the seller of this gas to the West, and is also a co-owner of this gas pipeline. To be decided by the board of Gazprom. As regards issues related to PSG - it goes beyond this law, besides the submission - I would like to say that the Polish Gazownictwo Company, which is a subsidiary of PGNiG SA, as far as I know, a few days ago after the financial arrangements within the group, unlocked the links that are intended for final customers. I'm out of time. I'm so sorry. There are a few more questions. There's been a request to answer them in writing. We'll answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is extremely important to organise the functioning of the Jamaican pipeline. It is about its use within the national gas system after the termination of the contract with Gazprom for the supply of gas to Poland from next year. I would therefore very much like to thank all the Members working on the committee and the representatives of the Ministry for their substantive discussion as rapporteur. The members of the committee expressed their support for the draft submitted by the committee. 24 Members voted in favour, two Members abstained, no one voted against. This shows that Poland's interests in this area have a cross-party significance in our parliament. I am convinced that this will also be seen when voting on the whole of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u266	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law on the protection of national heritage associated with the designation of public spaces (prints No. 1937 and 1967). I would very much like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The work on this law began on 19 January this year from your referral of the project marshal to the relevant committees: the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Local Government. On 27 January, the joint committees decided to refer the draft to the subcommittee after the first reading to discuss the various points of the proposed law. On 7 February this year. The subcommittee examined the whole of the bill during its long work. Following a long and concrete discussion and the submission of proposals, the subcommittee adopted the report and sent the draft to the committee for further examination and adoption. On 22 February this year, the joint committees worked on the whole project and the report of the subcommittee. As a result of the discussion, the draft was adopted. In the vote 29 Members voted in favour, 21 were against, one Member abstained. For this reason, both committees invite the High Sejm to adopt the proposed bill by the High Sejm. Commissions at the same time, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit minority applications at the request of the applicants. Three Members, Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Mr Gill-Friday and Mr Matysiak, ask that the bill be rejected in its entirety. The second application was submitted by Mrs Matysiak. It's about deleting the article. 9. I'm gonna give you some information about what it looked like to be proceding the bill. The first basic element was to apply for legal provisions which would prevent changes from being made when it comes to names of people who deserved Poland, people who have been present in public space for a long time. It's a simple rule. This is not a good time - it has been raised many times during the work of the committee - to address such a sensitive subject as issues of approach to Polish heroes. It was a fundamental issue when it came to this bill. Second thing. It is about the issue which arose during the work and was co-opted, i.e. the amendment of the Act on the activities of the public benefit organisation. There's an admission according to the applicants... The aim is for the Prime Minister to have the opportunity to commission public tasks to non-governmental organisations, not through a tender, but through a decision which he will take. Of course, according to the applicants, it is a very complicated situation. Now, for example. We have a situation like this. Certain actions may be taken. There is also another component that has been introduced into the bill. It's about some changes that concern the Radio and Television Act. These changes clarify the possibility of ordering other external entities to promote and prepare programmes, among others. TV. In this respect, work has been carried out for a long time. As I said, the discussion was very profound and substantive, and for this reason as rapporteur, despite the very harsh words that were often spoken at the committee meeting, I thank you for this rhetoric, because at the end of the day it turned out that this law had been accepted and that the High Sejm could proceed on it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u268	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law on the protection of national heritage related to the naming of public spaces. This project responds to ideas emerging in local governments to remove from the public space the names of patrons who contributed to Poland's regaining independence. It is with great concern to accept recent initiatives aimed at changing the names of places, streets and squares or other public objects commemorating people especially deserved in Polish history. The questioning of the foundations of the memory of the nation and the Polish statehood, which is caused by the tightening of the political dispute, leads to weakening and disparateness of the national community. Such actions in the longer term could jeopardise social peace and national and national integrity. For these reasons it is appropriate to protect the memory of people who helped to build and strengthen Polish statehood and to regain independence by Poland. Currently, in the Polish system of law there are no regulations preventing the adoption of a resolution which would rumble from the public space historical figures deserved to regain independence by Poland. The memory of the deserving is therefore not protected in any way, which unfortunately makes it possible to use this issue in current policies at both national and local level. Art. 2 draft law introduces legal definitions of public space, patronage and patronage. The proposed scope of the concept of a public space object is consistent with the provisions of the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and utilities and by monuments. The concept of patronage includes the name of an object of public space referring to the name, nickname or alias of historical rulers of the Polish state, Polish princes from the period of division, the fathers of independence mentioned in the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland and persons declared holy or blessed by the Catholic Church or other Christian Church. Another person deserved to build and strengthen the Polish state, the identity of the Polish nation or the development of society due to their participation in the fight for independence or the protection of the borders of the Polish state may also be protected by a protected patronage. The wide scope of the proposed protection stems from a number of historical figures, which contributed to strengthening the national identity and sovereignty of the Polish state. In addition, the same article defines the patronage. It includes organisations and institutions that participated in the fight for independence, built and strengthened the sovereignty of the Polish state or through artistic, scientific or social activities built and strengthened national identity. Names referring to events, objects, dates and places connected with the activities of these patrons are also to be considered as a patronage. Changing the names of objects that had patrons or patrons from among the above mentioned objects will be permitted only for a more worthy commemoration of their memory by giving their name or name to another object in public space. It will also be possible to change the name if new, previously unknown facts have been revealed which call into question the merits of the person or entity for which the object has been named in public space. On the other hand, the annulment of the resolutions under the general rules provided for in the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government will be ruled by the voivode. Then it will also be possible to appeal the decision of the voivodship. In addition, in order not to use the period preceding the entry into force of the Act to rubble from the public space of fathers of Polish independence, the project introduces a provision according to which the resolutions of local government units concerning changes of patronage or patronage taken after 1 January 2022 will be invalid. Art. 5 of this draft law provides that if, between 12 September 1989 and 31 December 2021, a resolution has been adopted on the granting of a name to an object in the public space referred to in the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or another totalitarian regime, the authority of a local government unit shall be required to restore the previous name within 3 months from the date of entry into force of the law. This solution aims to reverse the effects of decisions already taken during the period of systemic transformation aimed at promoting the communist system. For these reasons, the Law and Justice Club supports the above draft law, together with the notified (Ring) at the first reading of the amendments and is in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u270	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Like yesterday at the committee meeting, I will begin by congratulating the Members of the applicant because I have ruined even more of what was already at the starting point, to put it directly, a legislative bubble, but this is an achievement. And you did it, ladies and gentlemen, that's impressive, really. However, I would like to address, first of all, those of your parliamentarians who are still hesitant and not afraid, for example. Party discipline or president: do not vote for this project. Don't vote for this project because it's just a bad bill. A law which allegedly protects national heritage in the field of naming objects in public space mocks Polish heritage in the field of legislation, legislation and democracy. A bill that insults this House's achievements. Many reservations about the constitutionality of this project were held by the Legislative Office of the Sejm in the course of the work of the subcommittee. Most of them were not taken into account, as was the case with the work on the Polish Ład. The scale may be different, but the effect will be similar: the legislative monster. It is enough to say that in the law, which after changes counts all 13 articles, three articles are completely unrelated to the scope of its regulation. Two of them, by amending the Act on the Council of Ministers and the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, change the powers of the Prime Minister, extending them to the extent of e.g. outsourcing of public service tasks to public benefit entities in a non-competition mode. The third article changes the way audiovisual production is financed. A horse with a row of people who can figure it out. Even the rapporteur could not explain the point and the exact scope of this last contribution at the Commission meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let's be serious. I repeat, the bill is not a peas with cabbage, bigos or some single pot dish that you can throw everything into. I would add that one of the Members of the Law and Justice has admitted, and this is an exact quote, that some may even find it disgusting. So if it's not for your sense of decency or loyalty to the principles of decent legislation, I'll appeal to your taste, like Herbert, because it's just a matter of taste: Don't vote for this project. In addition to the add-ons, we still have retroactivity in the project, contrary to the article. 2 constitutions, which also signalled the Legislative Office of the Sejm, of course in vain. We also have a lack of vacathio legis for reasons that the rapporteur was also unable to explain and provisions contrary to the rule of law. Let me repeat, this is just a legislatively bad bill. In this light, even another attack on self-government autonomy served here in terms of naming does not make such an impression. There is still a question of the validity of the whole project itself. At the first meeting of the subcommittee, I asked the rapporteur how many patrons have been changed in terms of this bill in the last 5 and 10 years. In the justification of the project we read, quote: It is with great concern that the initiatives that have appeared recently in the public debate aimed at changing the names of streets, squares or other objects in the public space commemorating people particularly well deserved in Polish history should be accepted. Allowing the foundations of the memory of the nation to be undermined is a risk of weakening and disparaging the community and thus contrary to the interests of society. However, in my opinion initiatives aimed at changing the names of streets, squares or other objects in public space in recent years have been coming out and being implemented, also legally, especially if not exclusively by the governing party. In Łódź, where a moratorium applies to change the street names, the Łódź voivode changed several dozens of them. Therefore, I would ask citizens to provide evidence that this is not the case and that this regulation is really necessary, that you do not change the whole system of naming objects in public space to immediate political needs. I have another basic question: Why do law and justice officials think they know better than the citizens on which streets they want to live and what monuments to look at? Why do you want to censor the Sovereign's voice and why you are afraid to allow the possibility to resolve them on the way? Local referendum? That was the amendment I tabled at the subcommittee meeting and was rejected by your votes. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, for the sake of respect for this House (The Bell) and the faithfulness of the Constitution, I strongly appeal to all ladies and gentlemen to reject this very bad project. Of course, I'm filing a motion for rejection with your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u272	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Let's start with what the legislative process looks like in the Law and Justice issue, and we will look at it on the example of the Law on the Protection of the National Heritage of Public Space Act No. 1937 - the Law on the Protection of National Heritage. Let us start by saying that it is difficult to call the legislative process what the Law and Justice are doing. After all, such a process involves a series of planned and resulting activities. On the other hand, when law is adopted by the Law and Justice, nothing is very often planned and there is nothing to be seen, because projects arise as a result of the impulses of the moment, without inter-ministerial consultation and public consultation, without checking the relationship of the new provisions with existing rules, often without considering the consequences and preparation of administration for the implementation of the new laws. However, it is on the agenda to bring the laws to the Sejm at the last moment or to make amendments that change the entire law, also at the last moment. According to the formula: it will first be approved, and then it will be thought, what a vivid example was the introduction of the Polish Łódź, which not only surprised Polish society, but apparently also the authors of the reform and their subordinate offices. And that's what we have in this bill, which we're dealing with today, because we've got two uploads in it. One concerns allowing the Prime Minister to delegate tasks to non-governmental organisations outside the competition procedure - that is to say, a change in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The second concerns television programmes in Polish and other languages for recipients outside the country - a change in the Radio and Television Act submitted yesterday at the Commission meeting. Turning to the subject of the law, I will say that it is really sad that the Government of Law and Justice does not trust local governments and is taking ever-increasing new steps to deprive them of their decision-making in the following areas. It would seem that the issue of giving names to streets or other objects in public space is mainly a matter for the local authorities and its inhabitants, but, as you can see, Members and Members of Law and Justice want absolute control, so they want to adopt a law that imposes many restrictions on this subject. We are also well aware of the background of the procession over this law, because it is really the answer to the social will to change the name of Dmowski roundabout in Warsaw to the roundabout of Women's Rights under the influence of massive opposition to the brutal tightening of abortion laws by Law and Justice. A petition was adopted by the City Council on this matter, and that is what caused the fury of the extreme right. But is there something wrong - let's ask about it - in the fact that the people themselves and the democratically elected majority in the local government want to give some place a name that responds to their needs? For the Law and Justice - apparently so, so now he wants to prevent such actions not only from the authorities of Warsaw, but also from all local governments in Poland. Of course, in this project we find some exceptions that allow us to make a change, if there is a more worthy form of commemoration for a particular patron, or when the circumstances that question the legitimacy of giving a given name are revealed. Then it is mentioned that if a given character promoted totalitarianism, Nazism or communism, it is a condition to remove it from the name. But the question as to whether the removal of a priest's monument to whom pedophilia has been proven in the past would be, according to the authors of this law, an appropriate premise, we did not receive an answer at the committee meeting. In the bill a lot of power is given to voivodships, who in certain cases will have the right to give new names to streets and squares. The authors of the project say that their goal is to exclude the current political struggle on this issue. However, it is difficult to believe the authors of the law on a word, when, for example. Several years ago, as part of his actions, the then Łódź voivode from giving the Law and Justice changed the name en. Winnings in Łódź on en. Lech Kaczyński. It's kind of hard to talk about not being a political choice. Basic question: Has this law been consulted with local governments? No, she wasn't. Did the local authorities agree with the proposed provisions in this law? Of course, they didn't. No public consultation was carried out in the case of this law. In view of all the reasons I just mentioned, the coalition club of the Left will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u274	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u275	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present the position of the club concerning the parliamentary draft law on the protection of national heritage associated with the naming of public space objects from print No. 1937. The bill is undoubtedly the reaction of the PiS Group to the resolution of the Warsaw Council on the adoption of a petition to change the name of the Dmowski Roundabout to the Women's Rights Roundabout. So it's a silly decision on one side and you want to replace it with a silly and harmful act. After all, we still have many places in the capital and in the country that may have women's rights in their name. Let us not introduce a law that disrupts the legal order and changes the map of naming the streets of the capital, which in this way honors the fathers of our independence, because remember that the roundabout of Dmowski is inscribed in a archipelago of Warsaw, which create monuments of Vincent Witos, Korfantego, pl. Haller, Dmowski Roundabout and en. Piłsudski, of course. Let us not introduce a law that is even more disruptive to the legal order, which leads to another political dispute and social division. On just two pages of this law, you violate the provisions of the Municipal Government Act and thus once again deprive the local authorities of their powers. Once again, the powers of the municipalities' councils are taken away, and let us remember that these councils have been elected in democratic elections and have the right to give their village a name and a name that they think belongs to a given street or public utility object. At yesterday's meeting of the committee, although earlier work in the specially appointed subcommittee was put in place, a provision was inserted which led to the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television, also violates the provisions of the Act on Public Finance and amends the Act on Volunteering. Such cases should not take place, ladies and gentlemen. This law is contrary to existing legislation. It introduces chaos and some double or even triple standards. In your statement of reasons, you state that it will not have an impact on the increase in costs. This is also another nonsense, because as we know, every change of name entails changing addresses, exchanging documents, changing tables. These are real costs for both administration and for residents or companies, of course if a change in nomenclature occurs. According to the provisions of this law, the final decision on this issue will be able to take the voivode and the law will act backwards. This is an evil, harmful and anti-government bill. It is also misjudged by the Office of Sejm Analysis and absolutely unconstitutional. Therefore, the coalition club of Poland and the Polish People's Party will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u276	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is a universal law in this House. The standards we are shaping here should be objective and general in nature. I know these are obvious words, but it's worth remembering. The project under investigation does not meet these conditions to any extent. It is written on the knee, it is an attempt on the independence of local communities, in addition it has a genesis not in care of the common good, but in the individual situation, in an attempt to forcefully block the Warsaw authorities from changing the name of the roundabout. No matter what we think about it, I don't know, anyway, everyone has the right to have their own opinion. But this is a forcefully blocking the Warsaw authorities from changing the name of the roundabout, which will soon cease to exist after the reconstruction, so that's why we are doing this law at all, please. That was probably the disposition from Nowogrodzka and that was the disposition of your spin doctors so that you would have a lans at the expense of what the representatives of the capital decided. And that's very bad. But it's still a bad law, because, Mr Lisiecki, how many times would you not change the word national, it really doesn't change anything. This is a very bad bill. Such a law, which is wrong, can be corrupted even more, as you have shown in the course of the committee's work, because all the contributions you have brought... their authors have completely failed to explain to us what the things they bring into this law are all about. So it's as if the authors of the changes in the bill didn't know exactly what they were changing the amendments they were bringing, so maybe I'll explain and I want you to explain to me too. Tell me what it has to do with the subject matter of the law, e.g. Article 2 9, which gives the Prime Minister the opportunity to commission public tasks to ecclesiastical organizations at any time, because that is precisely what the article says. 3 point 3 of the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. That's what you do in this bill. Didn't you give Rydzyk enough public money? Didn't enough money flow through the Church Fund? What's the point of the next bill drop, the one last night, this time about radio and television? Tricky transfer of public money by third parties and associates. 2 billion PLN on TVP isn't enough for you? As Poland 2050, we have filed and maintained a motion to reject this evil law in its entirety, and now we are applying for the rejection of its most harmful articles. Please change your mind. This bill is not suitable for adoption, and even the Legislative Office was talking about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u278	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There would be no argument over this bill, if not for what the left-wing Civic Coalition is trying to do in Warsaw, if not for the fact that in Warsaw one of the most important fathers of Polish independence - Roman Dmowski is trying to erase himself. This is the real cause and concern that such actions of the Donald Tusk party will be applied in the future, will be applied more widely throughout the country. Unfortunately, today councillors from both the Left and the Civic Coalition voted in Warsaw to erase the fundamental part of Polish history. We probably wouldn't need this debate, there wouldn't have been much to say here, fine legislative action, if not for this situation, if the Civic Platform hadn't taken a course for zapaterism, for a total leftist worldview and historical revolution. That's the truth today. That's the truth about a party that's called chadeck. And here I address the Vice-Marshal sitting in the front row as the great-grandddaughter of Prime Minister Władysław Grabski, a co-worker of Roman Dmowski, maybe you wouldn't need all this confusion if you were to appeal to the councillors from Warsaw, from whom you are chosen, so that they wouldn't do what they did so that they wouldn't erase Roman Dmowski's roundabout from the map of the Polish capital. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: I am in correction mode.]] Because it's disgraceful because you have to realize that - whether you're with roots in the AWS or in the Freedom Union or anywhere else - that what you're doing today is a totally left-wing historical, political, ideological agenda and that you have nothing to do with the folk party, the Chadeca, for a long time now. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Roman Dmowski, as well as other fathers of independence, deserves to be duly honored in the capital to find their place in the Polish Parliament also as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Second Republic, and therefore in response to these scandalous attempts to erase his name from public space still at this meeting we will make a request that one of the parliament halls should be named Roman Dmowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, and then the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u281	High Izbo! The Parliamentary Circle of PPS calls for the rejection of the draft Act on the Protection of National Heritage related to the designation of public spaces and monuments, as it is contrary to the constitution, reason, common sense, and also takes away their powers from local governments. The Commission with the votes of the PiS supplemented the draft law on absurd points that amend the Radio and Television Act, the Council of Ministers Act and the Volunteer Act in a way that will enable any spending of money from the budget without any control. My fourth term is in the Seym, but I haven't seen anything so stupid. The law was written under a specific unit case so that the Warsaw government would not be able to change the name of the roundabout Dmowski to the roundabout of Women's Rights. Of course, other patrons are also to be protected. If there's a street, a square, the school has a patronage, for example. President Lech Kaczyński or a soldier rightly cursed for murders and robberies or some saint, so that such a street could not be changed. So we can't take down the stairs on pl. Piłsudski or any of the more than 1000 statues of JP II, which are deceiving Poland, because one is uglier, and we have a law on the protection of religious feelings, but we do not have about protecting aesthetic feelings and we need to watch these macaroons. [[Applause]] Of course, it's just PiS' delusions that the bill will protect different patrons forever. The first thing a democratic opposition should do after winning the elections will be to repeal hundreds of nonsense PiS laws, including this one. PiS doesn't understand that you can't decree the duty of worshiping people who aren't worth it. A separate case is so-called. saintly patrons who in a secular state should not have public objects named after them, especially since holiness is often questionable. After all, Pope Paul VI in 1969 approved a new liturgical calendar, in which there is neither St. Christopher, not St. Valentine's Day. Drivers and lovers probably don't know it, and that's why there's so much love and road accidents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm filing a motion for rejection with your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u282	I understand that to the questions... Oh, I'm sorry, your marshal's still in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u283	I would very much like to ask Mr Winnicki to leave my family, my grandfather alone. He was a very tolerant person and made sure that everyone could fit in and work together. I would like him not to speak falsely, because the Warsaw Council did not adopt the decision to remove the name Roman Dmowski, but accepted the citizens' petition. Citizens' petitions and listening to what the people of Warsaw say should be adopted. That's the role of councillors. That's why I would ask you not to mislead people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u284	Members have asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I'm closing the list of questions. As the first Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, through the lion's part of our committee meeting, we could not come to the conclusion of the title of this document, this law. Well, today I have this title and I propose that the applicant accept this title. It will be a law on the arrogance of the PiS, because according to this law the voivode knows better than the local government knows, and the curator, according to another law, knows much better than parents who want good education and good education for their children. This is a law about which the Legislative Office says it is unconstitutional - and cases of this unconstitutionality were shown very much yesterday. But the arrogance of the PiS says nothing, we'll do it our way. That's why I'm asking. You tabled an amendment yesterday to the National Radio and Television Council. My question: How is the National Radio and Television Council to determine the name of the monument or street? That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secondly, what does the content of this amendment really concern? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u286	Member of the Commission, Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually thought that this bill was just a bad bill that restricts the freedom of local governments, civil liberties, but in fact this law has a second bottom. Because these two amendments, which were unexpectedly yesterday - but really unexpectedly - introduced, show that this law is to be used to transfer money without control, because the creation of a provision concerning the Radio and Television Act only indicates that you want to carry out budget money out of control. The same applies to the transfer of funds to organisations without control. I mean, it's like yours or your magazines. Such a scandal, such a procession and such amendments were not yet made in this Seym in my day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u288	Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, God's forefather didn't mention anything to anybody, Your Marshal, but in my day, there wasn't one either, which means there wasn't and for half a ninth term there wasn't. [[Applause]] And then all of a sudden, there's a bill that should be thrown into the trash anyway, because it takes local governments out of their constitutional role, and it doesn't know why it's built on some delusions, and it turns out that we're adding some law about the Council of Ministers, about volunteering, but it's still half a poverty, because maybe these monuments have something to do with them, they'll be on these monuments. But a bill that gives a monopoly to public television for some production that I don't know if anybody else is producing is really out of line. So I ask the applicant again because yesterday he could not explain to me: What is this amendment (the bell) introducing the Radio and Television Act there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u290	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u291	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This project is so bad, it threatens even St. Barbara. There's a street in Warsaw. St. Barbara. This is a very important street, because it reaches the street itself. Nowogrodzka. These streets were marked at the end of the 19th century. It was named after St. Barbara. The problem is that the Pope deleted St. Barbara from the so-called The Martyrologium Romanum, that is, from the register of the saints of the Catholic Church. A. 3 (1) (a) 2 of this law says that if there is an unknown circumstance at the time of the establishment of the patron, then the street name can be changed. As a Member from Silesia, I am from a region where many public institutions and many streets bear the name of St. Barbara. A similar fate may await the Jesuit of St. Edmund Campion, who was convicted and sentenced to death for espionage to a foreign state. This is also part of this terrible bill. It's good for basketball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u292	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The parliamentary bill on the protection of national heritage associated with the name of public spaces could be called: block local government, free thought. But I wanted to ask the applicants, the MPs... Because there is something like this: Whenever the law refers to a public space object, it means a municipal or district organizational unit, a local self-government organizational unit, an auxiliary unit of the commune, a building, an object, a public utility device, including a road, a street, a bridge and a square. I would like to ask you where the idea for such a new one was taken, even in urban space, a name: a public space object. Who was such, you can say, a prominent urbanist and named, in the form of a definition, a public space object? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u294	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition in this room must be completely calm. This bill will pass anyway, because it is written by the Central Committee of the Polish United Party of Law and Justice, and more specifically by the Faculty of Propaganda and Teaching in the spirit of the only right idea. But Poles have the right to ask why religious discrimination is being introduced, why patrons can only be blessed, saints. I would also like to ask you about the criteria for selecting people for the respectable committees that will be tasked with carrying out an assessment which is more worthy of historical character and which is less. Is the name of a square named e.g. The Mahatmy of Gandhi will be regarded as derogatory identities of the state and the Polish nation? If someone else from the Central Committee of Law and Justice had answered me in writing, I would have been pleased, and my constituents would have been more so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u296	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law has one purpose: to strike the sovereignty of votes and decisions taken by local governments on commemorating people in public space. There's no doubt about that. This change will also affect the inhabitants of cities and villages, because they choose their representatives and elected democratically councillors decide on the proposed change of name in a given village. The bill is written on the knee. There is clearly no proper definition and unconstitutionality. Of course, she was tabled as a parliamentary project, without a broad debate. And these bill dropouts are really embarrassing. How can that be a law? This bill is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u298	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to address someone from the ministry, but no one's here. That is the respect for this House, but also respect for citizens, for the state. 'Cause it's not like one of the residents is gonna pick out these street names. There's gonna be people sitting here who aren't here today... There used to be a premier from the tablet. Minister Gliński, perhaps also through a tablet, will indicate to us the names of the streets, e.g. in Radom, in Szydlowiec, in Kozienice. Additional competences will be given to voivodships, e.g. Former Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Several times his orders were repealed by the provincial administrative court, and sometimes even by the general court. Also the current voivode Konstanty Radziwiłł lost in the Voivodship Administrative Court. It's about the suspension of the hospital director in Radom. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I ask the politicians of Law and Justice: Are you crazy? Even the streets are bothering you already? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u300	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's bothering you local governments? Why are you so obsessed with them? This is another law - from many that you have introduced over the last six years - which limits the competences of local governments. After all, there's no problem with you running for election and winning this election. After all, it is the villagers who decide who will be the governor, the mayor or the president of a given municipality, a given city. And it is these people, along with the council of the municipality, that the city council should decide what the streets will be called. But no. You want to control everything centrally. You want to re-paint history. You want your patrons, because other patrons, appointed by the opposition councilmen, will not be accepted. This bill is outrageous. It must be rejected as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u302	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is nothing but political happening and should be rejected in its entirety. This bill will be an obstacle, among others. in making difficult settlements with the history of our cities and municipalities. The best example is the discussion that is taking place in Wrocław regarding the change of the name of St. Jan Kapistran. John Kapistran as a saint of the Catholic Church would be protected by this law, while being a negative hero of one of the darkest events in the history of Wrocław. In 1453. Kapistran was a general inquisitor in Wroclaw, where his anti-Semitic sermons led to the exile of the Jewish people from the city and to the burning of 41 Jews in Wroclaw. If this bill is adopted, any attempt to give symbolic justice to the inhabitants and residents of Wrocław who have fallen victim to the pogrom will result in the repeal of the municipal council resolution by the voivode. Do you really (the bell) wish to sanction such historical injustice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u304	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u305	The National Heritage Act amends the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 4th Radio and TV Act in such a way that the cost of creating programmes and programmes for recipients abroad is to be covered by the state budget, but not within the limits set by the budget law, as before - i.e. on the basis of: scooter soul, hell is not there. What's going on here? Or maybe outside the budget bill, outside the Sejm's control, at the expense of e.g. health care, give PiS TV a few billion zlotys again? In turn, the article. 9 changes, it doesn't know why, Art. 11b Act on Public Use and Volunteering, enabling the Prime Minister to commission non-governmental organisations to carry out public tasks without an open competition. What kind of scam is behind this? Whose buddies are these assignments to be commissioned? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u306	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u307	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to guarantee the names of streets, squares, Catholic monuments to saints and nationalists, the PiS must do so by means of a law, because it knows well that Poles and Poles do not want patrons of the streets who protected paedophiles or were responsible for ethnic cleansing. It's a shame to live on these streets, and no law can change that. However, if you insist on it, let's keep all these Patopathrons, but on the same principle as Finland left the monuments of the Russian occupation. Let them be a sad symbol that there was a time in Poland when the rulers worshiped pedophiles in caskets and bandits who did ethnic cleansing. And for these monuments to be a warning that this time may come back if we do not defend our democracy and freedom enough. ? Speaking of which, Marshal Terlecki, do you still think Putin kept his face? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe you could answer that. The Poles and Poles are waiting for this answer, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u308	Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. I've had your presence again. [[Your presence doesn't change anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! General Jerzy Ziętek created the Provincial Culture and Leisure Park in Chorzów. Those are the facts. However, his name in mysterious circumstances disappeared from the official name of the park. Clearly, the facts are of little importance to the current authorities. The legendary voivode of Katowice, whom we owe to outside Silesian Park, among others. The construction of the Spodek Hall, in the eyes of the present authorities, is clearly not worthy of commemoration. Silesians don't think so. But truth and memory are irrelevant to the ruling right hand. It's all about the crazy ideological shampoo you're trying to shut down our story in. And that's what this bill is about. Instead of a fair discussion about our common history and memory - idiotic patterns, saints - yes, communists - no. It's crap to name some square named after the archbishop. Romero and see if your system's gonna crash. That bill of yours is so silly. Luckily, she's been in force for a long time, and I don't think anyone's gonna remember her anytime soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u310	Mr Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u311	High Izbo! This law was made because Law and Justice apparently get hysterical about the sound of women's rights. This law was created because Law and Justice are so afraid of the fact that the inhabitants and inhabitants of Warsaw do not care about Roman Dmowski, for this they care about commemorating the rights of women, that you had to make a special mention for it. Is that what you're really afraid of? Is that really the most important problem today? Are you really not able to recognize that residents and residents of Warsaw, but also other cities and towns, have the right to decide which streets they want to live on and who they want to honor with the names of these streets, squares and roundabouts? It's just pathetic.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u312	Member Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask for one question, an amendment which was tabled during the work of the subcommittee, namely the law on public benefit activities and voluntary activities. What does this have to do with a law that, after all, intends to regulate the names of objects in public space? I'm sure you could say that it probably doesn't have anything to do with it, but you wanted to give additional powers to the Prime Minister so that he could distribute public money without competition mode, without any supervision, and probably to your organizations as well. But I hope that you will answer this question: Why such a throwaway in this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u314	Member Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been said many times that this project is suitable only for basketball. That's it. That's it. That's it. However, as a Gdansk man, I would like to ask if there could be a street of the name of the philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer in Gdansk - surely the Pole was not - or the physicist Daniel Fahrenheit - also the Pole was not, he was a Gdanskman, like Schopenhauer - or whether he can sit on his bench in Gdansk with the drummer Oskar Günter Grass. But going further, from Gdansk to the south, I would like to ask if in Leżajsk Cadik Elimelech, a world sanctity for Hasidim, can have a square of his name. One more thing: at the committee's meeting, we were served three drop-offs with absolutely no connection to the subject of the law, an add-on concerning the amendment of the law on radiophony justified by the Polish state rhyme. Therefore, I repeat the question to the rapporteur, Mr Sipiera, because the committee did not explain what this Polish right of state was supposed to be about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u316	Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! This law clearly shows how the PiS seeks to limit the role of local authorities. It is pushing for a project aimed at limiting the possibility for municipalities and powiats to give names freely to streets, squares or monuments. Moreover, yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media also showed once again how the legal opinion of the Legislative Office is of little importance to Members of the right side of the political scene. And this is no longer a joke. This law is a clear legal framework, which should go to the trash rather than to the plenary session. I therefore fully support the proposal to reject it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u318	Mr Karolin Pavliczak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In relation to the bill submitted, I will make a few comments relating mainly to the vote of local governments, which are completely omitted in the case of this legislative process, as in other cases. This is a very bad practice of lawmaking if you do not engage in a dialogue with local governments and residents on a law that directly affects them. The current rule also violates the principle of non-retroactivity and raises huge doubts about the principle of decent legislation. Why do local governments deprive themselves of their rights by creating a flawed, constitutionally contrary law? What's all this about? Why are you making legal nightmares that will be so easy to challenge? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u320	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today the PiS was beaten because it is in such a state of rule, or fullness: it has full power, full responsibility, but it makes a lot of arrogant mistakes. I lived in a system where power seemed to be two things: that it would rule until the end of the world and that she was the only one right. As it turns out, sooner or later people wake up and say you were wrong for decades. You are now in the phase of thinking that only you are right, without dialogue, without respect for other actors who co-chair the country, of course I am talking about local governments, without counting on the fact that there are always curves in history and once it is better, once worse. It gets better once, it gets worse. You've led me to believe that you're going to adopt a bill that's definitely going to be abolished. That's an interesting way of thinking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u322	Member of Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It seemed at first that we were protecting something. We're not just protecting anything, we're destroying everything. It is scandalous to interfere in self-decision of local governments and impose their ideas on them from Nowogrodzka. Cities have their stories, they have the right to call their streets, squares named after people who are deserved for the community. Let's trust the Poles, they're patriots, and let's not force them into patriotism from the PiS, because it's another patriotism. The ruling party has recently done a lot of bad things to destroy national heritage in public space. We remember the last time the Seym was agreed to be available in the construction of protected public spaces in cities. It seemed like nothing could happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm afraid so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u324	Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Local governments were 25 years old to decommunise public space, and in many places they didn't. It was only in the previous term that the law changed this reality. The Voivodeships often did it for local governments who didn't want to do it. The Warsaw authorities returned names really not positively recorded on the history pages of the so-called. Communist heroes. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of statements here that this is an attempt on self-government. This is not an attempt on self-government, it is simply a disagreement to start the next ideological wars, such was the formulation on the left side, also on the central side. The legislator has the right to shape the law in Poland and so far we have as a parliamentary majority... If you're scaring me, of course, if you win the election, you'll be doing what you think you're doing. However, until now, when we have this opportunity, we shape it and do not want to lead to a situation where in local governments there will be an ideological war on Polish heroes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u326	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This law gives the voivod more competence. I want to ask you what the voivodship has competence to exercise this power. Did such as the former Łódź voivode, and now the foreign minister, who organized madness for all inhabitants of Łódź, replacing the name: Victory Square, because he did not like the victory over Germany, Lech Kaczyński Square, or deprived the patronage of the hero Litzmannstadt Ghetto, who went to death with her subjects in the hospital, just because before the war she was a young activist of the Communist Party of Poland? Or maybe the kind of competence that made him decide to name the unnamed streets of the land and called me to give an explanation on this matter. I had to instruct him to write to Google headquarters in the United States because they are the only ones responsible for what names are placed on Google maps. Is that the competence of the voivodships? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u328	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To ask questions about what is actually happening here and where this madness comes from, the answer is, unfortunately, simple. What is happening here is typical of such endless periods of authoritarian rule when authoritarian power begins to fear ordinary people. She's afraid of self-governments, and she thinks it's possible to dictate what she thinks over people's heads in a dictatorial way. Hitting self-government is a hit on residents who live on a particular street and expect one, not another name, or at least want to be able to accept the name. Today's nickname is that before the local government makes a decision, the decision is assessed by the residents, by the council of settlements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, this bill will be amended as soon as the power is changed. Hopefully as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u330	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National heritage should unite, not divide. PiS would like to paint Polish history with its colors, but PiS is not eternal and the people of PiS and local governments, and in Poland they will not rule forever. The problem is, however, that we draw this story, we go through it, trying to prove that something is better or worse, without paying attention to the fact that local authorities, whether it's Tuchola, Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw or Znin, know what and what should be called. We're interfering with local politics because we think we're smarter, but power that doesn't appreciate the local community is power that shouldn't affect national power. And from this perspective: political reason and peace, we should talk about it. Therefore, we should not proceed on this bill, and such projects should be thrown in the trash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u332	Member Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS in its indoctrination zone and in the ownership of Poland there are no brakes. When we think you've reached the wall, you make such a curial bill as this one. For 30 years Polish local governments have given names to streets and squares in their cities and changed them according to the will of the inhabitants. And all of a sudden, PiS comes and says, "No more, now we're gonna decide what the street in your town is gonna be called and what kind of patron she's gonna have." It is the inhabitants and the elected councilmen who have the exclusive right to decide who can and who cannot be a patron in their city. Nothing to do with the members of the PiS. Do you really think that Mr PiSu, let us say that Silesia, has the right to decide who can and who cannot be the patron of the street in Lublin? You completely do not understand the meaning of the word self-government and completely do not understand the meaning of the word absurdity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u334	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. [[Something amazing, a wonderful performance.]] [[Thank you very much, sir.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: One big lie, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u335	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wonder why PiS is so afraid of local governments, why PiS is afraid of the local community, why PiS is afraid of the sovereign. I remind the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS that the government is also a public authority. I will also remind the essence of self-government, what is self-government: it is the right and ability of local communities to manage and manage a fundamental part of public affairs on their own responsibility. On their own responsibility. Why do you think the party voivode of your broadcast will know better than the president, the governor, the mayor, than the councillors know, the local community? Now imagine you're about to lose your power. Do you want this law to apply? And the other thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't do that stupid stuff. The fact that you're gonna make another drop today is irresponsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u336	Member Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is completely pointless and regrettable because it is intended to become a tool for resolving individual political disputes, and as you know, the laws are intended not to resolve current political conflicts, but to solve systemic issues, specific issues. We will not support this law either because it takes away the powers of the local government and centralizes public authority, and we believe that there really are a million ways to reconcile the interests of those who want to have Rondo Women's Rights in Warsaw, and those who want to have a roundabout. Dmowski. And the question to the legislators: Do you realize that you are creating double-edged weapons, that the sad epilogue of your bill may be the words that one of the messengers said today, who does not like the aesthetics of the monuments of John Paul II, and who, on this basis (the bell) will want to eliminate them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u338	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard not to get the impression that this project is a bogeyman's sauce, which Minister Dworczyk spoke about, which is intended to water propaganda, which Law and Justice serve people instead of sitting at a table, talking about, finding a solution. We all know this is about one particular place. Unfortunately, it can also be used in a moment to manipulate history, to create heroes for people who do not deserve such a name. Unfortunately, this law also shows a high level of ignorance in terms of historical knowledge, because you can harm some of the people you want to protect. It's worth thinking about. But I have one question for law and justice: why don't you listen to the sovereign? After all, it is the sovereign who creates and shows his heroes, and you want to turn it into a party warrant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that okay? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u340	Thank you. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, the applicant's representative, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some of the comments given from this speaker. It has been pointed out that this law is an ad hoc act. No, it's not an ad hoc action, it's just prevention, countering situations like this in Warsaw, where one of the fathers of independence is about to lose his patronage over the roundabout, and it doesn't matter whose thing it is, whether it's Rondo Women's Rights or the roundabout of someone else's name. The point is that the person who contributed to regaining independence is about to lose his patronage. Some accuse us of defending these fathers of independence from being removed from public space through a legal act. Honestly, it's not a charge to me, it's just, to be honest, praise. Yes, we want to defend the fathers of independence against removing them from public space, as some local governments have defended the names of members of communist parties or communist organizations in the same public space. The draft law also does not affect the autonomy of local governments. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 13 of the Municipal Government Act to the exclusive competence of the municipal council is the adoption of resolutions on the matter of the municipal coat of arms, the names of streets and squares which are public roads or the names of internal roads. On the other hand, the local government is acting on the basis of the law, the law established by the Sejm, and we are establishing the law on this matter right now. After all, the Municipal Government Act contains various types of regulations and restrictions, the guardian of which is the voivode. And so we point out that here the voivode, whose decision can be appealed to the administrative court, is the guardian of this right. The draft, in the opinion of some of the opposition, is contrary to the constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal shall decide on the conflict with the Constitution. Today we have a presumption of inconclusiveness with the constitution. In my opinion, it is not contrary to the constitution, but it is contrary to the interests of some of the opposition, and these are two different things: the conflict with the constitution and the conflict with the interests of some of the opposition. And at the end of the day, that's the point. It was stated here that the Polish state is a secular state. Well, the Polish state according to the constitution is neither a religious state nor a secular state - it is a neutral worldview state. This means that both believers and non-believers can coexist in public space, both non-denominationals and those belonging to organizations that profess faith. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u342	Thank you. Now the draftsman of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Sispier.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many words have been made in relation to the procedure of the law and the reference to this point, which affects the need to introduce such a provision into the legal framework. In this Chamber, many of the Members who were present were not really speaking in order to stir up and cause unnecessary fear in the local governments that the legislator is supposedly entering their competences. Of course, this statutory record is prepared so that, as I said, it does not cause any further unnecessary kernel in Poland, as far as what is already in public space is concerned. It's not the Seym that's gonna change those names, it's not the voivode that's gonna change them, because it's not gonna change anything. The rules are supposed to protect what is already in public space. This is, as the rapporteur has just said, prevention. Let's not do any more games. We've done some things. There was a decounization bill that ended a certain process. And today we need peace in Poland, not further struggle. And I would ask your fellow Members, experienced Members, as they have said, some term of office, not to mislead the citizens. Second case, very important in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully because I participated in the subsequent stages of creating these records with, among others. Mr Lisiecki... There wasn't a moment when people were wondering what to do to make things better, but it was still great, but to say that it was an assassination attempt on democracy, an assassination on the constitution, an assassination on the government, etc., etc. And this is nothing more than what I was talking about, some kind of record that is supposed to block often really provocative movements. And to what the Marshal has said, I will refer personally, because it is from Warsaw, and I, being a Warsaw voivode, have also collected experience over the past years. You know the situation with regard to Warsaw space. What was it like? It is said that a state monument cannot be erected in Warsaw without Warsaw's consent. Why? Because the sovereign says no. Without a referendum, without any reference, but in geremio the current majority says: the sovereign does not want. And it's been rehearsed for years. Now we're dealing with a situation where there's no decision, but the sovereign has made some kind of petition, and now the sovereign wants to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy, sovereigns occur when there are elections, when as a result they give someone legitimacy to rule. After some time, this sovereign decides that either he entrusts someone else to rule or does not do so. Meanwhile, Warsaw, and it does so often, hides itself in the sovereign when it says: we would have done it, but... The President of Warsaw, before the campaign or during the campaign, said that, of course, if he became President of Poland, he would make order here, etc. He's still president, but he can't change the street name, although he changed it in a negative way. He didn't bring back the name that should be, it's al. Lech Kaczyński, saying he can't, because the sovereign won't let him. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a method of governing, very comfortable, but nothing of reality as to what the Law and Justice are doing. We have the power and what our constituents expect us to do. Of course, a group may not like it. We understand that, but, well, that's the reality, and democracy isn't 100%. That's all there is to it. We have her in Parliament for now, and we are proceeding in this regard. [[Just like in Russia.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will also refer to those questions that were in the course of your speeches, why such and not other decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to this part concerning the Prime Minister's powers, it is precisely that the Prime Minister will decide everything in competitions, invitations to tender, etc. There is a clear provision: in important matters of state interest. I understand that you do not believe this Prime Minister and this Government, but this is the Polish Government, right? Therefore, the Prime Minister cannot be stripped of his ability to act, as well as for example. Belsat TV cannot be incapacitated and we can give this opportunity to act in this situation, which is at the moment very tense on the eastern border. This is how we differ, ladies and gentlemen, from you, from the opposition, that we speak and do something, make changes and act, and you are just saying. Now we hear many times that you've been thinking about everything, about the biggest things, but you haven't. Law and Justice does, and that's why we put in place such a bill... [[What were you doing six years ago?]] ...we introduce and we want the High Chamber to adopt such a law to stop very bad, tested by the largest local government in Poland, the practice of ideological struggles, as far as Polish heroes are concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u344	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services (prints Nos 2014 and 2020). I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services, print No 2014. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, addressed the above. draft law on 16 February 2022 to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading. The committees held their first reading on 22 February, which was yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a short change, because it contains, you can say, three records, changes three things in the currently functioning act on bus transport. The first amendment concerns the fact that Article. 21 provided for an extension until 31 December 2023 of the application of the Episcopal Provisions of that Law. The second amendment concerns Article. 30a paragraph. 2 of the Fund Act and consists in maintaining an increased rate of aid from the Development Fund for public service bus services from no more than PLN 1 to an amount of no more than PLN 3 until 31 December 2023. 28 changes have been proposed which allow the transfer of funds from the Fund allocated to the voivodships, whose limit of appropriations for the financial year has proved insufficient. During the work of the Joint Committees, work was smooth, in accordance with which there were no comments from either party. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u346	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Government's draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest amends the Act on the Development Fund for bus services, which entered into force in 2019. The solutions envisaged in the Act introduced a mechanism to finance the performance of the organisation's own tasks in the field of bus transport. These rules allow for the creation of a coherent and organised public transport network. The annual revenue of the fund amounts to PLN 800 million. As part of the selection for 2022, 4901 communication lines were paid to the Fund, at least according to the current contract register, and the amount of aid requested was PLN 543 million. At the same time, however, due to the growing interest in transport in four voivodships, the limits granted to these voivodships for the current year were exceeded. The current Episcopal Regulations provide for a payment of PLN 3 per wagon-kilometre by 31 December 2022. The bill submitted contains three articles and provides for an extension of the amount of PLN 3 per tonne-kilometre until 31 December 2023. The proposed amendments provide the organiser with assurance of the financing of transport for a period of one year longer. It is also envisaged to transfer funds from individual voivodships to voivodships where the limit of funds was not sufficient. The new rules make it more flexible for the fund's manager to dispose of the funds, abolish the mandatory deadline of 31 August for the transfer of funds between voivodships. Upon publication of the amount of unallocated funds of the fund in the BIP, the voivodships will be able to apply within 10 working days for the transfer of funds to cover those applications which are outside the limit. This will increase the number of bus journeys financed by the Fund. The project will most likely have a positive impact on local labour markets. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u348	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position on the draft law amending the Public Service Bus Development Fund Act, print No 2014. The amendment provided for an extension until 31 December 2023 of the provisions of the Act, but also proposed a transfer of unused funds from the Bus Development Fund to support connections in voivodships where the allocated amount was lower than requested by local authorities. Such voivodships were four: Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie, Pomorskie and Śląskie. I would like to say that, as a rule, the parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition absolutely support all promotion measures, but also the financing of transport and public transport, but it is nevertheless worth mentioning two things about this project, which entered into force in 2019. From the very beginning, we have pointed out that the records, or more specifically the rates that have been recorded, do not correspond to the reality. Thus, in 2019 this fund was used only in 3%, in 2020 in 17%, because there was simply no interest, because the rate for cars kilometres at the level of zloty did not give any chance to convince those who were supposed to carry out these services. At the moment, the amount of 3 PLN, which was proposed in 2021, of course aroused commitment and interest, bus lines started, you can say, with hooves and new routes appeared. During the debate, however, today it would be worth considering whether these 3 zlotys will be enough because, even considering the price of fuel, we will look at a shield that is slowly rusting, because the price of 1 l of petrol after the introduction of this shield was supposed to be 5 zlotys, and at the moment it is already 5,40 zlotys per l, and remember that this shield ends on July 31... If VAT goes up from 8% to 23%, the fuel price will, of course, increase accordingly. In addition to this, of course, personal costs and each other in the age of inflation, this cost, so the question is whether these 3 zlotys, this rate adopted a few months ago will correspond to the reality and whether it will make some people close the line. And the second thing to mention is, however, what was happening at the turn of December and January, because in many places there was a spectrum of bus decommissioning. I mentioned these four voivodships: Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie, Pomorskie and Śląskie. The loudest situation was in the Mazowieckie voivodship, where these bus lines, the number of connections scheduled for liquidation did not go into several, but even in dozens of connections. E.g. the district of Lipski: 20 connections were scheduled in January to be wound up due to the fact that there was simply no money available. Białybrzeg County: 16 connections to liquidation. So you could say that the lines were opened, and then mostly the starosts, because this is where the communal unions are trained, and they heard that there wouldn't be any money for it. Today is the second half of February, of course we are still discussing it. The Senate must speak on this matter, and the President must sign the bill. How long does it take? There is uncertainty as to whether these measures will appear and in short whether these bus lines will be resumed, and we are talking about people who are commuting to work, but also to school. If we want to take this idea of promoting public transport seriously through bus transport, which is a good idea, then we need to make its financing real, but also make it real and keep it going for a long time. It seems that this deadline of 31 December 2023 should also be moved forward by at least a few years, because this programme is worth keeping in such a way that also local government officials, voivodships, starosts are sure that this programme will not be terminated. In summary, the Civic Coalition will support the draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. We also draw attention to the few proposals that would be worth adopting at the legislative stage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u350	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u351	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to remind you of the dramatic situation of almost 14 million Poles and Poles, who are excluded by transport every day, have no way to travel from their village to the chosen one - to work, school, doctor or shopping - because there is no bus or train nearby. Of course, quitting a connection that only runs twice a day is not a solution. Not everyone can drive a car, not everyone can afford a car like this. Without efficient collective communication, there is no question of a worthy life. Any plans, dreams, contacts with loved ones or professional development can't crash about, it would seem, something as prosaic as the lack of a bus and a train in the area. A firm system effort is needed to avoid such personal dramas. It is particularly about areas outside larger cities and agglomerations, where usually public transport - I will not engage in a detailed discussion about its quality - is functioning. It is difficult for the inhabitants of Warsaw or Łódź to imagine that traveling to the nearest clinic can be a few hours trip, because the bus leaves at an hour. The doctor's visit is at 7 p.m. Nine, and the only course home will be at hours. 16, if anything drives. Sometimes you don't even have it. For this reason, it is worth to lean on the proposed amendment of the law on the development fund for bus transport, which is an attempt to combat transport exclusion at the level of the voivodships. Thanks to the new solutions and increases in rates, and in principle to maintain the increased rate during the pandemic - I will remind you that it was increased from PLN 3 per car km and this will be maintained until the end of 2023 - further applications for bus subsidies will be considered positively because their previous rejection was mainly due to a large number of applications and insufficient funds. It can be seen that the use of these measures is of great interest among the voivodships. So far the grant has received several thousand connections - there may be even more - in four voivodships: Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie, Pomorskie and Śląskie. The interest was so great, it wasn't enough. Of course, it is the right idea that these measures, which remain unused in one voivodship, can be redirected to those in which this demand is greater. I will bring up a few problems that could be solved in the context of the amendment of this law, and the discussion on this issue has not been discussed. Firstly, the multi-annual agreements for local authorities, which would guarantee the existence and financing of a specific merger between local authorities and passengers. At this point, funding can only be paid for a year. Why can't you think of multi-annual contracts, at least for a few years, two years or three years? This would guarantee the operation of such connections. Secondly, unused funds. True, now it will certainly be less of them thanks to the possibility of moving them from one voivodeship to another, but still unused funds will fund the road fund. They should be aimed at improving the functioning of collective transport and combating transport exclusion. Thirdly, the question of the search engine, the journeys that are co-financed. Why, if we donate specific connections, don't start building a public and convenient call search engine for passengers? In view of the well-being of the inhabitants of smaller cities and villages and the need to combat transport exclusion, the coalition club Leży will support this bill. I would like to make it clear that, in order for the bus services financed to be effective, they must provide a good timetable and respond to the needs of the passengers. I appeal to the voivodships and local authorities to take matters professionally. Otherwise, buses will serve only as a nice picture during press conferences, but they will ride twice a day and on weekends they will not drive at all. Such networking is not a fight against transport exclusion and it is not a solution to problems of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u352	Member Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u353	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public transport of bus services, prints No. 2014 and 2020. Of course, we will support these changes because they are technical changes. It is about transferring funds from voivodships in which they were not used to voivodships where resources are missing. Development and these connections must be supported. Not everything looks as colorful as you've been saying for a long time. You're saying that you're eliminating white spots, that you're restoring connections. In fact, in 2021, the marshal of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, in which Law and Justice rule, boasted that nine bus lines would return to the roads of the Podlaskie Voivodeship in mid-July. He replaced them. He claimed that they would return with support from the voivodship's budget of 700,000. zł. The remaining part of their costs were to be covered by the Bus Development Fund. He said it was another step to eliminate white spots in the voivodship, that thanks to running connections buses would reach smaller towns, that it would be a lot easier for tourists, because some buses would go to holiday resorts. This is how Mr. Artur Kosicki assessed the situation of the Marshals of the voivodship. Of course, all routes are mentioned. One of them is the route from Ciechanowiec to Białystok through Shepietowo, High Mazowieckie, Waniewo. The cost of launching these lines is PLN 1.8 million. 1.1 million zlotys are to come from the government's bus development fund, 700 thousand. zł from the budget of the voivodship. These services are provided by PKS Nova, a company governed by commercial law, 100% of which The shares belong to the Podlaskie government. This year the Podlaskie voivodship has already acquired PLN 11 million under the Bus Transport Development Fund. This allowed the connection to be restored on 35 routes. The money on nine consecutive lines was obtained from additional recruitments under the government's program to restore local connections. Everything's nice. It looks beautiful. Of course, we all listen to Mr. Marshal's attention, but already on 15 February 2022 local government officials from the county of Wysokie Mazowiecki receive a letter from the president of the company Podlaskie Komunikacji Samochodowej Nova Spółka Akcyjna, the information that from 1 July 2022 there will be no service on the following lines of general interest: Ciechanowiec - Białystok by Szepietowo, Wysokie Mazowieckie, Waniewo. The organizer of the WW. courses are currently located in Podlaskie Voivodship. The current agreement concluded between the company and the Podlaskie voivodship ends on 30 June 2022 and will not be extended for a further period. This means that a large part of the courses currently conducted by the municipality will not be carried out. I kindly inform you that further implementation of these routes depends on you, the local authorities concerned, taking specific actions under the provisions of the Public Collective Transport Act. PKS Nova expresses its readiness to continue providing these services and is always open to needs reported by local communities. If you're interested in further transport, I'd like you to meet me and give me more details. So today they're going to contribute to this, and they're going to have to take on a lot of responsibilities, and they're going to have to take on new responsibilities. Here is the fund, on the other hand the Marshal deprives a large part of the inhabitants of my voivodship of connections, and then says that if local government officials want to contribute, then please, this line will be if the funds flow. This is, I think, a renunciation of responsibility again, because these successes are praised by the government. If the local government does not find these funds, the line will not be maintained, everything will be dropped to individual mayors. Not that way, because the inhabitants of the voivodship want to get to the capital of the voivodship, they want to travel by these buses. Not everyone can afford their own car (the bell), not everyone has the opportunity to use a different mode of transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u354	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u355	I'm not questioning these rather technical changes to the bill. I'm questioning the bill itself. I question the idea of subsidising something that doesn't pay off at the expense of something that pays off. The subsidy of short-term bus services is simply a systemic incentive to use resources in a manner that is not in line with customers' expectations. The profit is the form in which customers inform the entrepreneur that their service is needed. The more you need it, the more money you can make. Resources are always limited: work, money, raw materials. There's always a limited amount of them, so if they show up in one place, they won't show up in another place. If there's more buses going around the villages, it'll be less traveling around the cities. Or if we put more money on the buses globally, we'll do less on something else. It's gonna be less, I don't know, shoes, butter, right, or something else. The legislator here, of course, seems to be coming from some opposite assumption that resources are potentially unlimited and it is only necessary to artificially generate an impulse to direct them to an episode where, as officials think, they know best, they are needed. This is, of course, an old, reheated sophism of broken glass, because resources are really limited by the search for profit by those who have these resources, they are simply directed where they serve the most efficiently as many people as possible, because that's when they generate the biggest profit. These types of funds to pay for deficit courses are reduced by the fact that buses, instead of going where most people use them, will drive empty in forests and fields. This is simply a systemic incentive to misallocate resources. The funding for these deficit projects does not fall from the sky. They're taken from places where they make profits, and they're headed where they bring losses. In this way, we punish those who serve their customers best and discourage profitable activities. Once again, you're just looking at the direct and easily noticeable effects that this is the beginning of a new bus line, because you can see it. But you can't see that the money on this line comes from other places where there will be fewer of them and there will be no service or good, because their threshold of profitability is lowered, for example. by taxation or if, more often than recently, instead of taxes, you will finance this money by creating empty money. They will not arise because the capital created by a resourceful entrepreneur is eaten by inflation and under such conditions it is not worth saving, investing in the long term, it is worth to eat everything immediately and reach out for state subsidies. Of course, there are people who can use such naive programs for pain. They add some ridiculous stops, here and there, to the tour, so that she gets caught on some kind of criterion. or to eliminate competition, e.g. In the Sokołowski district, I was told such situations that I added to some bus line a stop so that she would catch on to these grants (the bell) and thus finish off fair and active competition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u356	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u357	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! There's no minister? It's okay. I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. In principle, the project provides for two areas of change. The first area is related to the maintenance of the increased rate of aid from the Fund up to PLN 3. According to these provisions, the increased rate will apply until 31 December 2023, i.e. for the next 2 years. This is a good decision, which we have repeatedly communicated to the Ministry about the need for implementation. Let me remind you that these discussions took place at various committee meetings. It is a pity that this is not a real, final entry in the law of this rate as a basic rate, because today we need such a change, but we hope that the Ministry will accept this change in the nearest amendment. The second area of change is related to the possibility of transferring funds between voivodships where they have not been used. They will be able to be used in those places that have already reached their limit. This concerns among others. Mazowieckie, Pomorskie, Podkarpackie, but also Śląskie voivodship. Personally, I am very pleased that thanks to our decision Śląsk Cieszyński will most likely receive additional funds to finance public transport in the district of Cieszyn. That's very good news. Of course, the law itself or the amendment is a step in the right direction, but in order to make real changes, we must de facto change the philosophy of perception of public transport. Today, many decision-makers see public transport as a necessary evil as a position in the cost account, but this is not a cost, but an investment. It's an investment in development, in the economy, in education, in health. These problems must be dealt with in turn, including, of course, the most important one, namely the lack of connections, but the problem of the regularity of connections is no less important. This problem can not be seen, but really the regularity of the connections and the distribution of them over time, i.e. the corresponding timetable, can cause people to return to public transport. The third problem is the integration of transport, both in terms of network connections and tickets. It could also be a powerful impulse for public transport to develop. And of course, the issue of forming transport islands, i.e. connections only within municipalities or only within powiats. In all these areas, we need strong impulses. Of course, this does not solve all the problems, but in Poland 2050 we believe that public transport is an extremely important (Dawn) public service, which is why we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u358	Thank you very much. Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the wording of the Article. 28 changes have been proposed which will allow the transfer of funds from the Fund to the voivodships, whose appropriations in the financial year were not sufficient. Since there is no one in government benches, he was very much asking for written information, in which voivodships lacked those resources, which are values and which voivodships did not use these funds or would not use them in 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u360	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister when the funds could go to local governments. I ask in the context of the district of Cieszyński, which, I think, has been overlooked in such a sad way as to the voivodeship's decisions regarding the allocation of funds. Of course, this is an important incentive to create broad transport agreements, because if this adds points, it is of course important. On the other hand, it is extremely important that these measures be made as soon as possible. Well, Minister, I think I'll ask for a virtual response, maybe to our e-mail address, maybe in some other way. I call for public transport measures to reach Cieszyński Silesia as soon as possible. The point is that the government doesn't wait for the voivod to decide very quickly. all decisions (the bell) because we need these measures. That's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u362	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law this change is, you might say, technical, because it is about shifting unused funds from one voivodship to another voivodship. I have a question, although I do not know who to address, because no one in the government has bothered to be in this debate. But I'm gonna try to... [[Voice from the room: It's remote.]] Remotely, aha, remotely. That's good. Thanks for the heads-up. Were there measures in Podlaskie Voivodship that were not used? This fund makes it easier, of course, in many places this exclusion of communication is smaller, but unfortunately in my voivodship, in the Podlaskie voivodship still many connections are missing, many connections are not created, many places are excluded by communication. So I call on you to continue to develop (the bell) assistance in relation to such connections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u364	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For many weeks I have controlled the voivodship office and the voivodship of Konstanty Radziwiłł. For many weeks I have intervened through interpelations, but also through other inquiries to Minister Adamczyk, in order to restore transport in the Szydłowiec district, in the territory of the municipality of Chlewiska. The municipality of Chlewska remained during this difficult time when it was winter, when there were snowstorms, and now there are also issues... It's just that when the sun goes down, after dark, there's no public transport to Szyd3owiec. There is no communication that is necessary for the normal functioning of the inhabitants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should amend this law as soon as possible, and it is necessary. But on the other hand, it shows what a mess you have, ladies and gentlemen, in the ministries, because last year this allocation of funds showed that money was badly divided into different voivodships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: When will the money go to the Szydłowiec district to be able to restore communication? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u366	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u367	Dear Marshal, You're not here, Minister! High Izbo! Even if a man wants to agree with you and applaud you, you'll do anything to make it harder for him. The bus fund is a good idea. I've been rooting for it ever since. But why do you keep throwing logs at those who want to use it? At the moment, local authorities do not have the possibility of using the fund in the long term. The rules are made out of jumps, and one temporary solution chases the other. You've extended the increase in the surcharge by a year. Minister, what's next? We don't know. How do you want to change this bill so that local authorities can think about the development of bus transport in terms of not a year, but at least 10 years? This is the basis for planning, hiring staff or purchasing rolling stock. We can finally stop this crap and rebuild public transport after the pandemic. This isn't rocket science, so what are you waiting for? Good ideas are on the table, just use them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We no longer have time or patience for your inability. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u368	Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u369	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amended act on the development fund for bus transport is very important and expected, which has already been highlighted by many people. This law was introduced in 2019 and the rate for the transport of passengers was increased in 2020. During the pandemic of Coronavirus, this allowed many entrepreneurs, many companies to survive. We managed to eliminate slowly the communication exclusion, which has been in Poland for many years. Residents many towns haven't seen the bus for many previous years and they did not have the opportunity to travel. I see - on the example of my district of Garwolin, where PKS Garwolin operates - that this law will give disproportionate benefits, because there is more transport, the funds have been used and now thanks to these new measures will be able to compensate (the bell) for the financial arrears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u370	Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u371	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're changing art today. The 28th Bill. This gives the possibility to make the flow of funds between voivodships more flexible - from those that have not used them to those that still need them, so that these funds are useful. And that's a very good direction, worth the support. But I wanted to ask the Minister - and I ask for a written reply - about the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, that is where the money, the funds from the fund remained unused. I wanted to ask you if the reason for this is that we have those bus lines that are supposed to be, or if there is any other reason why we shouldn't use this money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u372	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the conclusion of multi-annual contracts for bus services, and this is not a matter taken from the ceiling. This is what Minister Andrzej Bittel spoke about in the autumn of 2020 during the public transport congress. He made it clear, clearly, that the Ministry, the Ministry, thought about introducing such a novel in this law, so that local government officials, when concluding contracts, would have a guarantee that the agreement would be in force for the next few years. I'd like to know if you've finally come up with something in this area over the last year and a half. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Minister Weber did not answer my question. I hope that he will address this issue today, because it is a very important issue, especially for those who want to enter these projects, they want to start bus connections in their own area, in their local districts (The Bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u374	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is good that the term of operation is extended until 2023, until the end of December, this law in many respects, but in my opinion the rate of PLN 3 per tonne-kilometre is absolutely insufficient, given the high inflation. 3 zlotys is no longer worth what it was worth a year ago, first of all. As far as the price of fuel is concerned, the shield won't be working for long. The price of spare parts, wages - everything was spent. Why didn't the government offer another solution that would automatically change this rate? I don't think any of the reasonable people here in this room think there's a return to PLN 1 because it's just never gonna happen. So I'm asking why there was no other mechanism used to make it more (the bell) stabilizing in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u376	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! Sustainable development is good transport. And good transport is public transport, one that gives a sense of responsibility for the citizen, but also gives a sense of responsibility to the citizen, non-exclusive and opener. Unfortunately, in many powiats and communes of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship there is still no such transport. This is due to too little government activity, also in the field of identifying specific carriers, giving opportunities for this development from the perspective of government laws, so any solution such as this law should open these doors even more. I therefore ask the Minister for a written reply as he intends to strengthen public transport in districts such as Nakielski, Zninski, Inowrocławski or Tucholski. There's a lot of exclusion out there all the time. The more we help the local community, the more chance she'll be grateful for it later. Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u378	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! You're not here, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask what measures, what concrete aid Wielkopolska can rely on from this program. In Wielkopolska, there is a local government partner who organized and can make constructive use of any funding aimed at combating transport exclusion, in this case with bus exclusion. In Wielkopolska, a county-city association called Wielkopolska Regional Transport was established six months ago as a new organization of local government, which was formed by 23 counties. The aim of the association is to restructure, renew the rolling stock of Poznań PKS using EU funds - hopefully, as well as from our Polish budget. Construction of a new network of connections integrated with the Poznań Metropolitan Railway (Dzwonek), which has been a great success...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u380	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u381	It is also a local government initiative. What measures can this relationship... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u382	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I travel by public transport in the field and I see such a phenomenon that if there is a fairly frequented line, there are 2, 3 lines that are started, but somewhere about 2 km away there is a village. There comes the bus in the morning, the bus arrives in the evening and it's all communications. Wouldn't it be possible to think, make the surcharge a little more flexible? How the average surcharge is e.g. 3 zł, but the voivode or local government, the district government sees that somewhere it would be necessary to run such a line, that where there is a line, it can finance 3 zł, and where it is necessary to run the line, it could finance 6 zł, so that only it was created there, to a particular carrier, because it has to pay for him. Can we not introduce such flexibility for those who decide on these measures? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u384	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The possibility of a transfer of funds under the so-called law. a bus fund from voivodships in which they have not been fully used is a good solution. The Silesian Voivodeship made full use of its limit. There is a deficit of PLN 14 million. After the changes to the law, the number of lines with funding according to the provision of the infrastructure department will exceed 5 000. So I ask you to answer the question, which funds from the transfers foreseen for the Śląskie voivodship are foreseen for Żywietki, Bielski, Cieszyński and Pszczyński voivodship? The number of connections the above can count on. powiaty? I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u386	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment of Article 30a paragraph. 2 of the Fund Act consists in maintaining an increased rate of aid from the Bus Transport Development Fund of a general interest from PLN 1 to PLN 3 up to 31 December 2023. Wouldn't it be safer to write that from an amount not less than 3 PLN to an amount e.g. not more than PLN 3,60 per tonne-kilometre until 31 December 2023? I draw attention to the fact that in the meantime the costs increase so strongly, inflation, repairs, parts, insurance, wages, that perhaps the presented values recorded in the bill will simply eliminate a certain number of bus lines and we will be in trouble to keep the lines in a contractual quantity, we will simply return to a situation reduced (the Bell) securing the transport. Pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u388	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u389	Since the Bureau's generosity has limited our time to 3 minutes, I will now try to finish what has not been said in the speech. Another aspect is that thanks to these subsidies the costs of living in a remote area are artificially understated. The people who move to the center pay more for the apartment, for the property, just to get closer to the center to make it easier for them to get there. Those people who paid more for their apartments now are also forced to make extra payments to those who paid less have stayed further from the center to pay for their transportation to the center. It's an impulse. It's also for spilling cities. Contrary to what the Left was grieving about here on another occasion, it is an economic incentive to live far away, or in any case to eliminate the incentive to, for example. rationally carry out if someone needs commuting on a regular basis. Or to work out some other way to move, so that it makes economic sense. This fund is typical (the bell) of socialism and should be abolished.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u390	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Bus Transport Development Fund is a good initiative and that's probably why I'm going to vote for this bill, but it has to be said that this money would have to be divided a little differently. Because they should go mainly to areas that are excluded by transport. Not all of them, but no transports. These are areas that do not cross any railway line, where there is no national road, only local roads. In my region, in my district, these are the districts such as the Gryficki district, the stone district, the boulders, part of the Goleni district and this is where the money should be found. I would like to receive a written reply from the Minister: How many lines have this money been able to recreate in these counties? Because it's important and it's not about driving between metropolitans and bedrooms at all, it's about driving to the workplace, back to the place (the bell) of shopping and back, and it's really important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u392	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Bus Development Fund is an important part of the elimination of the communication exclusion in particular in the areas of post-pegeer. There, indeed, municipalities can fight the exclusion of communication thanks to this fund. But it is important, firstly, that there is a certain continuity in the operation of this mechanism. It is important for passengers to operate this line for a longer period of time. After all, it's a commute to professional school or high school, it's a commute to work. Secondly, entrepreneurs who perform these services would be sure. And thirdly, the government, which is responsible for planning. I therefore support this proposal for you to work on multi-annual co-financing agreements with the Bus Development Fund. That would be a thoughtful state policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u394	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The public service bus development fund is a support fund governed by a law which was adopted in 2019, i.e. under the rule of law and justice. Right now, I'm gonna go to all of these people asking them not to criticize everything in the champ because they say it's a mess. We are dealing, ladies and gentlemen, with the Government of Law and Justice, which is vulnerable to social needs and beyond many other social issues, after all the needs of children, young people and older people have been met, he has also noticed these communication exclusions, and that is why today it is important to thank the government for continuing this programme and for serving society well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u396	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is of course needed, but talking about this project and the promotion of public transport, it is impossible to avoid urban transport. Because the public transport facilities did not get any help from the shield during the pandemic, and yet all costs go up, now the whole Polish Load, which caused the cities to have to add up. There are cities which, like Łódź, will have 300 million less in the budget, which results in higher ticket prices or cutting the public transport line. This is the case in many cities in the Łódź voivodship, where the mayors, but also the presidents decided to cut these lines. Therefore, I have a question for the Ministry. It's a shame there's no one in this room to answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u398	It is, only remotely, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u399	Then I hope that someone remotely will answer: Is anyone working to find such an appropriate fund (the bell) to finance public transport facilities so that they can also participate in this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u400	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u401	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Public Service Bus Development Fund Act is a very good law. Thanks to it it was possible to eliminate white spots, we fought effectively against the exclusion of communication. This rate of PLN 3 per 1 km is good. I know that from the carriers who say it allows them to function peacefully. I thank Minister Weber for the fact that this bill to amend the law is so quickly being processed, because it is indeed the people of the southern part of the Mazowieckie voivodship, as well as the residents of the Ostrowice voivodship, who are waiting for it. Thanks to these measures, communication organized by the district of Opatowski - Powiatowe Zakład Transportu w Opatów works well. I have this question: How does the involvement of voivodships in organizing transport take place and how does the Świętokrzyskie voivodship stand against this background? Once again, thank you for doing this bill so well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u402	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public transport is an extremely important but also sensitive area. We still have plenty of places in Poland, not a small village, where the population is excluded by transport. If today we are thinking about sustainable development of the country, in the long term, this sustainable development of the country will not be, if there is no access to proper transport, and I mean especially these small towns. I have a question for the Minister, please reply in writing: What was the situation, how many new lines were created as a result of this co-financing, the creation of this fund in the Lublin Voivodeship and to what extent did it use the funds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u404	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with another discretionary fund, from which funds are paid, as the law says, in order to meet the transport needs of the community in the voivodship area. But is 3 zloty enough? It's not enough. It's not enough. I'm asking the government to reconsider this payment. The aid does not cover urban transport, but depends on the number of voivodships in which the majority of the population are inhabitants in huge urban centres, You are proposing cosmetic changes to the document, which, in my opinion, requires a complete redrafting and fundamental changes. Please inform whether the inhabitants of the Sępolenski, Tucholskie and secular districts in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship will have a chance to pay the State in the right way to transport people. When agreements are signed at the expense of local governments, there are more people in the voivodship than you now have in this House (the bell) because there are only two people. But I understand you're so interested in getting people to work and places to study. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u406	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, will now speak. You're welcome. Please, Minister. We can see you, but we can't hear you. [[The Secretary of State's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u408	Yes. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I hope you can hear me. [[Why not the bus?]] I am on the road - just today a contract was signed, another one, for the construction of Via Carpatia in the north of Lublin Voivodeship - and I reach Warsaw. Using Internet techniques, I will answer the questions that have been raised in this parliamentary debate. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their participation in this debate, for their concern about collective transport. Thank you for your honesty, because here too we have had very sincere speeches, including. Mr Sosnier, who said that this fund would be abolished. Thank you for your honesty, but I absolutely disagree here. I believe that the Government of Law and Justice is a government of construction, not liquidation. Until then, when the collective transport was actually abolished, the PKS were liquidated, the railway lines were destroyed, the tracks were literally unscrewed, we certainly will not return. We want to develop communication in our country, also in smaller towns. We want to direct enough funds there to support local governments. So that the Government of Law and Justice is a government of construction, not liquidation. But thank you so much for your honesty, she's important in politics as little as possible. I also thank you for not having tabled any amendments to this bill, because that means that tomorrow we will be able to vote on them, so this will go through one session of the Sejm. To those who asked about time, they asked when, because they cared about time, I have a request that the Senate should not delay the work on this bill. I think the Senate's next meeting is in over two weeks. Maybe it's worth calling them up earlier, maybe it's worth to reconvene this project earlier, so that help to these local governments from four provinces: Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie, Pomorskie and Silesian, arrive as soon as possible. We, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, will surely provide this assistance when the bill enters into force. And it will enter into force shortly after publication. On the other hand, every day is important, and it is good that the Senate dealt with this subject earlier than March 9th or 10th. It is a request to colleagues from the opposition who can influence the Marshal of the Senate to speed up these work. I also thank you for your valuable remarks, such as those related to long-term contracts. We're actually working on that solution. Long-term contracts according to our intention could be concluded between the voivode and the organizer, i.e. the unit of the local government, to give them... [[Disruption of reception]] and that the fund is such a system tool and a multi-annual tool to support collective transport, but also multi-annual contracts between the organiser and the operator, i.e. between the local government unit and the company that carries out these services, in order to show the company that it is possible to invest, for example, in the exchange of rolling stock or in the training of employees, drivers who will carry out this transport. So that we are actually working on this solution and I hope that this year it will be created and will come into force. Also within the framework of the national reconstruction programme, which I hope will be unlocked by the European Commission, quickly launched, I might say, we have the funds indicated for the renewal of rolling stock. Because funding for the creation of communication lines and the financing of transport in kilometers is one thing, but there must be a combination of changing rolling stock to modern, comfortable, safe and ecological rolling stock. We also think about such rolling stock, we want to give the possibility to finance local government units, those that have carriers, to give the possibility to raise funds for the replacement of rolling stock. This will also improve the quality of collective transport. The quality of collective transport will also depend on the choices of the Polish society. Someone who's supposed to get on the bus, like I say, clean, neat, modern, will just use it. Now it may hesitate, because we are dealing very often with the exploited rolling stock. I think that the modernisation of this rolling stock will result in greater attractiveness of collective communication and collective transport (the Bell) and, of course, the benefits will be very high. Why are we not focusing on urban transport, but on extra-urban transport, the county transport, the provincial transport? It is precisely our predecessors from the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party who have created such regulations, under which they have imposed obligations on local government units in terms of the implementation of such transport services. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: They are implemented by local government units, in one place better, in another place worse, but it is the responsibility of the local government, and we want to support this kind of funding. The other questions, as requested by your Members, shall be addressed in writing. Thank you so much for supporting this bill. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee would like to take the floor? He's not here. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 51 hrs. 16 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, print No 2031. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws (print no. 2019). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. As regards the amendments to the law on pledges, this is the implementation of EU rules aimed at disseminating and implementing simplifications in the application of the instrument of pledges. I would like to remind you that the pledge letter is a security issued by mortgage banks, which aims at obtaining claims based on mortgage loans granted by the bank in question. With regard to the changes that we propose in the Act, firstly, we extend the scope of information that is contained in the terms of the issue of pledges. We lay down rules for banks to apply a European bond secured and a European bond secured (premium). We also lay down the conditions for the eligibility of derivatives in the pool of assets that are collateralised with pledges. It is very important that, in addition to spreading the use of this security, we introduce a number of changes and safeguards for buyers of such securities. Above all, the activities of mortgage banks in this area will be supervised by KNF. In addition, each mortgage bank will be required to report to KNF at least once every 12 months on the application of the pledge instrument. In addition, mortgage banks will be required to report quarterly on compliance with statutory and administrative conditions for the issuance of pledges. In addition, they will also be required to inform customers about how the pledge lists are issued, what capital values are secured, as well as about all rights available to buyers of such letters. There is also a change in the threshold for public calls. There are currently two thresholds: 66% And 33%. The draft law introduces one threshold: 50% which will be a simplification. This solution is applied in Finland and Latvia. This will benefit individual investors. Currently, the buyer is required to announce a call to buy all shares when the threshold is 66% Whereas at this point we lower the threshold and introduce this obligation in a situation where the acquisition will exceed the threshold of 50%. In addition, we make a number of other changes beneficial to retail investors in the event of a call. Such requests were made by retail investors, as well as during consultations on this draft law. First of all, we introduce a voluntary call mechanism for all other public company shares, such as the mandatory call. Standards will be harmonised in favour of a voluntary call. We include the price of indirect acquisition of shares of a public company in fixing the minimum price in the call. We clarify the rules on securing calls and introduce the principle of joint and several liability in the event that there is more than one calling party. At that time, all actors are jointly and severally responsible for the calls. Probably the most favourable change for individual investors is the introduction of a uniform price for all those who sell such papers. If, for example. As a result of the court proceedings, one of the sellers contested the fair value of the buy-back and the court would have granted it the right, the price that this single retail investor would have automatically paid to all others and the buyer would have had to compensate for the price. The latest amendment I am going to mention concerns the creation of an IPS mechanism, i.e. a system for the protection of commercial banks. At this point in time, it is already in place for cooperative banks. It is based on the fact that all commercial banks will be able to join the IPS on a voluntary basis, the protection system that will take the form of a public limited liability company. It will be subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Committee. As I said, this accession is voluntary. On the other hand, for participation in such a protection scheme in the event of problems of a commercial bank with liquidity ratios, a liquidity buffer, but also in the event of a resolution procedure, it will be possible to support such a bank. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So this is a very important change. It is also worth noting that these are completely private funds paid by the bank. So that we introduce further safeguards for the financial system, but financed by private banks, not by public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u410	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - a positive position - in relation to the draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws, print no 2019. The proposed law aims to implement the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. This package also takes into account the views and recommendations of the European Banking Authority, which has carried out a comprehensive analysis of regulatory developments in the context of the framework for covered bonds in individual Member States, recommending their harmonisation at European Union level in accordance with best supervisory practices. Ladies and gentlemen! Depending on the different legal systems, but also on a certain historical feature concerning the creation of banking systems, this is very different, so there have been procedures to harmonise this formula. Specific information and reporting obligations are also introduced for issuers of covered bonds and special public oversight of those instruments. The draft law also provides for amendments in addition to the Act of 29 August 1997 - Banking law on the rules governing the establishment and functioning of an institutional protection system, the introduction, in particular to the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the rules governing the rules and modalities for the issue of bonds by asset managers under the compulsory restructuring instrument. The introduction of Directive 2019/2162 requires adequate complementing or clarification of national rules, including in our country. It should be pointed out that under Polish terms the equivalent of covered bonds within the meaning of Directive 2019/2162 are pledge lists issued by specialised mortgage banks in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 29 August 1997 on pledge lists and mortgage banks. The definition of the pledge letter is introduced, referring to the dual regression mechanism already mentioned by the Minister, which provides the instruments with the possibility to claim both against the issuer of the pledge letter and from the pool of assets securing the pledge letters. The scope of the terms used under the Act on the definition of basic assets, replacement assets, collateralised assets, collateral pool and over-insurance shall be supplemented. The scope of the information to be contained in the underlying letter issuance conditions is broadened and rules are laid down for national banks to apply the European Secured Bond and the European Premium Secured Bond. Additional requirements for monitoring the issuance of mortgage bonds are introduced. Information requirements for the issuance of pledges are introduced, particularly cyclical reporting obligations for mortgage banks vis-à-vis the Financial Supervision Commission are established. The Act also aims to extend the asset categories underlying the issuance of public securities while defining additional requirements in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the outset, the Law and Justice Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u412	Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u413	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws, print no. 2019, is a fairly extensive project, with more than 500 pages of records. The Minister has presented the ideas. We agree with them. First of all, it is about implementing the European directive and adapting our legislation so that in the European Union this whole area - with us called pledge lists, and in Europe covered bonds - is uniform. At the same time, on this occasion, I see that you are changing the rules regarding the call to buy shares. You also spoke quite extensively about this. The project seems quite solidly prepared and quite solidly discussed with the entities with which it should be most, i.e. the Association of Polish Banks and with Polish banks. At this stage, we support these changes. Of course, we'll look at it in the committees and get to know the details. Often the devil is in the details, the intentions seem good, and during the work of the committee, we will express our position during the second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u414	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Coalition Club of the Left to the government draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. The proposed bill is an adaptation of Polish law to EU law. The package of EU directives and regulations to which we adapt Polish law takes into account the opinions and recommendations of the European Banking Authority. The project also contains provisions that respond to developments in the domestic capital market, including changes in calls to sign up for the sale or exchange of shares of public companies. The Regulation of the European Parliament provides for the introduction of requirements for the over-insurance of replacement assets for covered bonds. In Poland, the equivalent of covered bonds is the pledge lists issued by specialised mortgage banks, which is regulated by the Act of 29 August 1997. The Act also includes the obligation to announce a call to sign up for the sale or change of all other shares. The amendments presented in the draft regulate issues which fall within the directive's objective, but do not come directly from its provisions. I would also like to raise a point that the Minister did not mention. The draft is and has been submitted for consultation, but has influenced the opinion of the National Association of Cooperative Banks, in which the relationship points out that it supports the proposed direction of change, but the draft law has not been publicly consulted before and contains significant errors and inaccuracies, and calls for its proposals to be taken into account, e.g. concerning the protection system referred to in Article. 22a Act on the functioning of cooperative banks in the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act of 15 February 1992. Minister! This project was visited by your marshals 2 days ago, today is the first reading, probably the second reading on the Finance Committee will not take place during this meeting. It will also be a good time to discuss this subject and possibly take some amendments into account. I usually present projects that adapt Polish law to European law. The Left supports this direction and we will certainly continue to work on it. And now I will ask my colleague Mr Shopiński to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u416	High Izbo! In Poland we could observe a successful attempt to take over the existing bank for many years and track the fate of its owner. I'm afraid to think if it was a general rehearsal before another one of these surgeries. As a self-government officer who has worked for many years at the voivodship level and at the municipal level, I wonder whether this law does not open the way to taking over the assets of local governments with loans in mortgage banks. For several years, the government has been reducing government revenues by all means possible, which may translate into problems with the timely repayment of loans. If the budget becomes the owner of the debt list of a bank whose timely repayment may be compromised, it can, in short, lead to a forced restructuring of the bank by taking over the collateral provided by the local authorities and thereby paralyzing the work of some and giving the green light to others. Therefore, on behalf of my club, I would like to make a request to the Minister and ask for his reply in writing before any further elements that we will discuss in this law. Namely, do there exist in the framework of banking law provisions protecting the assets of local governments covered by the mortgage against such actions which I have presented, from the government? Are such laws real? Are there mechanisms that will not cause such hostile takeovers as I described? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u418	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law, which contains print no. 2019, on which we are starting work in the form of a first reading of a document sent only a few days ago to the Sejm, is called: on the amendment of the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. In its essential content, they shall primarily implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of covered bonds and the public supervision of covered bonds and shall also apply the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019. Together, these two EU documents constitute a regulatory package for covered bonds and take into account the recommendations of the European Banking Authority and comply with the recommendations of the Authority on harmonisation at Union level in accordance with best supervisory practices in the Member States concerning this financial area. The project also provides for changes in calls for the sale or exchange of shares of public companies, which is already our national response to the observed developments in our domestic capital market. These changes, according to the government, should contribute in particular to strengthening the protection of the interests of minority investors. And it is good if they really achieve that goal. Secured bonds are regulated in European countries or in the European Union unevenly and domestic markets are developing unevenly. The conditions for investing in covered bonds and the associated capital requirements for credit institutions are now dispersed in a number of legal acts and in many EU regulations, so they need to be harmonised and included in a single legislative package. Under Polish conditions, because we are talking about covered bonds, the equivalent of these bonds are the bonds issued by specialised mortgage banks. Such a pledge is a debt security issued by a mortgage bank in accordance with the provisions already in force since 29 August 1997 of the Law on pledges and mortgage banks and is secured by assets securing pledges against which the holders of pledges have a direct claim both to a mortgage bank and to a separate mass of bankruptcy as a preferential claim. This is therefore a really important regulation, requiring careful legislative work. In addition, the aim of the proposed changes by the government is not only to implement the EU Directive and Regulation, but also to achieve, as the government states in its justification, systemic consistency of the provisions relating to the liability structure and assets of credit institutions, and to ensure balance in that structure. Achieving this balance will enable the credit institution to be supported by the deposit guarantee scheme, whether by the bank guarantee fund or by the guarantee fund of the savings and credit banks, and in the event of the difficult situation of the credit institution and the need to intervene from these funds - using the compulsory restructuring instrument in the form of a takeover of the company. So we are dealing, as I said, with a really important law, a law which in the Marshal's staff was only two days old, where the first look, the first debate, the first exchange of views takes place at this moment. And as has already been said here, not everything has been properly consulted, for example, with the association of cooperative banks. Therefore, the Polish Coalition Club, which I represent here, the club, which includes PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, believes that this project should be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and subject to very solid legislative work, perhaps also in the form of an established subcommittee, in which I will gladly participate myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u419	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u420	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law aims primarily at implementing the regulatory package for covered bonds. Those amendments result from the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 and Regulation 2019/2160 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019. Importantly, the amendments to be introduced by the law into the Polish legal order respond to the contemporary challenges of supervision of the covered bond market. This is the result of a study by the European Banking Authority in individual Member States on regulatory developments in the context of the framework for such instruments. As a result of this analysis, recommendations were made for harmonisation at Union level. These proposals, these proposals and guidance are reflected in the provisions of the Directive and the Regulation. The changes resulting from European legislation concern, inter alia, the definition of a pledge letter, which refers to the dual regression mechanism, which will ensure that investors can claim both against issuers of letters and from the pool of assets securing those letters. We also have an extension of the scope of information that will be included under the terms of the issuance of pledges, or the establishment of conditions allowing derivatives to be classified into the pool of collateral assets. These changes appear to be extremely important from the point of view of the functioning of this market. Nevertheless, that is not all. The bill also contains amendments aimed at, among others, change of the institution of requests to sign up for the sale or exchange of shares of public companies, setting a single threshold, 50% , instead of two currently in force or introducing an interesting solution, I think, very appropriate from the point of view of individual investors, i.e. a uniform price for securities investors. The government points out that these changes are intended to improve the situation primarily of minority shareholders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, I request that the project be submitted to the Committee on Public Finance for further work, because we believe that it deserves further proceding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u421	Thank you. Members joined the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I'm closing the list of questions. Mr Rafał Adamczyk of the Left. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to ensure the operation of mortgage banks within the limits of law, a trustee function was established under the Act. This is the person appointed by the KNF, which remains completely independent of that institution, cannot be an employee of the mortgage bank over which it supervises. Without questioning anyone's competence or integrity, I would like to ask what is the meaning of this function in the light of Polish facts: the appointment of senior employees of the institution strictly, i.e. capital and personal, connected with the mortgage bank. If I could ask for a written reply at this stage, without my example, I would be very obliged to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u423	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you about this 50% threshold. Was it consulted with organisations that represent investors? What was the position in this regard? Wasn't there a controversy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u425	Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. There is no Member. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u426	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! During the club speech I said that this project seems well consulted with banks, while when I was sitting in the jury, I encountered this letter from the Polish cooperative bank association. However, as usual, after the consultation, you put something in this bill. You must know that handwriting. I wanted to know if it was reasonable, whether you were considering it and whether you would be making any amendments during the next work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u427	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, 500 pages, came here two days ago, so, of course, we don't know everything. My question concerns this phrase: synchronising the protection system, as I assume, bonds and the whole process both legally and in terms of electronic security. This indicates that a European institution must be involved. I wanted to ask who would coordinate this synchronised security system on behalf of the European structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u429	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding Mr Suchuni's question on the 50% threshold , it was consulted with individual investors' organisations, although with another project, which for various reasons goes slower, and this is a change needed and expected by the market. During the conciliation conference, the organisations accepted the proposed provisions and did not submit any systemic or fundamental comments. Therefore, on this basis, these provisions can be considered as agreed. They were transferred from this project I was talking about, actually, one to one. There were some small legislative issues there. Let's call it a deal. Of course, they were also discussed in the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, so that other ministries, including the Ministry of Development, which is also responsible for entrepreneurship, had the opportunity to review and comment on what they had not done. As far as Mr Salugi's question on the comments of cooperative banks is concerned, we know this letter. Let me get this straight. Firstly, this project does not concern cooperative banks. We know the demands that have been made. They were accepted by the GRASS committee. This is a committee that operates within the Financial Stability Committee. In addition to MF representatives there are representatives of KNF, BFG and the National Bank of Poland. In principle, the legislative proposals notified by the cooperative banks were endorsed by the GRASS committee. We're going to implement them. I just don't know if this project is the best place. I think we will implement these recommendations in the next financial market project. So that, in principle, we agree with the proposals of cooperative banks, but I do not know - that is to be considered and probably also to be discussed in committee - whether this project is for this place or another one that will probably be discussed in the High House soon. As for Mr Dyduch's question, as far as I understand it correctly, it concerns the protection system, i.e. the IPS. There will be no need for interference from any external institution here. It will be a public limited company set up like shares companies - a contract by the banks concerned. Of course, there will be supervision of KNF, which KNF simply exercises over financial market institutions. There will be no need to involve any third party, including the European Union or any other foreign entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u431	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 7 March 2022. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and from the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and Regional Policy on the urgent draft law amending the Act on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023 (prints No 2028 and 2031). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz, I apologize, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy a report on the urgent government draft law amending the Act on support for preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, print No 2028. High Izbo! Poland received the right to organise the games in 2019 at an extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly of the Association of European Olympic Committees. The National Olympic Committees, which are part of the Association of European Olympic Committees, have voted in favour of our candidacy, the candidacy of Krakow and Małopolska. Then representatives of the government, headed by the chairman of the organisational committee, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, together with representatives of the Polish Olympic Committee, headed by President Andrzej Kraśnicki, who is a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of European Olympic Committees, presented this candidacy. She got her support. According to today's debate during the examination of an urgent government bill, the time since the granting of the right to an organization until today, i.e. until the examination of this amendment, is divided into three stages. The first stage was a small euphoria associated with gaining the right to an organization. It can be said that, due to the pandemic and the lack of action by the government, there was peace. The second stage is last year. In December, we adopted a government project to support the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. During today's debate, it was stressed that that law did not have full coverage. First of all, it does not specify the amount of funding that the government will support Kraków and Małopolska in organising this event. In the meantime, a regulation of the Council of Ministers was published to the Act on Support of the Games in Krakow. This regulation provides for a total of 28 projects on sport infrastructure and road infrastructure to be implemented before the start of the games. The games are to be held in Krakow, but are to be co-organized by cities such as Tarnów, Krynica Zdrój, Zakopane and Chorzów. It is worth noting, and this was said to be a very important sporting event, because the 3rd European Games in Krakow will be the first games to be held in the European Union. This is also an important sporting event, because in a dozen or so disciplines on 24 played you will get Olympic qualifications to Paris. This is a very important issue for athletes, I think, also for our athletes. It is well known that today it is very difficult to get these Olympic qualifications, especially when we organize these competitions in Poland, there is a chance that we will get those qualifications there too. The period after the act was passed is a period of intensive contacts between representatives of the government and the local government of Krakow, with the region of Małopolska. As the deputy president of the city of Cracow reported today, in the last 6 months there has been an acceleration in the field of interaction and these talks have taken shape in the shape of what, can be said, is largely expected by the city of Cracow and the region of Małopolska. However, it was stressed that we had very little time left, and during the debate the issue of the risks associated with the timing of individual sports investments was raised. And here I will refer again to the response of the Deputy President of the city of Krakow. It follows from his statement made at the committee's meeting that this work is going according to the plan. Many of these works are, of course, already started, are included in the budget of the city of Krakow. There is only one threat (The Bell) concerning the construction of the canoeing track, namely it can be transferred to the Bagra flood, while in other cases there is no danger. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt this law. No amendments were tabled during the work. The Commission adopted the Act by 42 votes for, 0 against, with 3 abstentions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u433	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski, First Member, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I came to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Act on the Support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, in print No 2028 and 2031. The aim of the amendments to the Law of 2 December 2021 on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023 is to ensure the best possible financing of the Games by the government. The amendment of the Act aims to add a legal basis to the grant for the preparation and implementation of projects in connection with the organisation of the Games. The amendments made make it possible to include in the expenditure rule not only expenditure allocated to the subsidy of the Minister responsible for physical culture for the special purpose vehicle referred to in Article. The 9th Act, set up to prepare and implement the projects and carry out the tasks associated with the organisation of the Games, but also the expenditure of the Minister responsible for transport in the framework of the announced programmes supporting the preparation of the Games. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. Amendments to Article 33 The aim of the Act is to increase the maximum expenditure limit from the state budget - we have huge support - from 160 million to 960 million, including in 2022 to 536.6 million and in 2023 to 423 million. At the same time, the revised rules assume that the responsibility for monitoring the use of the expenditure limit and the implementation of the corrective mechanism will not only be the Minister responsible for physical culture but also the Minister responsible for transport. I would like to say that the European Games are a big event, a great promotion of Poland, a great promotion of sport, so it is a great privilege for our country that we can organise these European Games. We know very well that we are now in a pandemic period and there are different situations associated with this, sometimes it is a little slower, but as we can see, government work, ministry work is moving forward all the time. These amounts, as I reported here, are being increased, and I'm sure this infrastructure will look very good. Finally, I would also like to say that local government officials... E.g. At today's meeting of the joint committees, Mr. Vice President Krakow praised very good cooperation with the government, said that he did not see any threats regarding the organisation of this powerful event. So I think that after today's redeployment of these prints, it would be a good time to sign the relevant agreements between the government and the local governments. We know very well that the best athletes from the Old Continent will compete in 24 disciplines. To conclude, I will say this: Poland will certainly meet this challenge. We have a lot of experience in organizing such big sports events. At present, the ministries work very well together and all of this will be a great success. Let's just hope our athletes get the best of these medals in the European Games. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of the draft, in accordance with the print report No 2031. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u435	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say to my previous speaker that it is a privilege and privilege to organize premium brand events. If we are talking about the organisation of the European Games, then this is it. at the most, the task to be carried out, the task for which we have only 16 months to prepare, although the organisation of the games was granted to us in mid- 2019. We lost two and a half years. During this time nothing has been done, and this is also what President Musician said today. It has only been in the last few months that we have seen any action taken to stop this inaction, to fix it so that we can get out of this situation with a face in any way. And fortunately, in earlier years we have built in Małopolska a lot of sports facilities, which are also able to accept players and host the European Games in 2023. This bill, which was examined here in November and December Ub. Y., as it was said today at the committee meeting, it was a law completely toothless, a law in which there was absolutely nothing. Such a law could have been adopted in autumn 2019. But this law could also be adopted, taking into account the amendments of the Civic Coalition. We were just reporting in November, and the Senate was reporting exactly such amendments in December, it was about PLN 890 million. Meanwhile, what have Members and Members of the PIS done? You know, they turned it down because they said there was no need. Today, after 2 months, you come to this House with a proposal to increase the expenditure limit by PLN 800 million. This is not a surprise, this is something that was obvious also in the autumn of Ub. You're fixing a mistake because you don't really do anything else, you don't know how to do anything. You're wrong day after day. [[Applause]] Every day that comes brings us more mistakes that we later have to deal with in order to get out of the face situation in any way. I am convinced that despite this short time, local government officials will be able to take the glove and prepare Malopolska and Kraków for the European Games in 2023. And last but not least, one point. I regret that Marshal Kozłowski did not participate in these negotiations, that he gave his work on this act of fighting, that he did not ensure that the zlotys went to the whole region. Everything listed in this Act goes to Krakow, it is about PLN 500 million for investments. And yet the host cities are also Tarnów, Zakopane, Krynica. And where's the money for these communities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u437	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Mr Owl has already said, we are truly honored that you have taken our amendments into account. Too bad it took you three months to figure out that extra money was gonna be needed. It is also a pity that in the original talks you promised that these additional funds for Krakow would amount to PLN 1.5 billion, and at the moment it is coming out that it will be only PLN 0.5 billion. Well, it's better than nothing. However, I am concerned about these investments due to time. For if you have been investigating this law for 3 years, because already 3 years ago we knew that there would be games, and for 3 months you realize that our amendments were good, then this investment might be a problem. Also, the director of the CIS recently said that the preparation for the games at the moment is already gambling when it comes to sports investments. And what happens if they're not realized in time? What happens if, for example, The winter is gonna be rough, long, and something's gonna fall out? Will Kraków have to pay back the subsidies then? Where the inauguration will take place, if e.g. Anything late about Vistula Stadium? And why do we not know the specific amounts in the regulation for specific investments? One important point must also be highlighted: unfortunately, there has been no proper consultation on this issue. In its resolution, the City Council of Krakow requested specific investments. She didn't get any answers from you. The inhabitants were not asked whether they wanted the games, whether the games should be or not, or whether they wanted investments, unfortunately. This could have been done 2 years ago, it could have been done well, money could have been transferred much earlier, and the law could have been written so that possible investment procedures would actually be subject to an accelerated path of procedure. You can do it, like with a wall on the border, and unfortunately this path is accelerated minimally. However, the worst part is that, as we know, Minister Sasin is on the case. We know that he dealt with the issues of envelope elections, Warsaw metropolis, energy, power cuts and everything ended the same way. When I combine Prime Minister Sasin's thoughts with the Olympic Games, with the Olympics in Krakow, I fear that unfortunately it can come out of all this sasinada. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u439	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Several months before the games, we receive a law that concerns their financing. One would like to say: finally, although it is far too late. But let's face it, you've been busy at that time. You have already signed letters of intent three times, organized a lot of press conferences, set up several organisational bodies at different levels: local government and government, and Krakow's authorities, President Majchrowski, have repeatedly translated the final deadlines for the presentation of government guarantees. At the same time, no one in Krakow decided to ask the residents whether they wanted such events at all. During this time, no one has presented the exact budget, calculations or costs associated with the European Games. We're in this situation 15 months before the party, we know that we're definitely not gonna make one investment, and we're gonna have to hope, believe we're gonna make it. Let me remind you that a few weeks ago, the construction of a new canoe track was certain. Until a few months ago, the Olympic pool was to be built in Krakow, and this was also a message. If we move in such an area of certainty, it is no wonder that we have far less of the 1.5 billion we were to receive. So there is work on this law, the organisation of the European Games. I leave you to reflect on whether anything can be organized at all. There are arguments about the prestige of this event. Well, let's see, at least we do it all the time. Krakow did not have any competitors because no other city came forward because it did not want to bear this burden in Baku and Minsk. What's more, we don't know if there's gonna be any more editions because there's no queue of volunteers who are tearing this dubious honor out of their hands. This story shows that Krakow will get very promotional. This is also not true, because let's be honest: Krakow received a huge number of tourists in the pre-pandemic year. There are already voices that what Krakow has a problem with is too many tourists and shortcomings in the basic infrastructure. Stories about the fact that big sports events bring image or development gains to cities, have actually been disarmed a long time ago. There's no such thing as the Barcelona effect. We have seen a lot of cities, for years and years, who have been paying off debts arising from the organisation of large sporting events. It seems to me that a few months before the event, at a time when local governments raise a lot of doubts about whether the implementation of these investments and sports and infrastructure is real at all, we are in a situation where we should really step down and think about how we should develop and support municipalities in Małopolska, Małopolska, Kraków and other municipalities, which path of development for these towns to design, how to support residents, rather than playing an electoral event, because this de facto will become these games. It is necessary to invest in people and not in the European Olympic Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u441	Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland in relation to the report of the Joint Commission: Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, and the Local Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Act on support for preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. As in the debate on this specialty in December, so today I confirm my parliamentary club's support for these changes. I'm glad there's something specific about it. Of course, the voices about it being late are accurate, but it was late in December. Since I am a Member from Krakow and this area of activity in the Polish Parliament is close to me, I assure you that I was also interested and I know that both the local government and the local government of Małopolska did not sleep through this time. Perhaps the government lately presents these important documents for approval by the High Sejm. So that after today's discussion, also after the assurances of the President of the city of Krakow at the joint committee meeting, one can be calm that this event will be held in a dignified manner. I hope so, and here I will appeal to the rulers that this party will be ours together, and not actually, as your messenger said before me, before the election party. I hope that also Members who are criticising this today will be familiar with the expert scientific analysis of how such events are used to promote tourism, culture, state, regions and cities. I believe, unlike my previous speaker, that it is because of coincidence that this post-pandemic situation requires action by the state, regions and cities to propose a renewed opening of tourism. It is not true that today Cracow is working full-time in tourism, Mrs Cracow, today is 30% of what was before the pandemic. Therefore, I believe that 2023 is needed for a good promotion of the city, region and Poland, because it is known that Kraków is a brand that also supports the tourist position of the whole country very strongly. Of course, the question is how we're gonna do this, but that's what we're gonna evaluate, analyze during these two years of preparation, and then evaluate after this event. So that once again we support these changes and are pleased that there are finally concrete ones, which are also accepted by the local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u443	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, it's weird to see Members speaking from cars standing in a parking lot somewhere. It's kind of ridiculous, though. However, we should probably go back to sitting on a permanent basis, not to such things, because there should be some seriousness in our institution. Still, it doesn't look good. But okay, let's move on to this project. Poland, and precisely Kraków, was elected in 2019. As the rapporteur said, then there was a slight euphoria. Only that euphoria lasted two years. I know shorter euphorias, but at this point this euphoria should be a little shorter. In November 2021, after all, we received a project. I don't know if it's like we're getting a project, and you're telling us that everything's ready, everything's fine, and then, as usual, it turns out it's not okay. Turns out the project wasn't prepared, because three months later, we get an urgent project in this case. It's an urgent project, because naturally we need to change what we got, despite the assurances that everything was consulted at the time, that you talked to the local authorities, that this is the right project. Even though the opposition says it's not the case that it's making amendments, you say no, no, everything's fine. And then, in three months' time, these amendments that are being tabled are put into this bill at once. It's just a psychic act. Every time it happens, it's practically the same thing. It's 16 months to the games and we should be much further away. We should have solved a lot of things by now, but as you can see, we're... The point is that we have a problem with the relevant legislation at all, even though we are creating a bill specifically for one of the games. And you know what? The only comforting thing about this whole action is that your frivolous action on this bill is not really going to change much, because whether we prepare ourselves well for these games or not, these 3rd European Games do not have such prestige that practically anyone in the world will notice it. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u445	Thank you very much, sir. The list of speakers presenting the positions of clubs and circles will be completed by Mr Tomasz... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm still here.]] ...will end Mr Tomasz Zimoch... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me.]] ...representing the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government camp even puts propaganda into sport. Recently, one of the members of the governing camp stated that it is possible to win an Olympic medal and depends on what television station shows these games. It's so bullshit and so funny. The propaganda is also associated with the European Games in 2023, which are to take place in Krakow. According to the announcement of the governing camp, this is supposed to be a special event, but the European Games are not very sporting. On November 16th in this room, I asked us not to honk the fanfare in connection with the games, not to touch the propaganda departments. Three months ago in the Sejm there was a discussion in connection with the procedure for the special Olympic Act, and today, as a matter of urgency, the government is presenting amendments. 33 months ago, Kraków became the host of the games, and there is still no agreement signed with the European association of Olympic Committees. By the end of October Ub. Kraków was to receive government guarantees - he did not receive. For this, ladies and gentlemen, there are three letters of intent. In November we said that PLN 160 million was not enough for the organization. Those who observed, the governing camp regarded as opponents of sport, complaining opposition, malcontents, and today, after 3 months, the government asks for an amount of six times higher. These games are still a great unknown. If you really want to organize them, don't waste your time. More expertise, more sense, more good calculations, and much less propaganda, because there won't be anything to show even on this one, supposedly the only right TV for sport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u447	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join this list, this is the time. If not, I'm closing the list. Twelve people are saved for the questions. Question time - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. But he is a reliable Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the feast of Polish sport, as you can see from the hall: there are six Members from the PiS. The state represents the government. I'm sorry, I don't know. It should probably be the Minister, the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who, I understand, has been conducting the whole issue for three years. [[Applause]] On 22 June 2019 it was decided that we, Kraków, Małopolska and the Silesian Voivodeship will host the 3rd European Games. And we accepted it with such recognition, because as Poland we received it after Baku and Minsk. This euphoria lasted 30 months and as a sports sympathizer I am very glad that it did not end only with this euphoria. I would like to congratulate the government very warmly from this place. On the other hand, since Mr PiS has already been worried about the number of Polish medals in these games, I would like to ask the government when the agreement (the bell) will finally be signed with the city of Krakow and, on the other hand, with the association representing the organisers of the Olympic Games, i.e. the Olympic Association. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u449	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the infrastructure dimension of this investment. On 12 January, the Council of Ministers published a regulation in which we find an annex to the list of infrastructure investments. This list includes investments exclusively in the city of Krakow, which is so interesting that besides Krakow athletes will also host cities such as Tarnów, Krynica-Zdrój, Zakopane or Chorzów. Therefore, the question to government representatives: What are the reasons why these investments are only in Krakow? I don't want to be maliciously involved with Minister Adamczyk, the Minister of Infrastructure, and here I am looking for this reason, so I ask the question: What was the real reason for this (The Bell) that this allocation of funds is so one-sided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u451	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I've told most of them, but maybe once again I'll highlight these few questions to keep them answered. First of all, why did it take you so long? Secondly, why is there 0.5 billion instead of 1.5 billion? Thirdly, are you really convinced that these investments can be realised within 16 months? Until recently, Mr. ZIS director said that this is gambling with these sports investments, but they will have an impact on the event. What happens if we don't make the investments? Because there's no record of what's gonna happen to the grants or if Krakow has to return them if he doesn't have time. If the preparation of the Vistula Stadium were delayed, where would the inauguration take place? And why do we still not know the specific amounts for investment, since the regulation is and probably has already been discussed? That's it, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u453	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u454	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't do games during the war. In ancient times, war activities were stopped during the Olympics, but then there was civilization, not what it is now. Today, the barbarians of Russia are not going to hold back, except for these games. Nobody's gonna watch, because unfortunately everyone's gonna be busy with something else, and Putin's gonna do it. And one more argument against. A country with 10% inflation and the highest excess deaths in the world shouldn't play. For the last six years, it's been a real game of milking the state, so why don't you just skip this party in Krakow? I know that almost PLN 1 billion is Kurski eating for breakfast, but when it's wisely spent, this money can save thousands of lives. I think instead of the games. This amount should be allocated (the bell) to help victims of the war in Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Ukraine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u455	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u456	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, are the European Games very much needed? From the point of view of Krakow, investment needs I think that the inhabitants of Krakow can say: yes. This is important to them because there will be new facilities, new roads, new infrastructure. But indeed, ladies and gentlemen, when we leave the Sejm and ask the people of our country whether 800 million or 1 billion spent on the Games these are the most important investments at the moment, at a time of crazy cost, at a time of gigantic inflation, at a time when many residents, entrepreneurs need support and they don't get it... This is an example of a housing cooperative and many other places. And you have to answer the question of whether it will actually be the best money invested. Because it also has to be made clear whether this is a party that will make our country famous. There was this party, Euro 2012, great preparation, great grades. [[Highway A2.]] But in what company and after whom do we want to have this party? Baku and Minsk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Given the current international situation, it is really worth considering this seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u457	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This amendment of the Act gives an additional PLN 800 million for the Games. PLN 610 million will be available to the Minister responsible for. sport, and PLN 350 million at the disposal of the Minister responsible for. transport. This appropriation, as is apparent from the debate at today's committee meeting and your reply to Members, is intended primarily to cover road infrastructure and sport infrastructure. I would like to say that sport infrastructure is envisaged, ladies and gentlemen, among others. several cities and facilities to finance, not only Kraków. In view of the above, it is also important that where the games take place, there will be funding. I wanted to ask the Minister one thing, very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the beginning I said that if the Minister of Sport was to spend PLN 610 million from his own money, i.e. from the budget and from the funds, he would fail other important sports tasks related to the functioning of the Ministry. That's why I wanted to ask the Minister where the funds were coming from, the extra 800 million PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm thinking about two things. Firstly, someone organizes such a big party and does not make an estimate of expenses, because at the very beginning, when you organize events, events, they all balance costs and needs to achieve it properly. Two years of euphoria without estimates of spending is a bit much. Secondly, I wonder after listening to these voices, what would happen if we refused to hold the games today. That's what I'm talking to those who have doubts. Surely, then, the world or Europe would have heard of it. Today we can say that no one will come, no one will look at it, but there is no guarantee at all. And on the other hand, we don't wonder how it would be. They stopped today. It is also a little prestige of Poland, no matter who rules and when rules. We must all mobilize now and finish this work, and do this work. The most important thing is (The bell) that this money will be invested in the infrastructure to a large extent, it will definitely be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, will speak. [[But that's the rule of who was born.]] [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] I assure Mrs Skowronska that she will have her speaking moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The strongest arguments against this Olympics have already come to an end. Jachir's friend Rutnicki said so. Excuse my colleagues from Małopolska, I join their vote. On the other hand, if we are going to make this Olympics and pay, I ask what is the purpose of promoting a city that is a brand in itself. What is the purpose of having a party in the city, which is a brand in itself, in June, when there are so many tourists there that you can't push a needle? What is the goal of promoting a city that is in a group of 20, or maybe 30 cities in Europe that, before the pandemic, wanted to limit the arrival of tourists because there are so many people there? Gentlemen, you have a 40-million-dollar country, and you could really use that money in another area. Słupsk with Koszalin would quietly throw such a party and promote themselves, Gorzów Wielkopolski and Zielona Góra would quietly throw such a party and promote themselves, Warmia and Mazury would have a quietly such party and would have promoted themselves. In some strange way, money always goes from the middle of Poland to the south, never the other way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They don't go from the middle to the south.]] [[What about the Vistula Dig, sir?]] [[Voice from the room:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u464	It's south, too. [[Voice from the hall: It's south...]] That's south, too, yeah. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the political context, which now, in the face of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and given the previous places of the organization, is important and can be important from the point of view of the organization. I would simply like to ask whether the Ministry also draws attention to the current momentary trend that is developing, to the context of these games, given the decisions of the predecessors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u465	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u466	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The state in government benches! Unfortunately, I'm on the finance committee, I don't know you, but I'd like to ask you about 160 million at the beginning and 800 million now. Is that enough for you? When are you gonna come to the High House and say there's not enough money? I think that today you have heard a very sensible criticism that there is no project prepared, that the financial plan is poorly constructed. I am interested in why only Krakow. Why not Tarnów, why not Krynica, Zakopane, not Silesian Stadium? That's where you give the pennies, the money goes to Cracow. Wouldn't it be worthwhile to support other cities? I expect an answer to this question in writing. Also as Mielec's resident, I expect an answer. I mean, Mielec's waiting for backup, too, for the sports hall. That's where they're going and... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, well, well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...or 5 million or 10 million can't be got. [[Voice from the room: 40 km from Krakow.]] And Krakow gets it. Maybe it'd have to be even. Main question: Is 1 billion PLN enough for Krakow?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u467	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have learned from the opposition about new facts, new data. Namely, one of the Members said that all kinds of infrastructure investments in Poland are carried out in the south. I didn't know Vistula is in the south of Poland. I thought he was on the Coast, in the north of Poland. [[It's up north.]] On the other hand, the second Member said that the Euro 2012 was perfectly prepared. I recall the construction of the A2 motorway and the fall of thousands of Polish small entrepreneurs, their dramas and life tragedies. [[Now you'll see.]] You don't remember that. I am very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you are against our former capital, Krakow, and Małopolska, Silesia. 960 million PLN will be invested in sport infrastructure as well as road infrastructure. Minister, as far as I am aware of what investment this will be in the field of sport infrastructure (the bell), I ask you to provide information on what lies in the field of road infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u469	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. Mr Andrzej Śliwka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u470	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions, first of all I would like to say that we have discussed the potential amendment of this law several times, including in the Parliamentary Committee. This was not due to bad will, as the Members here suggest, but it is a natural consequence of the fact that the organisers of these games had to calculate their expenses. We had to establish these investments, estimate their value more or less and indicate the limits in the bill. One of your fellow Members pointed out, I am sorry that I do not remember that these amendments were tabled at the original bill. Of course, only an amendment concerning the amount of PLN 550 million - the limit was up to 160 - was simply taken by itself. [[But today there's 400 million for the organization too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u471	Can Mr Marek Sowa make it possible for the Minister to speak? Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: Thank you very much, Marshal. This had to be recalculated, estimated, because then it is possible to introduce appropriate limits. On the basis of the arrangements between the organisers, as well as the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of State Assets, we have prepared a draft amending act. Therefore, there is an amount which will cover the expenditure limit of up to PLN 960 million. 160 is already covered by the Act and this was due to the amount to be allocated under the special-purpose subsidy to the special-purpose company for the right to organise the games. The amount of PLN 250 million for the preparation and implementation of projects related to sport infrastructure, the amount of PLN 350 million for the preparation and implementation of projects related to road infrastructure, and the amount of PLN 200 million is a sort of fulfillment of the expectations, arrangements of the organizers and fulfilment of the provisions of the recently signed letter of intent in Krakow as part of the amount which will be allocated to the organisation of the games from the State Treasury budget. The Act also contains changes that enable the Minister responsible for transport, but also the Minister responsible for physical culture, in this case the Minister of Sport and the Minister of Infrastructure, to grant targeted grants for the preparation and implementation of the project, including target programmes, dedicated programmes, which will be carried out in the framework of the games by individual departments, together with the organisers. The detailed scope of investments is indicated in the Regulation. And now I come up against the questions you have asked. First of all, Mr Shopiński, who asked the question when the agreement will be signed. That's a question for the organizers. We encourage the organizers to sign this agreement as soon as possible, I am talking about the host city agreement. And among others. These activities, which are carried out by us, also meet what the organizers expect. That's one thing. Mr Suchoń, but not only Mr Suchoń, asked about the investment, for example. Mrs Skowrońska, who seems to have already left the room, asked about the investment, whether only for Krakow, why only Krakow is in this regulation. That's not true. There are also investments related to the athletic stadium in Chorzów, but also to other cities, Tarnow, Krynica. Furthermore, I would like to say that we, both with President Tarnow and representatives of the cities of Krynica and Zakopane, but also with the Marshal of the Voivodeship, Marshal Kozłowski, set this regulation in detail and it was accepted. I understand that Members in a certain political game must say certain things, but if we are to be honest and openly to tell ourselves what it was like, it was consulted with local governments at every stage. Every step of the way. And if you ask President Tarnow, Marshal Kozłowski, Mayors of Zakopane, Krynica, you can obtain clear information that they accepted this regulation and are satisfied with the arrangements between the government party and the organizers. Mr. Marshal! If I could, I'd like to finish this because there are a few more questions that need to be answered. Mr Mishalski asked another question. I don't think he's in the O.R. either. It is, I'm sorry, sir. He asked if 16 months was enough. We're voting for the organizers. Today at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, if you were - Mr Kiva and says that you were - you heard clearly from President Musician that this deadline is to be respected. In light of the above... I'm still sorry, I spoke to Marshal Kozłowski last week, who is the second organizer, who also stated that this term is possible to keep. [[Voice from the room: There is no investment there.]] In view of the above, if the Member asks whether the time limit for the investment will be respected, then in the assessment of the organisers, yes, it will be respected. Another question that came up during the debate and during the questions was Mr Tomaszewski's question, which I thank very much for his constructive approach. [[What a great rapporteur we have chosen.]] Yes, Mr Rutnicki is talking about the rapporteur. I can admit that every substantive approach to the problem is, of course, advisable when it comes to what Mr Tomaszewski said at the session of the Parliamentary Committee. We are not afraid of criticism, provided that this criticism is constructive. I must admit that, unfortunately, from some Members, this criticism was not constructive, it was more a political game, which I regret, because the theme of the games should unite Members, whether they are from Małopolska or Wielkopolska or Warmia and Mazury. That is why Mr Tomaszewski, who spoke very constructively, for which I thank you very much... But I am already answering this question because it is one of the key questions that you have asked, that is, why these funds, where the Minister of Sport's budget will be increased. We have information from the Ministry of Finance that these funds will be... Minister, we are going to conclude. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: I'm almost done, Marshal. From the reserve - pose. 56, i.e. from the system change reserve. As regards Mr Łącki's question - the last one, Mr Marshal - which I think has also left the plenary room. Why Krakow? That question is very simple. Because Kraków and Małopolska came forward. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much. But the room did not leave Marek Owl, who, as part of constructive criticism, would like to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to tell you that in November, when the bill was processed, and you were supposed to be working on this project at the Ministry of State Assets, you weren't there. The Ministry was represented by Mr. Rabenda, who had absolutely nothing to say. And it would be a good thing if you're saying today that there's no one here or criticizes someone, that you're working on a bill so you can get acquainted with the protocol. It's all written in there. The cost of the games - 400 million. This was said by President Krakow's proxy. The needs of the infrastructure city of Krakow - 500 million PLN. We've made these amendments. All of this had to be accepted at the time. Today we wouldn't have to debate this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u473	Thank you very much. He agrees with the Minister's assessment: Mr Tomaszewski is indeed an outstanding representative, an expert on the subject, and is particularly close to the folk sports teams. [[With a green heart.]] [[As rapporteur now. Not ad vocem, Marshal, but as rapporteur.]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u474	High Seym! Dear Minister, I want to engage with people who say that the third European Olympic Games in Krakow are a low prestige event. I don't know anything about tourism or anything else, but I'm gonna talk about the sports section. I had the honor of being at the Baku Games, at five other Olympic Games, I've seen a little. I must tell you and wish everyone in 2023 that they organize... Poland is one country and 11 Olympic qualifications, for the Olympic Games. As part of this event there are planned events of the European Championships in six sports, including the famous athletics at the stadium in Chorzów, where there will be these relay runs. This is the element of the sporting value of the games. Secondly, they will be the first in the European Union, on the assumption - it is true what the Members have said - that in Europe it will normally be that we will not have a pandemic. This event is another opportunity for promotion for our country, for Poland, because representatives of all 54 European Olympic Committees can come. Therefore, the whole Europe, this sporty one, this Olympic one, at that time may be in Krakow, in Małopolska. This is a matter, I think, very important from a sporting point of view. As far as costs are concerned, Minister, I am sorry, but let me say this: I do not really have the historical, from 2019 to today, with a certain finish - trust in the government side, but I have confidence in your Vice President and the Cracow government. Regardless, ladies and gentlemen, which party would represent, responsible on behalf of the Cracow government, said that it can be done that these proposed measures, 500 million, for sport and road infrastructure, are measures for which it was agreed jointly that... He only said one thing: he expects that in mid-March, this is such a deadline, all those government receipts, in short, fixing grants, signing... The point is to make it done, because if it doesn't, then it's gonna be very hard to do. We actually have, like, a big party, one... I wouldn't call it an accident. We have another proposal for a party. This is about classical canoeing. You can't do this track anywhere else. This may also serve to promote amateur canoeing in the future. There is no possibility to carry out all the competition of classical canoeing due to distance. But not all competitions must be conducted because the programme is largely proposed by the organiser of the games. The Minister has already partially responded to Mr Artur Łącki. I must tell you that the proposals concerning the organisation of large sporting events which the ICU or the European Olympic Committee grants, firstly, the cities, the regions, are submitting to the national Olympic Committee, to the Polish Olympic Committee. Besides, in Krakow more than 100 years ago... It was as a result of the celebration of the Polish Olympic Committee's jubilee that this thread of Krakow's agreement with the Olympic movement was established and activities related to the preparation of Krakow's candidacy for the organization, together with Małopolska, of these games began. Certainly close to us Gorzów and other cities, if they want to organize such a party, they can report to the National Olympic Committee and prepare such an offer together. Poznan tried several times, among others. in the case of a universe. It didn't work out. He lost to the competition. And I think it's a very strong resort, with a good sports base, etc. As far as the right to organise games is concerned, the first movement belongs to the right city, the right region. The State should support such measures, which it is now doing. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As the government wished (the bell), this law is urgent. In view of this, we will probably vote tomorrow. He'll go to the Senate, or he'll come back to us. On this basis, we hope that the two ministries will define, in sports language, and quickly sign contracts for the implementation of the projects which are annexed to the regulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 23 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, as the first Mr Robert Obaz, representative of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u476	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I believe that each of us, Members and Members, has received several, several dozen, several hundred information on the procedure for the draft legislation on internship pensions. Today in the Seym there are several such projects. Most of the people who are interested, criticize, stetha or unfortunately, the draft of President Andrzej Duda. There is also a civic project prepared by Solidarity, such a project was submitted by the Left, and the PSL has also prepared such a project. Unfortunately, they lie in a seym freezer and nothing has happened to them so far. Mrs. Marshal! We call for courage both to you and to Mrs Urszula Rusecka, who may, to her discretion, postpone this proposal at the committee meeting so that we can continue to process it in the Sejm. A lot of people are waiting for this project. Today, when we reach the right age, we can retire. For men, it's 65 years old. We've worked 20 years or 40 years, it doesn't matter. We acquire pension rights when we're over the right age. This is quite unfair from a legal point of view to those who work 35, 40 and 45 years of age and have not yet reached the age after which retirement is due. There are a lot of such people in Poland, because everyone who started schooling in the factory schools, those... Counting wages, working years start at the age of 15, that is, women who have actually worked in textile factories or in different types of factory schools, at the age of 50, could acquire pension rights. They worked really hard. Also, when it comes to men - railroaders, turners, locksmiths, who started school at factory schools, at the age of 55, they could retire. Therefore, once again, Mrs Marshal, Madam President, we are calling for you to start proceding these citizens' resolutions or presidential resolutions so that those who are expecting get those pensions as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u477	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Marek Rutka, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The COVID-19 Pandemic has been reaping a fatal harvest for two years, but its victims are not only those who have lost the fight against the deadly virus, but also victims who have not been helped in time. Each death is unimaginable pain, suffering, helplessness experienced by the whole family and loved ones. However, there is no greater tragedy for parents than the death of one's own child. According to the data of the Provincial Police Command in Gdańsk, over the last year as many as 294 teenagers and teens were forced into their own lives. Most young people did this by taking sleeping pills, psychotropic drugs, but also by self-harming or jumping from heights. The reasons for these desperate steps were different. The most common is mental illness or mental disorder, family misunderstandings or family violence. On the list of these reasons were also love competitions or problems at school. One day of October last year, on October 7, 2021, was particularly dramatic. Only that day in the Tczewski district, as many as eight girls tried to kill themselves. They're all self-inflicted. The reason for this desperate step was problems at school and conflicts with people outside the family. This type of suicide in suicidology is called a suicide act or Werter effect. At 294 suicide attempts in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, 212 were taken by girls. That's almost three times the suicide attempt by boys of the same age. In Poland, we have the least adult psychiatrists and children in the European Union per 100,000. residents. There are only 30 doctors in Pomerania. 30 doctors out of over 2,300 thousand. residents. Despite such a catastrophic situation last year, there were only two residences for psychiatry students in Pomeranian Voivodeship. The state has definitely failed, has put up a white flag. Fortunately, with the help of teenage patients came the local government of Pomeranian Voivodeship. In marshal hospitals since the middle of last year specialized environmental psychological and psychotherapeutic services for children and young people have been operating. The United Right pays much attention to ideological issues, which is the best example of which is lex Czarnek, but rather the worst possible cases and examples should be said. You spend your time and money on ideology issues, but you don't devote such time and attention to the future of young people (the Bell). A country that does not care about its citizens, especially children and young people, has no future. There is no future like you, the current authority that deals with ideology, and you don't care about people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u479	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For several months now, the ministers of the Law and Justice Club have encouraged the acquisition of the Abrams tanks. They emphasize that they are the best in the world and will now defend the eastern border of Poland, acting as a deterrent to a potential opponent. Last Friday Minister Mariusz Błaszczak stated, quote: This is an extremely important strengthening of our defence capabilities and one of the most important arms contracts in Poland's history. The problem is that the weapons package of the Polish Abrams tanks approved by the U.S. Department of State includes anti-tank ammunition that deviates from the one used by the U.S. Army. I don't think it's enough to have a powerful tank to scare the enemy away. We need proper, modern ammo. And here comes the hypocrisy of the politicians of the ruling party. Jarosław Wolski, monthly expertNew Military Technology, drew attention to the absurd decision of the Ministry. He notes that the missiles came from the late '80s. 20th century Importantly, in 2014, similar missiles were bought by the PO-PSL coalition government. At that time, the opposition pointed out that the missiles did not meet the requirements and would not stop any Russian tank. Eight years later, the PiS made almost a twin decision in a situation where there was a military threat. We buy ammunition with a 26-year-old pedigree, absolutely ineffective in the frontal combat against Russian machines with reactive armor ERA Contact-5 and Relikt. This means that even at a distance of 1 km purchased missiles will not penetrate the armor of Russian tanks. And that's not the only controversial decision. The U.S. Department of State spokesperson announced that the production of vehicles for Poland would start after the proposed sale was approved and the delivery was only expected for 2025. Minister Błaszczak misses the truth, claiming in October 2021 that the Abrams tanks will be placed in the equipment of the Polish Army already this year. In addition, equipment will be purchased outside the technical modernisation plan. The purchase will not be financed by the MON budget or on the basis of a speciality from the central budget, but by the issue of bonds. There will be no transfer of technology to Poland. It will only be a transfer of PLN 23 billion for the ocean, which will be taken from outside the MON budget, i.e. from taxpayers' money. Recently, MON buys military equipment, including tanks, without a tender, secretes the proceedings. Polish people and Poles do not know exactly what their money is spent on. We have a right to know. This festival of absurdity (the bell) and hypocrisy should end as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Now, please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u482	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, February 23rd, we celebrate the day of the fight against depression. It's a very symbolic day. The World Health Organization estimates that around 264 million people suffered from this disease worldwide in January 2020. The latest figures are already talking about 350 million, and this disease affects women more often. Some 1.5 million citizens may suffer from depression in Poland. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases diagnosed. This is probably related to a faster pace of life and to a disorder in the relationship between work and rest. A year ago, after the closure period, studies indicated that even a third of citizens noticed symptoms of depression that they had not experienced before the pandemic. Depression is sometimes called a civilizational disease. It's a serious condition that has different intensity. Depending on the severity, it may be mild, moderate or severe. A person with depression may be less likely to function at school, at work or in the family. The symptoms of depression may also be impaired by biological rhythm and sleeping problems. Untreated depression may lead to suicidal thoughts and attempts. Every year, about 800,000 suicides are committed. In the 15-29 age group, this is the second cause of death. Therefore, prevention should be used for any symptoms. According to Prof. Leszek Kołakowski, the basic prevention of depression is a few simple principles. First of all, friends, that's a good relationship. Second, a healthy dream. Third, a healthy move. Fourthly, enjoy yourself a little. Fifth, solve your problems. Sixth, be in a good relationship with yourself. Finally, after seven, use the method of small steps. I encourage you to remember these few simple rules and apply them. I would like to express my support to all those who suffer from depression on this particular day. At the same time, I appeal to the government for a systematic approach to the topic of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of depression, which in Poland is becoming increasingly common and affects many of our citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Along with the partitions of the Republic of Poland began for the Greek Catholic Church a time of great persecution. The Russian Empire included the Kiev archipelago and the eparchie: Pińska, Lucka, Włodzimierska, Polocka and the part of Lviv and Chełmska. As part of the repression of the Tsaryc Katarzyna II destroyed the Unichi eparchie and confiscated their assets except for the Archbishopship of Połock. After the fall of the November Uprising in the Russian Empire, the final liquidation of the Union began. It was first vanquished in 1839 and the Greek Catholic Church could only exist in the Kingdom of Poland in Chełmszczyzna and Podlasie, but also here in 1875 it was brutally wound up in repression after the fall of the January Uprising, which the Greek Catholics supported. In addition, the carat perceived the existence of the union as a religious setback. He ordered Orthodox admission. The taking over of the Unichi parish was often carried out by military and police forces. The resistors were murdered or sent to Siberia. Some of the faithful still, though hidden, participated in the religious life of the Catholic community. The unicki church went down to the catacombs. The brutal treatment of the inhabitants of Podlasie contributed to their closeness with the Latin rite and the Kingdom of Poland. First of all, they resisted the inhabitants of villages and small towns, who ceremonially manifested their connection with the universal Church. According to the Department of Religions after the 1905 Tolerant Penalty. The Greek Catholic church in Russia still could not work. The Russian authorities, in order to counter the mass exodus of Orthodox origin, issue on 18 August 1905 a circular introducing a complicated procedure for the transition to Catholicism. The changes made have significantly increased the costs associated with official fees. These provisions appear not to have been strictly complied with. The Unites supported the Catholic clergy. For this purpose also the Jesuits from Galicia, as well as the landowners, came here. In order to support the Unities, the Liga Poland has set up a Committee for the Defence of the Former Unities. This is all I am talking about today because of the actions that the Kremlin is taking, accusing Ukraine of not having its own identity and history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u485	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Load - we will probably come back to this topic for a very, very long time. One of the provisions of the new law that negatively affects taxpayers is that health contributions cannot be deducted from the tax. I mean, first of all, entrepreneurs. Another record states that the health contribution is paid on the income and the amount of the contribution in the case of entrepreneurs is affected not only by the remuneration or income from the work carried out, but also by all income invoices, i.e. from the sale of fixed assets: computer, car or real estate. This is done under very unfavourable conditions for the trader, since the funds purchased for the purpose of carrying out the business do not constitute a basis for obtaining revenue. Therefore, questions arise. Today we talk a lot about health care, problems, huge problems. I wonder what kind of key, what reasoning the legislator was based on, finding that anyone who gets income from sales, e.g. cars, or individuals in this case, will have to pay the health insurance premium, and why this amount of health contributions is also dependent on the sale of property and not only on the work performed. And now the question is: How will these revenues really translate into health care? Will these increased cash receipts be reflected in the quality of health care services? Because you don't talk about it at all. Hospitals, individual troops begging, asking for help. Outermost hospitals such as: In Gołdapi, they're closed. The nearest one is 30 km just any way. The residents are asking for help, they're begging for help. At least they're asking for an ambulance. Of course, they've been getting ambulances recently from the Minister of Health and from the senator, but only those local authorities that are friendly and at the discretion of the Minister. How can we prevent this situation? Our eastern part of the country is isolation, that's fearing war, that's refugees, that's a lack of work, and now there's no health care. Imagine the situation of parents who have a sick child and to the nearest medical unit is 30 km when in the case of young children the disease develops very, very quickly. What can we do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u487	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u488	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In view of the upcoming National Day of Remembrance, I would like to inform you that in the parish of St. Maciej in Andrychów as every year there will be a celebration of this holiday. On Sunday, February 27, Holy Mass will be celebrated. for all those fighting for independent Poland, after which numerous delegations of social, political, ecclesiastical and local organizations will lay flowers and light candles under the plaque commemorating the solid soldiers, which is located on the so-called. Andrich's golf beside the church. Later, delegations will pay their due honor and homage to the heroes of the nearby mural. Some participants continue this ceremony, moving to the cemetery to the nearby Rzyk, where in September 2020 the remains of the guerrilla branch commander Mieczysław Kozłowski was buried in the military aide at the Rakowicki cemetery. A frog and a mutt. I would like to point out that the Andrychow celebration will only be one of many patriotic celebrations organized in this parish during the year. They are attended by combatants, representatives of local authorities, representatives of the Sejm and Senate, and most importantly, young people concentrated in the shooting and scouts. Ceremony and uplift are celebrated, among others. 3 May, 11 November, but also the anniversaries of the signing of the August agreements and the establishment of the NSZZ ̄Solidarity. This meeting is also an opportunity to remind you of the beginning of World War II and its victims. Each year the anniversary of the Smolensk disaster is also celebrated, which is reminiscent of another plaque placed on Andrychów's Golf, solemnly unveiled and dedicated a year after this tragedy. Masses are also celebrated annually. For the sake of the country, on the anniversary of the martyrdom of Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. George Popieluszko and the anniversary of the martial law. It is worth adding that these celebrations have a rich musical and plastic frame. They are enriched by a specially prepared sermon devoted to the history and problems of today's day in our homeland and occasional exhibitions referring thematically to the current holiday prepared in cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance. But the fact that all these events are organized by the parish of St. Maciej in Andrychów (The Bell) and her parish priest Fr. Washing. Stanisław Czernik and a group of people who have been involved in promoting patriotism for many years. Therefore, I would like to thank the priest and everyone involved in the upbringing of young people and commemorate the most important moments of our history from this place, from the speaker of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u489	Thank you very much, sir. The statement will now be made by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The most bloody day of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict has passed. Russia is increasingly reaching for Ukraine, destroying Europe's order at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries. Only the European Union's clear and firm sanctions against Russia can stop this criminal assault, and this is not just a temporary suspension of Nord Stream 2. We should show support and solidarity for Ukraine as Poles and Europeans. This also applies to the internal relations of the EU countries. The diplomatic failure of the Polish opposition is to call on the EU institutions to block funds for Poland in a situation where Poland can be on the front line of the Third World War in a moment. I would like to remind you of the words of sleep. Lech Kaczyński during the Russian-Georgian war: Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and later maybe also time for my country, for Poland. Let us be courageous and united. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u491	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left. He's temporarily absent. Therefore, Mrs Anna Pieczarek, the Law and Justice will take the floor. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are an MEP.]] As the honourable Member has moved towards the speaker, we will not stop her because Mr Tomaszewski, apart from having many other advantages, is also a gentleman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki very warmly for giving huge money to local governments as part of the first edition of the government fund of Poland Ład. The municipalities and districts in my Tarnów district received a total of almost PLN 460 million. So much money for investments the local governments have never gotten before. Thanks to government funds in the Tarnów region, among others. The road will improve, as well as safety with them, because new walkways and bike paths will be built. Children will gain friendly nursery and kindergarten. Educational, cultural, sports and recreational infrastructure will be developed. The less affluent municipalities will finally be able to accelerate strongly with the extension of the water supply and sewerage network. For years, the current water supply has been waiting for residents from many towns away from the larger urban centres, especially from mountainous areas. There is often a drying out of home wells and lack of water is a huge problem. If it weren't for money from the Polish Government, it wouldn't be possible to connect so many properties to the water in such a short time. Besides, the projects that will be carried out through government funds in my constituency will be of different character, e.g. Tarnów city in the area of closed swimming pool in Mościce industrial district will organize a water park and build an ice rink. This task received PLN 25 million. In Wierzchosławice, the local government of Tarnowski County will open a professional activation facility. People with disabilities from the Tarnów region will find employment in it. The municipality of Warnicz will begin the renovation of the historic palace of Dębski. For years he stood and destroyed because there wasn't enough money to renovate. In the future, this facility is to be a cultural and conference centre. The historic building in Košice Mały will also be adapted to the needs of the museum and cultural facilities. The dream of the people of Schynwald and the Świebodzin will come true about the real sports hall. For these investments the municipality of Skrzyszów and Plesna received PLN 10 million each. On the other hand, the municipality of Ryżadowice will start searching for shots of medicinal waters, which may increase the tourist attractiveness of the Pógórze Ryżowicki. Once again, I thank the Prime Minister, the entire Council of Ministers and all those who have developed and worked on the first edition of the Polish Government for local governments. I also do this on behalf of many representatives of local authorities from Tarnów land who have asked me to do so. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u493	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At the 44th meeting of the Sejm, the first reading of the citizens' draft law on amending the Act on Pensions and amending certain other laws, the aim of which is to introduce the so-called. internship pensions. These are the ladies who have worked and paid contributions to the Social Security Office for 35 years, and the ladies who have worked and paid contributions to the Social Security Office for at least 40 years at the time. This applies to a group of about 0.5 million people who are very often ill today and would like to have the opportunity, I stress: to be able to benefit from a pension. Everyone knows that if you receive pension benefits from the accumulated capital for a longer period than under normal conditions after reaching the retirement age, the benefit will be lower because it will be paid for a longer period of time. These people still believe in a democratic state, a rule of law, whose representatives, together with President Andrzej Duda, promised voters such solutions. This also applies to the government side. Two weeks ago, this law was assigned to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. It is worth mentioning that in the marshal's staff there are also other projects of other clubs, including the left club, in this case. Interested people are e-mailing us, calling us, asking us to start these jobs. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I asked the president when she intended to put this item on the agenda. She replied that she was considering all the projects according to the order in which the project was received, waiting for different opinions and making decisions, but for now she does not know when it will be considered. And people say this: Don't underestimate our nearly half-million-dollar group, which, on the basis of the ethos of legal, honest work, has already managed to put money in our ZUS accounts to provide us with decent benefits. It is we who have created a great 10-million-dollar solidarity movement and we are building the foundations of a democratic state to which we want to continue to trust. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we ask you to start working on this bill. Tomorrow, our club will be directed by the members of the committee for the Left to send a letter to the president to begin this work. We're hoping they'll start. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u495	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On February 14, 2022, we celebrated the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the Home Army, which was created as a result of the transformation of the Armed Forces to the Home Army. The National Army is the armed forces of the Polish Underground State. One must remember the unique attitude of soldiers who had to quickly learn to fight in conspiracy, day and night remembering that even without weapons, without an eagle on a hat, without a soldier's uniform you are on duty and even the most difficult intelligence, defense or organizational tasks must be done. They performed them with great care and extraordinary courage, bravo and responsible. Who didn't go to the fight for Warsaw, who collected materials about the Germans' criminal activities in concentration camps, about the removal of Polish children from eastern Poland, who reflected prisoners, who finally stayed in forest camps and gave their lives behind the conquered homeland? No army of the world has ever been paid such a price for heroism, for crazy courage and sacrifice, like the National Army. The end of the war for the soldiers of the Home Army meant Catholic, long-term prisons, disdaining their dignity of trials, sufferings and rests in nameless pits of death. Even today, their good name is being taunted by unsubstantiated accusations, taking away their streets or their memorial sites. He could say a lot about it, but he's not the only one. National Army - this unique name sounds proud. However, many of us have sad reflections, there is some particular fear for truth, for memory, for historical facts changed today to order those who have not settled with our nation robbed of spiritual and material goods. Charles Wojtyla spoke, and I quote that fear is the beginning of wisdom, is the space that greatness is measured, and that love turns fear into maturity - the end of the quote. His words are beautiful and show us today the way in which he thinks and acts. First of all, today is such a time that fear must be forged into maturity. Otherwise, as Żeromski said, I quote, ravens will peck us out, crows will eat us, idiots will eat us, ashes will be left - the end of the quote. Secondly, there is no time to expect the great people of this world to notice our willingness to help, to act, to sacrifice. The greats of this world have their interests, we have our ideals. They count what they gain, we run to serve, to offer what we can. Thirdly, history is the teacher of life (the bell), so let's start with the multiplication plate. It's the easiest way to count profits and losses. A prerequisite is to take care of your place on earth, your nation, your heroes, your history, religion, culture, language and truth. There is no more beautiful oath than the one which, on the banner, on the eagle in the crown and on the cross, was made by soldiers of the Home Army. There is no doubt that this oath was kept, that God, honor, homeland was sacred to them and life in truth. They deserve to be remembered and respected. Hello and praise the heroes! Traitors of their homeland in all times disgrace and shame! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u497	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Regulation of the Minister for Health of 23 March 2021, as amended, amending the Regulation amending the general terms and conditions of health care contracts, is important for the functioning of national psychiatry as an important area of mono-specialist medicine. This Regulation, in view of the financial collapse of this area of health protection, introduced in § Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Annex to the Regulation as amended by paragraph 1, the wording which allowed certain hospitals to operate on the basis of the so-called. the lump sum mechanism, i.e. 1/12, until 31 December 2021. Financial and epidemiological data, currently obtained from three psychiatric hospitals of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, have shown the impact of epidemics on the decline in the number of people willing to treat, in situations where special psychiatric hospitals of COVID were not established, and treatment was carried out in public hospitals. These data indicate patient deficiencies that are due to fear of being treated by healthy patients at the same site as COVID patients. In January 2022 alone, the institution of psychiatric hospitals in Warmia and Mazury ranged from 71% to 73% of the state of these units. Why is losing patients to hospitals so important? Because it translates into a contract with the National Health Fund. Hospitals have had huge restrictions on the provision of benefits. This has to do with coronavirus infections both among patients and among staff. The number of COVID patients was 288 and the number of COVID patients was 128. This situation caused the patient's admissions to be blocked and the inability to function normally. Smaller beds in psychiatric hospitals and confirmed infections directly affect the poor financial performance of hospitals. The total financial result in January 2022 in three psychiatric hospitals in Warmia and Mazury is over 1.5 million losses. During this period, psychiatric hospitals in Warmia and Mazury worked, on the one hand, in an increased cost mode, which could not cover the contract with the National Health Fund and, on the other hand, in a situation of reduction of health benefits, which translated into a negative financial result of each unit. Those hospital losses can't make up for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If no specific remedial measures are put in place, they will only increase by the end of 2022. As a short-term solution to this pressing problem, hospital directors propose to restore a lump sum, as was the case until the end of December 2021. It is about introducing it by 31 December 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The eyes of the free world are now on Ukraine. The Russian Federation, led by a devoid leader, invaded an independent country. Ukraine suffers the consequences of patriotism and Western aspirations, the fact that it wants to be part of a world where people are free, the media are free, where true democracy prevails. In many cities in Poland, among others. in Silesia, there are demonstrations of solidarity with Ukraine. Such an event took place also in Rybnik. We have been manifesting not only because we believe in a united Europe and that Ukraine can and should be part of it, but also because Ukrainians and Ukrainians are people who have lived among us for years, enriching our community. For 4 years the project has been in operation in Rybnik 28. A district that brings together foreigners, mainly from Ukraine, helping them on a daily basis. Inventor 28. The neighborhood is a wonderful man who should be a role model for each and every one of us, Rybnicki councilman Mariusz Wiśniewski. The 17th Association, which launched the project 28. The area was aimed not only at helping migrants learn the language, facilitating access to medical services or helping to find a place in the labour market, but also at bringing our culture closer to them and initiating intercultural dialogue at regional level. Therefore, each year they are organized e.g. Ukrainian days in Rybnik. Last Saturday, February 19th, together with the people who participated in bloody Majdan 8 years ago, we mentioned the anniversary of these events. Rybnik consists of 27 districts inhabited by more than 137 thousand. people, hence the idea for the name of the project: 28. It's a neighborhood. Migrants from Ukraine could create an additional district in Rybnik, because according to the 2018 ZUS data of living and working people of Ukrainian origin in our city was already 6489. Now, despite the pandemic, these data are only growing. Their growth in recent weeks is linked to more intensive Russia's efforts. There are more families coming to Rybnik looking for a safe life. This meant that the manifestation of solidarity with Ukraine was a manifestation of support for our neighbours - not only those from abroad, but also those living in our immediate surroundings who have families in Ukraine's territory. These manifestations, as well as the real daily help, make a great deal of sense. It's not my opinion, but the voices of Ukrainians and Ukrainians who know they can count on us. Ivanka on the fish market said: The only good that comes from the east is the sun. This Swedish proverb is extremely appropriate in the face of the aggression of the Russian Federation against the independent Ukrainian state. Let's remember that. Let us not be indifferent to what threatens our neighbors. All those who are now joining important alliances, including the European Union, I encourage you to pay attention to Ukraine. There are people living there who may have to shed their own blood, the blood of their families for the values that lead Western Europe. Let us learn to appreciate what we have, and let us open the door to our sisters and brothers from Ukraine. Today there is a new frontier between Western civilization and Eastern aggressors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u501	Thank you very much, sir. The statement will now be made by Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u502	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Last Tuesday, 15 February, despite the remote teaching in schools and the flares associated with the pandemic after a year's break, the seventh Gorlicka Patriotic Song Contest was held for the seventh time. I would like to stress that this event received the honorary patronage of the Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The acquisition of a patronage for our initiative is an honor for me and co-organizers, which were: the Gorlice School of Music Complex in Gorlice, the Gorlické Cultural Centre, the Karpackie Border Guard Branch in Nowy Sącz, the Institute of National Remembrance Branch in Krakow, the First Degree Music School in Bobby, the Association of Our City in Gorlice, and Tomasz Plak president of the Council of Law and Justice Club in the Council of the Gorlice District. The honorary patronage of the Marshal of the Polish Sejm significantly raised the rank and importance of the VII Gorlice Patriotic Song Competition. For this I express my great gratitude to Marshal Elizabeth Witek. This year's competition was attended by children and young people from primary and secondary schools from Gorlicki, Nowy Sącz County, Limanowski County and Nowy Sącz City. The aim of this competition is to promote knowledge of the history of our homeland, to promote knowledge of the text of the national anthem and other most important patriotic songs and to promote young musical talents. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All winners of the VII Gorlicka Patriotic Song Competition are mentioned on my website: www.barbarbarbartus.pl. There's not enough time for me to name everyone here, but at least I wanted to name those who took first place. And so in the category: soloists, primary school students from I to IV the first place was cast ex aequo by Teresa Kutek from the primary school. Jan Kochanowski in Świdnik, who performed the second and third verse of Mazurka Dąbrowski and as a chosen song performed ¿Is war for girls? ¿. The first place was also awarded to Natalia Step from the primary school in Koniuszowa, which performed the first and second verse of God, something from Poland and the work of White Roses. Piotr Duda from Kobylanka Elementary School took second place in this category, performing the third and fourth verse drawn from God, something from Poland, and as a selected piece from the White Cross, telling the story of nameless members of the Polish underground. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The third place was taken by Julia Klimek from the primary school. Jan Kochanowski in Świdnik, who made the first and second verse of the First Brigade, and as the selected song, there are forests. In the category: soloists, students of the V-VIII classes took first place Victoria Ziobrowska from the School-Preschool Team in Mszance, who performed the first and second verse of our anthem and as a selected song - crazy woman. The third place was also awarded ex aequo: Julia Białkowska from the Primary School. Jan Kochanowski in Świdnik, who performed as the chosen piece Grey uniform, and Oliwia Dobosz from the Primary School. St. Kingi in Maciejowa, she as the chosen song performed a song entitled: What is independence? As regards soloists from secondary schools, no first or third place was awarded, and King Ivan from the Elite High School of General Education took second place ex aequo. Jan Sobieski in Nowy Sącz and Natalia Gogola from the General Education High School. Stanisław Wyspiański in Biecz. Natalia performed a song by Alunia. As far as the teams are concerned, the first place was taken by the unrivalled family book team from the primary school in the Queen of Poland, and the second place was taken by the Mali Partizanci team from the primary school. Jan Kochanowski in Świdnik. There is also a distinction, which I would like to pay close attention to, because they received the band Their Three, although there were not three of them, there were many more people, from the Special School and Education Center in Kobylanka. The children and young people from this school performed beautifully from memory, sang by Mazurka Dąbrowski and the song 'Polish flowers'. Dear Marshal, Thank you very much for the extension of time, but at the end of the day I wanted to congratulate all the winners, all the participants. I sincerely thank them for taking part in this, that they wanted to prepare and learn and that they wanted to come to Gorlice. I would also like to thank all the carers most sincerely for their efforts to prepare the students, because we know that they were not at school, they were teaching remotely, but they did it, they submitted their students to the competition, they came and presented themselves beautifully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u503	Thank you very much. We also join in congratulating young people who cultivate patriotic traditions so beautifully. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the inhabitants of the Żywiec district and in the interest of guaranteeing their health safety, I once again draw attention to the tragic financial situation of the hospital in Żywiec. Unfortunately, this facility is on the brink of collapse. This dramatic state is due to the reform implemented by the Government of the United Right, so-called. a network of hospitals and a fatal calculation of lump sums. As a result, the financial situation of the hospital in Żywiec became the worst in the entire Silesian Voivodeship. The flat rate conversion per inhabitant of the Żywiec district in 2021 was only about 205 PLN. Surrounding hospitals, even though they are smaller, have much better funding, even exceeding 500 PLN. Another problem facing the Żywiecki hospital is that there are no contracts for a wider range of benefits, such as neurology or vascular surgery, not to mention underfunding of cardiology or pediatrics. In the latter case, despite the huge number of minor patients, the institution received information from the National Health Fund about the need to reimburse more than PLN 1 million from the funds for paediatric treatment. This is the result of changes to the rules since 2021, when the National Health Fund no longer settles with hospitals on a lump sum basis, but only covers the cost of treating specific patients. Unfortunately, this keeps making the poor situation of the facility worse all the time. Further negligence by the current government towards the institution is the need to introduce newer statutory wage obligations for hospitals, without a top-down security of funds for this purpose. And since last year, we have had drastic increases in prices for electricity, gas, water, waste water and garbage, not to mention drugs and the increase in minimum wage. All these problems in the hospital in Żywiec I am signaling to you on an ongoing basis. I've done dozens of interpellations, I've had a lot of conversations. Optimism took place in the second half of 2020 after talks with the then Minister of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, who declared aid, conversion and increase of the lump sum. Unfortunately, soon after, as officially stated, she resigned as Vice Minister, and there was still no more money for the Living One. Further carelessness from the PiS government (the bell), the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund may cause that if radical steps are not taken to support this facility, there may be a situation in which the provision of some of the medical services, or even the worst of all, will be interrupted to close the hospital in Żywiec. Minister Niedzielski! When will you finally take effective action to finance the district hospital in Żywiec? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u505	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u506	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, The integration of Bydgoszcz into the core network of the trans-European transport network under the TEN-T programme is an opportunity to accelerate the economic and social development of our city and the whole Bydgoszcz functional area. Bydgoszcz logistics node already plays a strategic role in the European corridor connecting the Baltic Sea with the Adriatic and in the network of northern and western Poland connections with the Via Carpatia corridor, but its status in the TEN-T programme is insufficient. Analysis of the development options of the intermodal terminal Bydgoszcz-Emilianowo leads to the conclusion that by 2030 it will operate over 1100 thousand. t transhipments. Therefore, it is appropriate to verify the TEN-T core network, including both Bydgoszcz and Bydgoszcz-related railway routes in this core network. As we know, the European Commission is aware of the shortcomings and shortcomings of existing transport projects, which is why on 14 December the European Commission is aware of the shortcomings and shortcomings of existing transport projects. It announced the need to verify this network. In order to make full use of these opportunities for Poland and Bydgoszcz, I ask the Prime Minister to supervise the activities of the Ministry of Infrastructure in relation to this verification and to make sure that it takes place with actual and not only verbal protection of Polish interests. I have addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure an interpellation in which the following questions are key. First: What action has the government taken to integrate the railways and logistics hub of Bydgoszcz into the core network of the trans-European transport network? Second: Has this proposal been addressed by the government to the European Commission and is the Commission's response to this speech known? Together with the local government of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and Bydgoszcz residents, we are waiting for the Prime Minister to act, and we are waiting for the Minister to act on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left, closes the list of Members of the statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I will read the appeal addressed primarily to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. The appeal is headed by inter alia. Psara County Council. The Council of the Municipality of Psara expresses its concern about the changes in education law that the Ministry of Education and Science has undertaken. These changes threaten the quality of school work, the stability and independence of teaching and education. If introduced, the school will lose its autonomy and be completely subject to central authority. The planned changes will significantly and negatively affect the situation of pupils and employees of educational units. We do not agree with the limitation of the right to influence the school's programme offer and the strengthening of the role of school curators, which will result in the loss of independence and autonomy by schools and kindergartens. The proposed changes will allow the probation officer to cancel the head of the public office within 14 days. The director will not be able to appeal against the decision when he is dismissed from his duties. The Director's failure to make audit recommendations by the curator's representative is sufficient for cancellation. The standards of probation control and the criteria for assessing the Director's work are unknown. There is a serious concern that the probationary checks will be completely discretionary, whereas the directors of the educational and educational programme will be severely punished, not with the ideological interpretation of the management of the education department. Please make the only right, right decision on the lex Czarnek law. I think it will be rejected by your president. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-23-sejm-49-1.u509	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 24 February 2022, at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 24]]
