ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula, i.e. we will sit traditionally and online. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the vote: in the voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its forty-ninth meeting on 24 February 2022, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, as well as part of the Senate's amendments: to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on the Extraction of Certain Cosmines; to the Act on the Support of Households in the Cost of Changing the Standard for Digital Television. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-fifth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points four, fifth and sixth of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Senator Piecha.]] Senator Piech?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u2	I have a proposal to introduce a law on amending the Energy Law on the agenda as well. We were investigating it yesterday at the Economics Committee meeting and it didn't cause any controversy, they were all in favour, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u3	Mr. Senator, they'll be filling in in in a minute. At the senior convention meeting... [[They will, won't they?]] ...was talking about it. [[Okay, thank you.]] The letter from Minister Naimski was received at the last minute, but... we are about to move on to this stage. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution on Ukraine's European aspirations and consider it as point one; second reading of the draft resolution on the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki and consider it as point two, the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency and consider it as point four; the Act amending the Law on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and certain other laws and consider it as point nine. And there's a motion from the senator to review the Energy Law Act. I understand you're filing a motion like that. If I do not hear an objection, I will consider that the High House has also accepted this proposal and we will put this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. However, I should like to inform you that the agenda may still be supplemented in connection with the continuation of the work of the Sejm and the declaration that all issues relating to the war and security of the Republic of Poland will have priority. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland's 10th term of office. But I would like to inform you that, following the preparation of reports on the draft law on the non-punishment of volunteers defending Ukraine's freedom and independence and on the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, the agenda may be extended to include items on the examination of these projects. Following the adoption by the Sejm of a law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens and their families in connection with the armed conflict within that State and the preparation by the Senate committees of reports on this matter, the agenda may be supplemented by a point on the examination of that law. I would like to inform you that the votes on the first, second and third paragraphs, i.e. the commemorative resolutions, will be held immediately after the examination of each of these points. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, a half-hour break will be announced today at 12.00 for the opening of the exhibition Felix Cassubia. Gdansk here, to Roztocza bears! Tomorrow, however, the break will be announced from 11.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. I would also like to remind you that, together with Marshal Witek, we invite you to the solemn assembly of Members and Senators on the occasion of the anniversary of joining NATO, scheduled for Friday at 4 p.m. And I strongly encourage you and the senators to participate in this solemn event. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the European aspirations of Ukraine. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No.651. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Mr. Marshal Michał Kaminski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Tonight there were sirens again over Ukrainian cities, Russian bombs fell again on Ukrainian cities and towns, and innocent civilians died again. The only reason why citizens of neighbouring Ukraine are treated in such a beastly way today are the European aspirations of this country. The only reason Russian imperialism so brutally reaches Ukraine today is because of the Ukrainians' will to live as they wish, not as Moscow dictates. And this solidarity, which I hope today, our fellow countrymen and our sisters and our Ukrainian brothers, this solidarity which we see today in our House and which we see in all Poland, so friendly and lovingly accepting today, like a country long and wide, war refugees from Ukraine, this solidarity is deeply rooted not only in the common Christian values, in the love of our neighbor who commands us, Poles, to do what we do, but also in our history. After all, we remember that only 100 years ago, Józef Piłsudski and Poland stopped the Bolshevik storm near Warsaw, exactly as the Ukrainians today stop the Putinian storm near Kiev. And when today we see how different Ukrainians die on the fronts, how different Ukrainians die under bombs, we remember Katyn, where very different Poles, different religions, different political views were shot in the head by a Russian invader only because they were loyal citizens of the Lightest Republic. And just as Stalin couldn't stand our Polish freedom, so today Putin can't stand Ukrainian freedom. And that is why today there is not in this room and there are no supporters of any political party or any other ideology in Poland. Today, as citizens of the Republic of Poland, we all say to our Ukrainian brothers and sisters: we are with you, we support your European ambitions, because we ourselves are in Europe and that makes us richer and safer. And today we do not look at the Polish President, nor at the Polish Prime Minister, nor at the Polish Marshal of the Sejm, nor at the Polish Marshal of the Senate, nor at our former prime ministers or former presidents, nor at our city presidents as representatives of this or other political party, because they all say the same thing, they call for the same solidarity of the West with Ukraine. And today the Senate of the Republic of Poland also calls for this solidarity of the West with Ukraine. Let us remember that this institution has the right to speak about Polish-Ukrainian relations, because it is the Senate who takes care of Poles all over the world. And Poles in Ukraine are many, we think of them especially warm today. We greet the parishioners from Kharkov, who must be in the shelter for another day, must protect themselves from Russian bombs. We greet Poles in Odessa, all over Ukraine. And as Senate of the Republic of Poland we have the right to speak about Polish-Ukrainian relations also because we are an institution whose history dates back to the time when we were one Republic with our Ukrainian brothers. It was in the Senate that an outstanding Ukrainian politician and Polish state activist, Kiev Voivode Kisiel, the Moskala Slayer, sat. And today it will commemorate this tradition, that Poland and Ukraine are in Europe, we call on the countries of the West to respond to the will of the Ukrainian people, who for the second time in 10 years have been occupied with the blood of the Ukrainians, on their will to be in Europe. On the cinematical edge of our team from Ukrainy from the dwist of the shostaw of the ridge the day of the national poet Ukrainskoho Taras Hryhorovich Shevchenko. And quote: * Boritesia * * poborete * You Boh pomahaje The truth for you, the glory for you. And the will of the world. Fame of the Ukrainians! The fame of the Polish people! Long live Poland! Long live Ukraine! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u5	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has put his voice in the minutes. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the European aspirations of Ukraine. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the European aspirations of Ukraine. I inform you that we will hand this document over to the Ukrainian ambassador, Mr. Despyca. We will do it as soon as possible, perhaps today, although, as we all know, there is a lot going on and everyone has a lot of responsibilities. We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 647. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Paweł Arndt, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to thank you for your decision to include this item on the agenda and to thank the Marshal, to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, and to thank all the representatives of all the clubs for being also under the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Allow me to read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki. On 10 March 2022, the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Rufin Wybicki's coat of arms by Rogal, a writer, a politician, above all a great patriot and a statesman born on 29 September 1747 in Będomina, Kashubach. Undoubtedly, he was a child of his day. The Enlightenment Age, a crucial period in the history of mankind in which he lived. Versatilely educated (he studied law, natural sciences and philosophy at the University of Leiden), his future was connected with politics. During the bar confederation, which he supported and associated with as an emissary of the Confederacy, he stayed at the Berlin and Vienna courts. In 1794, he took an active part in Kościuszko insurrection, after which he went to Paris, where he took action to create a Polish army alongside France. In July 1797, in Reggio Emilia, Italy, he wrote a song by the Polish Legions in Italy, which brought him immortal fame, becoming a Polish national anthem. During the period of the Duchy of Warsaw, Józef Wybicki held the office of the senator-voivode, and created the new administration of the Duchy, and later, in the Kingdom of Poland, he served as the President of the Supreme Court and a member of the so-called. Legislative delegation, whose task was to develop a new criminal and civil law. As a man full of thought and enlightenment philosophy, Józef Wybicki became famous as a versatile creator. He was a journalist, discussing political, social and even moral issues. In his work he became one of the zealous critics of the false concept of noble freedom in the Republic of Poland, he also addressed issues related to the liberation of peasants. With the abolition of the land to be replaced by rents And the granting of greater rights is a bourgeois one. His activity in the poetic, dramatic and diary was remarkable. He left behind numerous works, some of which, including dramatic works, were published only in the 20th century. Józef Wybicki connected his adult life with Wielkopolska. After the death of his first wife, he moved to Poznań and settled in Maniechka's estate, where apart from literary activity he developed economic activity. The Greater Poland became his home, and the Mannies became a stable and a harbor. Taking into account the important merits of Józef Wybicki for the Republic of Poland, his patriotism and concern for the welfare of his Homeland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopts a resolution on the 200th anniversary of his death. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. So much for a resolution. I would also like to say that tomorrow, exactly on the 200th anniversary of death, there will be a ceremony in Maniechki. I think reading the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland will be an important element of this ceremony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u7	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Halin Poor asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only in addition, without another resolution... On February 26th the next 90th anniversary of the announcement of Mazurka Dąbrowski was the national anthem of the Republic of Poland. It happened 115 years after Wybicki's death, whose round anniversary this year we celebrate Two hundred and seventy-five. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 200th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 32 to 11 minutes 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny. I would like to welcome Mr Jerzy Maciej Fedorowicz, Deputy Director of the People's Theatre in Krakow. Welcome, sir. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Culture and Media and is included in print No 579 and the report "Print No 579 S." I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the initiative of the People's Theatre in Cracow, whose director was Professor Józef Szajna, at the initiative of the Director of Małgorzata Bogajewska and Director Fedorowicz, our committee prepared a draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Józef Szajna's birth. A prominent artist, painter, stage designer, a man who deserved Polish art and culture in an unusual way. I would like to say that at the meeting of our committee on 10 February we considered at first reading the draft resolution tabled by the applicants, minor amendments were made and the committee requests that the Senate adopt a single draft resolution attached. In the committee, of course, the draft resolution passed unanimously. I will now read the draft resolution, which is also the life story of this outstanding artist. On March 13, 2022, the centenary of the birth of Józef Szajny passed A painter, stage designer, director, creator of innovative theatre performances, the main representative of the trend called the theatre of the art narrative. The works of this outstanding artist, who for almost four years was a prisoner of concentration camps Auschwitz and Buchenwald, had a strong impact on the camp experience. This theme was present in His drawings and performances. Józef Szajna critically judged modern civilization. He made the art an obligation to meet the 20th century's experiences. In His creation the world is a gigantic dump, and man is the caricature of God's creation, deprived of individuality of the character of the crowd, driven by primitive instincts and original instincts. Joseph Shayna's works testify to the feeling of impermanence of life and values, especially beauty, revealing the processes of civilization's decay. The artist reviewed people's utopia, illusions and ideas. The main accent was visual expression. In his theater, he gave the most important role to the plastic mark: extensive stage design and, often grotesquely enlarged prop. This idea of the art narration theatre, which he started in the People's Theatre in Nowa Huta as a stage designer and director, was fully developed at the Studio Theatre, which he led in 1971 and 1982. In the original performances, he combined a very personal literary text with a visionary organization of stage space and non-shamp, intense, expressive game of actors. The creativity of Józef Szajny has been appreciated in Poland and in the world, as evidenced by numerous awards and distinctions. He received the World Cultural Award Centro Studio e Ricerche delle Nazioni in Salsomaggiore, Oscar d'Italia 1985 Accademia d'Europa in Calvatone and the Corypheus Scenography Award of Poland. His works are in collections of the largest Polish museums, as well as in the Bochum City Museum, the German History Museum in Bonn, the Buchenwald Museum, the National Museum of Art in Osaka, the Museum of Fine Arts in Osaka. A. S. Pushkina in Moscow, Yad Vashem Museum in Jerusalem, Accademia Italia delle Arti e del Lavoro in Salsomaggiore, Gallery d'Arte Cortina in Milan and in private collections. On the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny, the Senate of the Republic of Poland resembles his extraordinary work and honors the memory of this outstanding artist. I'll allow you, if the Marshal agrees, to have two words of comment. Ladies and gentlemen, creativity... We talked about this at our committee meeting. He actually showed the fall of the world. It was caused by his transitions, terrible crossings in camps in Oświęcim, Auschwitz, and Buchenwald. Of course, I had the privilege of working with Professor Joseph Shajna. But I want to show you how the creator can affect people. I used to run a workshop in Weimar for students on the problem of nationalism, that the Weimar Constitution could lead Hitler to power. I had a problem communicating with students from different countries. I drove them to Buchenwald. And there, in Buchenwald, where Józef Szajna was staying, is the installation, 2 installations. These installations consist of portraits in the form of photos of legitimacy artists who were murdered by the Nazis. This moment of view of these people on these installations as if it changed their perspective on what stereotypes, tolerance or racism are. In this way, I would like to remind you that artists of a large format and other artists also have a huge impact on the education and education of generations. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ewa Matecka has signed up for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The power of art is much more than expressive aesthetic expression. It is above all an opportunity to shape and reconstruct reality in a cross-border manner, in a manner that is not accessible to other forms of human activity. Finally, it is an opportunity to express these emotions and experiences, which conventional means of expression simply cannot cope with. Commemorating the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny, we pay tribute to an artist and a man who was not only able to give his art the horror of his generation's experiences, but also managed to do something incomparably more important: he was able to counter the vision of total destruction the idea of total creation, the basis of which are such indestructible values as good and beauty. As the artist himself used to say: art is an apprehension of what is necessary in ourselves to be liberated. He's also self-defense against defenseless surrender. At a time when evil in its literal and most unambiguous form exceeded human imaginations of tragedy, Shejna exceeded the limits of imagination to discover those areas whose liberation from evil is possible and permanent. He never treated his war and camp experiences as individual experiences, thus transforming them into creative energy that results in a universal message. The presence in border situations and regular face-to-face with last resort led him to believe that the counterweight to such a state of affairs can only be the limitless art that remains beyond the reach of any final event. The extent and importance of Joseph Shayna's work is difficult to appreciate today. The interdisciplinaryity of the artist's works, the escape from the present forms, the breaking of restrictions and conventions, genre, time and space is the path that modern art has been walking freely on for years. This is also an area that, thanks to the creators of a format such as Józef Szajna remains infinite and unexplored. Zbigniew Herbert regretted in one of the loud poems that we believed too easily that beauty would not save. Joseph Shajna never shared this faith. He proved with his work both that salvation is possible through beauty and that the path to ethics leads through aesthetics. For goodness will not be born where there is no need for beauty. In order to understand how the message of Joseph Shayna remains valid today, one must realize the quite obvious truth: every aspect of our life, which is deprived of an element of creative and aesthetic values, becomes an area dedicated in the control of barbarians, and then the need for strong experiences is realized not by art, but by crime and cruelty. So our job is to make sure that awareness of these relationships is not absorbed too late. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u13	Thank you very much. You asked Senator Fedorovich for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I just want to... Thank you for the unanimous support of this resolution, I would just like to say that there will be ceremonies in Krakow. [[He'll be voted on.]] 15 December We've prepared an exhibition. And then we'll all meet at the New Huta. So that in addition to the celebration, there are additional celebrations in the city, so to speak. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u15	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mieczysław Golba and Aleksander Szwed made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Józef Szajny. Mr. Director, if you'd like to take the floor, one sentence. You're welcome. Director Fedorovich, younger generation, will speak. It's like the Oscars' gala. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a special moment for me, for our theatre, for Nowa Huta and Krakow. Thank you very much for honoring this outstanding character, connected with the theatre in Nowa Huta for almost 10 years, from the beginning of its existence first as a stage designer, co-worker of Krystyna Skuszanka and Krasowski Jerzy, the first directors of the People's Theatre, and then as chief director, outstanding artist. That's how history is made. Thank you so much for that. And I'd like to give your marshal a theater album. Although it was released for the 2005 Jubilee, there is one of the last interviews given by Joseph Szajna and outstanding artists associated with the People's Theatre, including my father Jerzy. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, to all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u17	We're creating this scene as a double. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 646 and the report of the Commission In print No 646 A. I would like to inform you that, following the presentation by the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Wojciech Piecha, there will be a break. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'd like your attention, please.]] Report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 3 March 2022 on the amendment of the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. Following the vote at its meeting, the committee recommends that this law be adopted without amendments. The purpose of the bill submitted to the Senate is to improve the procedures concerning the free transfer of dual-use and arms items to the armed forces of foreign states in the event of a threat to the security and defence of the state or the implementation of the national interests of the Republic of Poland in the field of national security. The trading of strategic goods is carried out in Poland on the basis of permits for trading strategic goods and is carried out on the basis of the Act of 29 November 2000 on trading with foreign countries in strategic goods, technologies and services. Entities carrying out the supply of strategic goods, technology and services must obtain an appropriate authorisation from the Minister of Economic Affairs. On the basis of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 point 4 of the Act on Trading, these entities are required to attach an import certificate or a final user's declaration to the application for authorisation. These documents are widely used in foreign trade licensing processes for strategic goods, namely weapons and dual-use items. The import certificate and user's final declaration are key documents for the process of risk analysis of transactions carried out by the trading control authority prior to authorisation. This amendment to the Act on Trade specifies cases where, due to the low risk of proliferation in trading between governmental entities, it is appropriate to waive the requirement to submit an import certificate or a final declaration to the user. Therefore, there will be no obligation to attach an import certificate and a final declaration to the user in the case of: a free transfer by the Minister for National Defence, pursuant to a resolution of the Council of Ministers, to the armed forces of the States of foreign dual-use items and arms pursuant to Article. 92 of the Act of 10 July 2015 on the Military Property Agency; the provision of dual-use and arms items by the President of the Council of Ministers. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Act was amended to clarify the article. 92 of 10 July 2015 on the Military Property Agency. The Act will enter into force on the day following the date of its publication due to the current situation in Eastern Europe and the legitimate, important interest of the State. Therefore, we ask that this law be adopted without any amendments and that it be put on the legal market quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Senator Jackowski has a question. There's still a few minutes until recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, did the committee's meeting mention what the volume of such economic turnover would be? Was there a speech about that? Were there any sizes in terms of volume, value, such cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u21	During the committee's deliberations there was no mention of the quantities, only we know what the materials would be more or less. These are bulletproof vests, military helmets, police helmets and face protectors, limbs and other parts of such defensive weapons. But the money and the size of it weren't discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u22	Still a question from the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u23	I have a question as to whether this bill will also include, let's call it yes, offensive equipment, a weapon. Is that clear from this bill? Isn't that just necessary? What's the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u24	This law will only apply to items of weapons of such dual use, i.e. vests, this defensive equipment, not offensive equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u25	Thank you very much. No further questions. Since the next point is to present the position of the government and we are looking forward to the arrival of Minister Uściński, we will do so after the break. Dismissed until 12:30. And welcome to the opening of the exhibition Felix Cassubia. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 56 to 12 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u26	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. Before the break, the Senator, rapporteur, presented the committee's report on the matter and answered the senators' questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Because there's no representative... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Well, I asked the question. Very often in life it helps to answer questions, it makes life easier. I asked if there was a government representative... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Michał Wiśniewski: I just entered, Mr. Marshal, I'm here. Good morning.]] Great. I understand you'd like to take the floor on this matter. In that case, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The change that is being processed is crucial to ensure continuity of lawful transfer of support to our allies in the field of arms and dual-use goods, i.e. for the realization of vital security interests of the Republic of Poland. Trade in goods in a strategic sense, i.e. arms and dual-use goods shall be carried out on the basis of authorisations issued by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Operators carrying out the supply of the abovementioned goods shall be required to obtain an export licence from the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. On the basis of the applicable provisions, they shall be obliged to attach an import certificate or a final user's declaration issued by the consignee to the end-user of the goods. The proposed amendments consist in making exemptions in the provisions of the Act on Trading, which allow for non-inclusion in the application for export of the final statement of the user and the import certificate in the situation, firstly, of the free transfer to the armed forces of the States of foreign dual-use items and arms by the Minister of National Defence, the basis for such transfer is the resolution of the Council of Ministers. Second, the provision of dual-use and weapons items from the strategic reserve stock by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agencies by decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, this change may be essential in particular in cases where the final user is unable, for reasons beyond his control, to issue the certificates and declarations currently required by the law of the end user. I ask the High House to give this legislation the utmost urgency. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czerwinski, please. 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two short questions. What kind of armament is involved in this amendment, I would ask you to list the groups I don't know, for example, whether it's just defensive or possibly, I don't know. combat vehicles, infantry trucks, etc.? What about our needs, actually our reserves, if we apply this law in a way, would I call it too violent? Do you have any view here of the situation that is at the moment the issue of our reserves, especially those of strategic importance, in connection with the draft law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister, if you would be kind and answer the senator's question... Let me remind you that you can answer in writing too, it is accepted if you do not have the current knowledge on this matter. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u31	As far as reserves are concerned, this question is unfortunately not for me, but for the Minister of National Defence. On the other hand, as regards all other products that can be sent on the basis of this amendment, I will send a written reply to the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Czerwinski's next question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u33	Mr. Marshal, I would also ask for a written reply, because I would not like to start a bigger discussion here. In this kind of mode... Because this is about simplified mode. That's something you have to say to yourself. The prohibition in question does not change, only the mode. In view of this mode it is possible to guarantee at least this, I would call it contractualally, that the equipment so made available will never be used against Poland if it happens to fall into the hands of the enemy, etc.? Will it be an obligation to destroy such equipment? Is there such a security? Of course, I'm asking for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you one question. This solidarity and this assistance will, of course, be long-term. That's how I understand it. We are talking about technologies here, and today in Ukraine and in Ukrainian hospitals there are no basic medical materials, medicines. We also know that the procedure for transmitting these materials and medicines is very complicated. I was personally involved. Does this bill also provide for the simplification of these procedures, so that these vulnerable, sick, injured people can be helped?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u37	Let me answer the first question you asked Senator Czerwinski. It is an agreement only between governments or government agencies. I cannot imagine such a situation that such goods, which we will pass on to another party, will be used against the Republic of Poland. To answer the second question, Senator Komarnicki, I would like to say that these amendments concern only goods and technology, as well as services of strategic importance for the security of the state and the maintenance of international peace and security. They relate in particular to weapons and dual-use goods.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. I see there are no further questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister, since Senator Martynowski has submitted a legislative proposal, you now have the opportunity to respond to this proposal. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: The protocol is submitted.]] He's filed for protocol. [[Voice from the Chamber: Not during the discussion.]] [[At the committee meeting, it's best...]] [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: A committee meeting must be convened.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, after, of course, the presentation of the report by the committee. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The text of the Act is contained in print No 642, and the report of the Commission In print No 642 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These committees today dealt with the Act amending the Act on Support for the preparation of the 3rd Olympic Games in 2023. The Senators had a problem with this Act. I will remind you that the Act concerning these games has recently been examined in the Senate, has received support. The amendment which is now being introduced into this law concerns the amounts which are allocated to the organisation and financing of these games. In the previous law, the amount of PLN 160 million was written down and was intended exclusively for licence fees. At the moment, this amount has been increased to 960 million and is intended to cover the financing of the reconstruction of both sports and road infrastructure in the host city and in the region, i.e. Małopolska. And that's for two more years. These amounts are broken down by year. And the two ministries that will have these amounts are the Ministry of Infrastructure and... well, physical culture. These doubts raised by the senators concerned the time when the money was to be spent on the European Games. Namely doubts were raised whether, in view of the crises which accumulated in Poland, and financial difficulties which are expected, this is the optimal way of spending public money. A motion was made to reject the law in its entirety, which was voted on during the joint meeting of the committee. There were 8 people in favour of the proposal, 6 against, 3 abstentions. The request was therefore accepted. The committees therefore ask the High Senate to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. rapporteur, you have already touched on a subject that I wanted to raise, but if you could develop one sentence... I mean, the opinions, the discussion about these costs. Because we're talking about games that in normal times are a wonderful holiday and The most common We have had genuine competition, however, in Poland and in Europe for several years, especially now, the Games of Death. First death spread and continues to spread 'Cause people are still sick and still dying. Because of the pandemic. And this pandemic has already pulled billions, tens of billions of zlotys from the Polish budget, from non-budget funds. Paying off these costs will be our children and grandchildren. And now she's getting hot and it's the second week of war... [[Mr. Senator, the time to ask a question is one minute. This isn't a performance...]] That's... [[It just has to be a question.]] That's a dot. There is war in the east and again the harvest of death is spreading. It's gonna cost us all too. Is it a good time to spend another billion on something that's great, but not at the time we live, and not at the time that's ahead of us? It's gonna take years...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u42	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, well, one minute, really... I've got to keep this up, because in a minute, everyone's gonna be violating it, and we're not gonna get anywhere. You're welcome, Senator, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u43	Such doubts have been raised. At the same time, even the motion to reject the bill said that at the same time you have to try to live a normal life... So we have a dilemma. Most were against it because we may simply lack the resources for more important matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, the motion for rejection is a nuclear weapon. Other options are not taken into account, amendments are made, etc., and the law is simply rejected in its entirety. I'm surprised you're in favour of this proposal. Well, we don't know if it's personal, but you're the one presenting it. While you are also the head of the local government committee. After all, this money goes to the local government and mainly to the infrastructure, which infrastructure will remain in the local government and for the residents. Well, that's... Oh, and more importantly, it's the government. In quotes, of course. He's giving this money, which means he's up to his budget, and he's able to do it and supply it. Why all of a sudden are you worried? You're starting to worry about the budget? We're gonna point that out to you at every bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u46	Mr. Senator, time... [[You're pointing anyway.]] You're welcome, Senator, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u47	Well, no worries, that was said. And why am I the face of this conclusion? Because I'm the rapporteur. And I am the rapporteur of this law because I was the rapporteur of the bill, which I supported when we decided to support the European Games in Krakow. Of course, infrastructure expenditure of 360 million will remain in Cracow, 100 million will remain in the region and for sports investments, also in Cracow, an additional 150 million. It's definitely a valuable thing. I'm gonna tell you because you asked me personally that I really have a problem with this, but right now we have huge doubts and a lack of knowledge, which is going to happen next week, month, two, three. At the moment there are over one million refugees in Poland, this number will probably double within a week. We have exhausted the simple reserves and at the moment we need to rapidly create centres of mass residence for refugees. It has to be made on the basis of self-government. I am seeking as close as possible the government's cooperation with the local government. It's got a chance, but it's gonna take money. Especially cities are trained out of money and may simply have nothing to create and equip these centers, so any money may be needed. There's too much risk at this point that we'll run out of money for such important things. We have a dilemma about this, and that is why the vote was evenly balanced.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Copy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u49	Mr. Senator, tell me what President Krakow's opinion on the organisation of the games was.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u50	I spoke to the President of Krakow today. He is clearly in favour of adopting this law and transferring this money to the infrastructure for Kraków and organizing the event.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. Minister Andrzej Śliwka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u52	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask the High House to look at this bill two-dimensionally. The first element is the continuation of the work which was announced, with the local government, with the organisers of the European Games. We've calculated these amounts. They've been budgeted. We talked to the Ministry of Finance about this. These measures are secured. Nor did we get any information that these measures were required elsewhere. Therefore, this element that has been raised here in the debate, I hope, has already been developed. The second element, which requires a clear emphasis, is that, High Izbo, these measures are talking about the amount of nearly 800 million, which are now being secured and are to be introduced into the expenditure limit, because the total sum is to be 960 million - these are the funds that will be earmarked for investment. These measures will remain in both road and sports infrastructure. Therefore, because there are voices saying that there is a risk of economic decline, the risk of problems with the current situation, with the Russian invasion of an independent country, Ukraine, I would like to say that through investment-related activities we lead to a situation in which we care about the dynamics of our economic growth. That's one thing. Secondly, what I also talked about with the local government of Krakow as well as with representatives of other local authorities, we do not give in to the pressure that flows from the East, leading to the fact that we are not going to do anything now, because there are such things and not other events in the East. Of course, we must support our Ukrainian neighbours in the fight for an independent state in connection with the Russian criminal invasion, but we must not forget that we have the goals to achieve. The European Games, which would be organized both in Krakow and throughout Małopolska, as well as in the Silesian Voivodeship, are an opportunity for development, which we, as Poland, should take advantage of. That is why I really encourage the High House, that these plans which we have prepared, these actions which we have planned, above-politically, because this must be said, above-politically, with the local government of Cracow, with the local government, also with the support of Members, Senators from various political parties, be realized. Let us not be blackmailed by Vladimir Putin, let us do our job and make sure that Poland is the best country for both Poles and people who come to this country for various reasons. Therefore, I urge the High House not to take advantage of this situation, which is now beyond the eastern border, and to implement the plan that we have set ourselves, to carry it out gradually. I therefore urge all ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. Minister, you may answer from your point of view, but, of course, we appreciate your will. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like you to clearly repeat this once again for those who may hesitate that, in fact, an attempt to reject this law, the proposal to reject it is to enter into the Putinist line. This is the interruption of our goals, the interruption of our normal path of development, because this is also part of the path of development. And the second point, more specialised. Can these objects that arise be used later, e.g. For the next big sporting event? Or, for example, In this situation could Krakow have a specialization in Poland? Let's remember that the mountains are close, so it could be, for example. Winter Olympics and you can use some of the facilities from this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would like to say one thing clearly: if something is planned, then a serious state should implement it, it should carry out the projects it has planned. A percentage of these funds, because this is about 250 million, will be allocated to the sport infrastructure that has been agreed with the local government. The amount of 350 million was also set with the local government in terms of road investments. I answer the senator's question: yes, these investments will remain, and then they can be used by children, young people, in terms of sports infrastructure, or in the future for other sporting events that could also be held. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, we talked to local authorities not only with the local government of Krakow, but also with the local government of Małopolska voivodship, also with the local government of Zakopane, Krynica-Zdrój, Tarnowa and they enthusiastically accepted these proposals. That's why I'm really... I would like to show you a comparison: just as well, ladies and gentlemen, senators could decide that we are holding back road investments, i.e. We don't build now, for example. motorways, as these measures should be earmarked for one or another purpose. I ask that we take action logically and coolly. These proposals, which have been put forward here, are proposals agreed with stakeholders in this process, as well as in the framework of the discussion, and many of these discussions took place both at meetings of the Senate and Parliament committees and at the plenary meeting to reach political consensus on this. So I encourage you not to use this situation politically, because sport should unite people rather than divide people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question remotely, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u58	Minister, I will ask the question in accordance with the call to act logically and coolly. You said, "Don't give up on Putin's blackmail." I do not feel blackmailed by Putin on the European Olympic Games. I have a question for you: did you have a call from Putin? Did Putin ask us not to organize these games? How do you feel about Putin being blackmailed in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u59	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u60	Dear Senator, the actions that have been taken in the field of both executive and legislative power, but also local government, have been planned for the years 2022 to 2023. Measures aimed at supporting the local government in the construction of sport infrastructure, in the construction of road infrastructure, are, as the local authorities themselves say, properly spent funds or will be properly spent funds, and you argue that these measures should not be spent there. I really appeal, Senator, not to take advantage of this political situation. If we had planned a project related to the European Games, we will all agree that it will be added value for the Republic of Poland, for the local government of Krakow, as well as for the local government of Małopolska Voivodeship. We should all carry out this project together. These actions, which have been taken, and with the support of the parties, have been agreed for many months. There is no reason for these measures to freeze or withdraw from these plans. Therefore, I really encourage you, Mr Senator, that we do not use this politically, only over divisions we achieve good actions together, good goals for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u62	That wasn't my question. I asked you at what point you were being blackmailed by Putin if the government was being blackmailed by Putin. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: Mr. Marshal...]] It's cool and logical.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u63	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question. [[The voice from the room: Did Putin call or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u64	No, so... Mr. Marshal, if I could... I think such questions are completely inappropriate, because... [[Voice from the room: They're here, but they're dropping...]] Senator Zdrojewski is like a politician here, and in my opinion this action is not aimed at practicing... This project should be superpolitical. If I said that we should not be blackmailed by Russia's actions, the point was that this is the desire for us to withdraw from certain projects that are good for Poland. Let's not do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u65	But, Minister, I'd like to tell you... Although I am on your side in this matter and not on Senator Zdrojewski's side, it is a little bit wrong to charge the senator with politics. He was chosen to practice politics. And don't make such accusations to either of us whether you agree with us or not, because we're here to pursue politics. Minister, thank you very much. You're still Senator Necessary. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the costs, costs and feasibility of these investments. The bill was prepared before 24 February, before the prices of various materials increased. Now there's going to be growth. All prices, actually. This is the derivative of what we are observing today. There is also a collapse in the rate of the zloty, and inflation is forecast at 12% . There are also some difficulties in hiring construction workers due to the ongoing war in Ukraine. How do you estimate that? How much will it take, instead of PLN 960 million, to really spend to accomplish this task? And I'm asking for a specific answer because I believe it's numbered. We're gonna check it out, 'cause I think today... [[Timer signal]] I don't want to call it an advance because it would be overkill, but it's only part of the cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If I could just say a word of comment... I wouldn't dare make any politicians accuse them of practicing politics. Nevertheless, there are some projects that, in my view, and I welcome, in your opinion, the marshal, in certain situations, should be overpolitical, slightly detached from politics. But back to the question asked by the senator, I would like to make it clear that this amount has been calculated together with the organizers, i.e. local governments. We did not get information from organizers, local governments that this amount could increase. If this is the case, of course I will hurry to inform both the High Sejm and the High Senate that the amount of expenditure limit, the amount of 960 million, must increase. There's no risk of that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you kindly. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank the rapporteur, in particular, for one sentence he said. The point is that he has a dilemma with this bill. We, senators, for each bill, have different uncertainties. I've always been a man of the economy, but I've been a man of sport since I was a kid. I too am torn, I have different thoughts, but I always assume that in life one must be consistent. If we say something once, we keep our word. That's what I've been doing my whole life. I personally believe that since 50 national Olympic Committees supported the granting of the right to organise the 3rd European Games in Kraków, Małopolska 2023... It's easy for me to say, 'cause I'm from Lubusian soil. I'm not from Małopolska and I can't be accused of being a lobbyist. These are the first games. I must remind you of this in this group. In the European Union. Unlike the games in Baku and Minsk, the level of sports was included in the programme of the games. And I want to assure the senators here that this is going to be a high-ranking party. In particular sports it will be a minimum European championship or qualification for the next Olympic Games, which will be in Paris in 2024. See what a start it is for those athletes who will perform. These games are meant to be a symbol. It's very important. Peace, democratic values, Europe's unity just in the fight against military aggression and this cursed invasion. And here's a note: I know that the athletes of Ukraine, represented by the Ukrainian Olympic Committee, want and want to participate in this multidisciplinary, largest sporting event in Europe. Today, and especially young athletes of Ukraine, they want to take part in the winter European Youth Festival, which will take place on March 20, 25 in Finnish Vuokatti. Our Olympic Committee has worked for many years to reduce costs, but not the quality of this event. Existing facilities will be used, which is very important for these professions. And the most important thing is that they want it, I remind you, local governments. We hope, we who have already supported this law once, that this event will take place outside the sanitary regime, with full access for European fans. It would be a great success of our country. Their participation in the event and the media transmission from the event are, today underrated, promotion of Poland and of course presented by our country values, because this is the place for this. The financial resources and the benefits of the image are huge. I believe that we should support this initiative beyond divisions. Our goal, as parliamentarians, is primarily to build peace and promote sport, and hence to have a healthy lifestyle and a healthy society. And finally. The organization of this event in our country is in the interest of Poland, and this is due to several aspects: sports, economic, image and promotional. It is also important due to the political and peaceful role of Poland in Central and Eastern Europe. And it's really over. Before I appeared before the High House, I met with many athletes. In Gorzów there are several athletes who have achieved the greatest success, i.e. They're a couple of Olympic champions. I declare on their behalf that they asked me to perform in this form. I have done this, and I am convinced that there will be no division between us. I beg you, and please stop doing the Putin trip because it's not right to talk about it in this House right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u71	Yes. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I too, like Senator Komarnicki, had previously voted in favour of this event, in favour of this undertaking, in favour of the organisation of the games, in view of the fact that this is indeed a time when we could use a promotion. But things have changed since then. The start of a dramatic, tragic, with unpredictable consequences in the future of the war in Ukraine began. There's a pandemic going on, and the situation is that the government with the declarations is very late, because this event is supposed to take place in 2023, which is next year. Therefore, I changed my mind by looking at the context, the circumstances, today, as well as the government's conditional decisions. I believe that this is not the time, this is not the event and this is not the moment, in general, to carry out a promotional project for a very large amount. Although I love Kraków and I believe that this city deserves great ventures, big parties and various help, I believe that this event in this case is not necessary and may even hurt. I will also refer to a few points that have just been presented. Athletics of Ukraine are currently dying on the front, they are busy with completely different events, not sports events. I also know that the European Games have not been particularly popular so far, they are not undertakings that are widely known, and they do not have the promotional effect that some hope for. I will also remind you that between Minsk and Baku there was a search for a candidate for the organizer, which was to be the Netherlands, but the Netherlands withdrew from the project by making a very precise calculation. Krakow had no competitors, no one wanted to de facto organize this project. Well, we were kind of proud that Poland, Cracow, took this glove. But, as I said before, it was under different circumstances, at a different time, in different circumstances. I do not share the opinion that emerged during this debate, this discussion that the government was raising the budget. That's not true at all. The budget is as messed up as far as possible. We don't even know what external commitments are being made at the moment. And it's both about Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and about various funds, the effects of inflation, the printing of money etc., etc. We have a very difficult financial situation, very high interest rates, difficult access to credit for young people, high inflation, which cannot be seen at the end of which is a very weak zloty. And under these conditions, a responsible politician, a responsible government would not make such a commitment, would withdraw, and this would be as soon as possible to give a chance, perhaps, to organise this undertaking to another country. I know, of course, what amounts we are talking about, and I am aware of how many gaps are currently making it difficult for these measures to be properly involved. And one last argument. I observe the government's involvement in various investments. I share this view, which was expressed that we needed normality, normal functioning, normal investments. But I have observed these investments, both in energy, in the shipbuilding industry and in some of the projects that are close to me, in culture, and I know that none of these major investments, which I also observe, are going as planned. And this is not only going according to the plan when it comes to implementation time, but also when it comes to quotas. Mostly these investments are 2-fold more expensive and last 2-fold longer. There's a year of responsibility for not being embarrassed, and it doesn't mean that the funds have been packed just not where they are most urgently needed. I call once again for a smooth, fast, sense of responsibility to withdraw from this undertaking. Nor do I share the view that, at some point, in rather surprising circumstances, it was said that if we withdraw, we would surrender to some blackmail by Putin. This is completely ridiculous. This is the opposite: we will not surrender to Putin if we have a strong zloty, a strong economy, investments running smoothly if we do not act at present, under the current conditions in promotional projects, only in projects that are reliable, mainly connected with securing our country from the energy side, from the educational side, from the scientific side, also from the state's security side instead of dealing with the event of this kind at such a time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I will refer briefly to the words of the Minister, who said that there is no risk of an increase in the amounts needed for the implementation of the project. Minister, given that this project was estimated before the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, I fear you are isolated in these claims. I think the Ministry of Finance and other ministries and the national bank, etc. they view the situation we are seeing today a little differently. And it's such an unfavorable element that the Minister said he didn't get a signal from the local authorities that these costs would increase. I think it's a little frivolous for the government to have a ministry, to report how costs are going to increase, because it's the government's job to plan things like this and to respond accordingly. The law was passed on February 24th. It's a symbolic date. And that in some way absolves you. Then you don't know. There was something else going on. You could think like that as well as the Senate thought by passing the Act on the Games. Well, things have changed or things haven't changed. We need a healthy approach to this. However, everything has changed and the circumstances are very, very different from those that were before the twenty-fourth. Today is not the time for the games. The enthusiasm which the Minister also spoke about in relation to these games, I think, has given up today enthusiasm for Ukraine's help, for the defence of democracy, for the national community, but for a different purpose than the holding of the games. So let's not compare these two enthusiasms, because surely the enthusiasm for the games has fallen. I'm sure of it. The Minister also said that this is a pro-development element. Minister, all the investments you will make, construction or other, will also be pro-development. The more necessary or necessary ones at the moment and the local authorities, and the state, e.g. investments in hospitals, road investments, of course various industrial investments. All this needs to be supported. Military expenses will also increase. And that will stimulate the economy. So that if this money goes somewhere else, it will also be used appropriately. We have a very difficult situation. The cost of these games will be much higher, because the euro is more expensive, the dollar is more expensive, the raw materials will be missing, the labor will cost more. All this will affect the difficulty of carrying out these games and the fact that you will have to spend much, much more money on them. Such incidental expenses should be cut, because there will be other expenses that will appear instead of those that we do not know about today. Senator Czerwiński said that rejection is a nuclear weapon in its entirety. Yes, but, Senator, many times during the pandemic in this House, law and justice doctors voted against increasing healthcare expenditure to varying degrees. And this is also a nuclear weapon used for various reasons. You have a different view of spending money than other senators. If that's what anybody thinks... It's not a nuclear weapon, it's a simple policy in such a good sense that someone just thinks that money should go the other way. I don't agree with the fact that rejecting this bill is some kind of weird behavior. Soon you'll need money for hospitals. You want to file a hospital restructuring bill. In this act there are hospitals classified into different groups A, B, C, D. In group D there are hospitals from south-eastern Poland From Ustrzyk, from Sanoka, from Krosno, from Przemyśl I mean for restructuring, for some reduction, for optimization, etc. Maybe we should undo these words and give the money to these hospitals so that they can regain liquidity and heal people or be prepared for a party and Ukrainians and Poles and wounded and so on. I'm not gonna talk about it. Yes, I said during the committee's deliberations that there must be life and that sport must also exist, there must be sporting events. Let's not let Putin beat us in this regard, by all means. But let me remind you that the Olympics have been postponed for a year for pandemic reasons, the Olympics, which is a thousand times bigger event than the European Games. And it could be done, it could be done later. And it can be put off too. There's just time... It's about putting off the games, not giving up the money at the time. If we want to spend money on sport, then there are events that will not be held and which were to be held in Ukraine or Russia. These are different events of the European Championships, world championships, various other events. Let's apply for them if we're going to do something. It's gonna be a lot cheaper, and parties are gonna be a lot higher. And finally, such a remark about Putin and whether we act as blackmailed people or not. Putin is an anti-democrat. Putin doesn't want us to discuss here normally, democratically, listing the arguments that some are behind it, and others are behind it, Putin wants us to paralyze, so that we can act automatically, undemocraticly, just by submitting to his dictatorship. Normal political discussion, normal arguments are alien to him. And what we're doing right now, this discussion is alien to Putin. There would be no discussion in the Putin country. Money here, money there And there's no discussion. That's Putin's country. And we are in Poland and the senators are discussing, having an open discussion, everyone can speak and say what he wants, as he thinks. And please don't lecture us in this way, because political agreement Yes, it is. I myself participated in the discussions of the National Security Council at the Presidential Palace. The agreement between the government and the opposition was accepted there, but it was not about spending on the European Games. I assure you, Minister, that we have talked about completely different things, and here the opposition will be as responsible as possible. However, the combination of these two cases does not look serious. Of course, I will vote against the entire bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I can say, just like Senator Komarnicki, being from Lower Silesia, that I am closer to Lubuskie than to Małopolska. And I don't have any regional interests here either, so to speak. But I will say a few things that I disagree with my colleague Senator from Lower Silesia, Mr. Zdrojewski. First line. I thought this was a non-controversial act. The government wants to use money to make investments, to invest in sports facilities, to invest in road infrastructure that will be useful in every region. I'd be very happy to have a party like this in Lower Silesia. Let's remember that Małopolska or Kraków have already missed their chance with Euro There's nothing left to go into as it was historically. And some objects in Cracow were not created, and this is an important center. That's one thing. Secondly, let's remember that this party is next year. We today cannot build roads, not build roads, for example, because of what is happening, because of the terrible things that are happening beyond our eastern borders. DCO in Lower Silesia, whose construction is started, also with government money, did not build power plants. Very populist is what Senator Necessary said that it is better to give this money to health care. There's always something at the expense of something, that's how you set it up for every budget expense. I hope that the opposition senators, including the Presidential Mr. Kaminski sitting behind the table, will help unlock through their connections, Senator Necessary It is also about your colleagues, certainly one former MEP, because there are, among others, funds from KPOs. Giant money for the county hospitals you're asking for. Giant money. If we can get these funds running from the National Reconstruction Plan, we can use them for hospitals. Another point you were talking about, Senator Komarnicki. Well, some commitments were made by the Polish party. Yes? If someone's gonna cancel this party or move it tonight, it's more like a sports relationship, not necessarily a government. Well, in my opinion, it would be an exhibition of a bit of athletes and those who are preparing, because there are already preparations for this event. And one last thing. Today we are talking about avoiding politics, what it divides, and looking for what it connects. And here is Senator Zdrojewski's statement, which says, well, if PiS is doing something, it doesn't work. Well, Mr. Senator Zdrojewski, a few days ago I was on a tunnel crossing on the road S3 to Lubawka. The investment is moving forward, it's being implemented. We're just finishing up a giant investment in Pomerania, which has been promised for years, and none of the Platforms, when you were in charge, didn't make it, and it's about the wormhole to Świnoujście. Talking about the fact that if we transfer these, let's say, about PLN 1 billion, someone will not realize these investments... Most of these investments will be carried out by the local government, whether it's voivodeship or it's the city of Krakow. I don't know why you say such things. We should generally be glad that we want to invest in sport. We want to invest not only in sport, but also in road infrastructure. If I were the senators from Małopolska, I'd be very happy. But I don't envy them. It fell on Małopolska, fell on Kraków, let Krakow develop too. I hope we don't argue about something that shouldn't be shared. Yes? Maybe this is not the level of unity that is, when it comes to Ukraine, because this is a completely different issue, because it is a question of our sovereignty and the lives of people who are losing there, and here we are talking about certain investments. Yeah, but we're trying to make sure that these investments are in different regions, so that the different regions of Poland can grow. We in Lower Silesia finish construction of S3 for over PLN 3 billion. Let Małopolska get something, get something pomorskie, get something lubuskie, let some government investment, giant government investment be in different regions. We shouldn't have this investment today in such an irresponsible way, in my opinion, to try verbally to block, because we are aware of this type of investment, that... I hope, and even the certainty that this investment is being carried out. By the way, I'm curious about Senator Fedorovich's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you that... [[Voice from the room: One more person, Senator Zdrojewski.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Zdrojewski. I didn't get that information. You're welcome, Senator Zdrojewski, in the second round, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u77	Thank you very much. Once the band Pod Buda sang a non-transfer of the capital to Krakow. Now he could sing well: do not transfer this event from Minsk to Krakow. It's a little sarcastic, but I'd like to answer a few arguments that came up earlier, as they're completely untrue. If someone thinks that the effects of this war are about to end, that they won't be moved to the next few years, then I don't know what reality he's living in. If we want to talk about investment factors, we need to remember that these investment factors have fallen in recent times and have not increased, and therefore new challenges and new investments are needed, which will be precisely reflected in the current time and challenges. We need energy independence from Russia and that is why we need to build wind power plants. No mistakes should be made such as in the case of Ostrółek, the towers were built and then destroyed. You must not make such mistakes as are symbolized by a rusty keel. We must not make mistakes like inventing a central airport that has gone to huge, giant money in a very, very difficult period. We must not make mistakes like those in which we have blocked European funds. And we must not make a bad stratification of these most important investments. I realize that you can find some part of the road that has been carried out according to the plan, but what is overwhelming me at the moment is a huge scale of investment, which, as I said earlier, lasts twice as long as it should, and often costs three times as much as planned. Once again, I stress: we have too short a period for the implementation of this Olympics, too serious consequences of the long-term pandemic, too high mortality, the over-normative one, which also has social consequences. And I think it's time for challenges like the Games... This will not serve the Polish state's right, which I want to emphasize once again very strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary, also in the second round of 5 minutes. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Access to this EU money is very simple, after all you know, you know what you need to do to get this money to Poland. This cannot be done by the Polish Socialist Party and its Members or by the Member you spoke of. Well, unfortunately, we don't have the power to rule and deal with these things. Of course, then they would be dealt with first and really instantly. So if we need some help here, some kind of consent, etc., then we're gonna cooperate as much as possible so that this money can be obtained. But we know what the Law and Justice Government must do to do that. There's no need to elaborate on that. Saying that money can be spent differently is not populism. We're at war, and those aren't populist words. The hospitals we are talking about will suffer from an increase in gas, electricity, also fuel prices, including medicines, including equipment, insurance, employees' salaries, including labour shortages, etc. Therefore, the transfer of this money In a very simple way. To increase the valuation of health benefits... The government can do it in one day. To improve this situation, which will be very difficult, because hospitals are post-pandemic in a very difficult situation... It's really not populism. You need that money, you need it terribly. Here the senator is right that you always need money to protect your health, but we're in a situation where it's always squared or cube. That's something to think about. I think this bill is really unnecessary. Even her name is unlucky. The Games... We know what it was like with the antiquity games. This is an unlucky word that reflects the inadequacy of this situation, some, really, separation from reality, such surrealism. We're gonna have games. Well, how does that sound... I hope the Senate will reject these games at a time when we really need resources for something else. Even that word... If it were some kind of championship and so on... But this is the games. So that I ask you to vote against. I think we should stand in unity right now and say that other things are more important. I am not talking about investments for these investments can otherwise be allocated money and I do not deny that such sporting events are needed. I don't wanna get into the meth class 'cause that's not what this is about. It's just not the time. This time is inappropriate and we need to move these games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that no one else in the senators wants to speak. For the sake of order, I inform you that the following senators have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes: Mr.Senator Aleksander Szwed, Mr.Senator Mieczysław Golba, Mr.Senator Mariusz Gromko, Mr.Senator Maciej Łuczak, Mr.Senator Ryszard Świlski, Mr.Senator Janusz Pęcherz. The discussion is closed... [[And Senator Durlak.]] Oh, and Senator Durlak, I'm so sorry. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Code of Commercial Companies and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 634, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 634 A and 634 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the amendment of the Act of the Commercial Companies Code and some other laws, contained in print No 634 A. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's meeting on this matter was held at 9... 10... [[Voice from O.R.: 3rd.]] [[March 2nd.]] ...I'm sorry... On 2 March and the Legislative Commission concluded its proposal to reject the law in its entirety. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, we were able to consult the position of the Ministry of State Assets. The bill was presented and the government represented among others. Mr. Charles Rabenda. But we also looked at the opinions of experts, which were equally sound in this area, all the opinions that we could get to know. I'll give you my opinion. Firstly, it was the opinion of Professor Kappes, who presented it directly at the committee meeting. The Commission has ordered this opinion from him. Secondly, we also ordered an opinion from Professor Romanowski. They are basically the same as the substance and tend to refer to a motion to reject the law in its entirety as unfit for proceding in the manner in which it was prepared. The same was true of the guests invited to the committee meeting on this bill. The Leviathan representative, who made 8 key criticisms of the law, made a very broad presentation of his position. This is also the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. The Legislative Office s, and maybe I will start with this opinion, reported 31 key amendments to the Act in substance. But perhaps the most important part of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and the statements of Mr Jakub Zabielski was the section on how to proceed with the project. The amendment of the Act of the Commercial Companies Code was examined in the Sejm, the Sejm passed it at its forty-eightth meeting on 9 February. The bill was a government submission, contained in the Seym printing no. 1515. At its meeting on 1 October 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the draft to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to examine the draft. After considering the draft at its meetings in October and December, the Commission requested the adoption of the draft as contained in the report. And here is very important information, crucial from the formal point of view: The second reading of the project took place on 8 February 2022. Legislative proposals (proposal for rejection and 16 amendments) were tabled during the debate. In the third reading, the Sejm rejected the proposal to reject the project and accepted all amendments. But while working on the project, among others. the definition of "Company Group' was amended, it was assumed that the subsidiary of a group of companies would not be able to be a financial sector company, that the catalogue of provisions concerning groups of companies would not apply until the disclosure of participation in a group of companies in the business register was consolidated or that the scope of the submission was extended and this is the most important part of the On the amendment of the following laws: Act on certain forms of housing promotion, Act on departments of government administration, Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, Act on procedures in matters concerning public aid, Act on the National Centre for Research and Development, Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, Act on Central Communication Port, Law on Higher Education and Science, Act on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future or Act on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing. This also applies to the tasks and competences of the ministers responsible for regional development, economy, higher education and science, construction, planning and spatial planning. We have therefore learned from the Legal Bureau's opinion that the initial proposal to the Marshal's staff did not raise any constitutional objections, but the draft amendments tabled in the second reading significantly extended the scope of the submission beyond the constitutionally acceptable scope of the Seym Amendment. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments tabled during the second reading on the occasion have been revised, as I said, a whole series of laws which I quote from the Legislative Bureau's opinion so that there is no doubt They do not remain in any thematic, substantive and functional relationship with the essence, the substance of the changes made in the Commercial Companies Code, they do not introduce changes resulting from the modification of the Commercial Companies Code and are not even loosely related to the broader corporate law. According to Art. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution of the Sejm examines the draft law in 3 readings. Rule 3 of the readings means that the Sejm has to consider the same project three times. Any amendments in addition to the draft law on new content should remain in connection with the draft submitted in the Sejm, and it is necessary that this relationship be not only formal but also substantive, i.e. specific amendments to the project should be relevant to the content of the project, aimed at modifying the original content of the project and not at creating a new project. The permissible scope of the amendments should not go beyond the scope of the project, but generally deepen the scope. Any normative content that goes beyond a specific framework should be subject to all stages of the legislative process, which is intended to eliminate the risk of under-work or randomness. A different position would mean a note. To circumvent the constitutional requirements of the legislative initiative and 3 project readings. Changes made by law following amendments tabled at second reading constitute normative novelty and I quote the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office They therefore go beyond the object and purpose of the draft law. In view of the constitutional requirements of the parliamentary legislative process, such legislative proposals should be the subject of separate legislative initiatives. That's not what happened. The addition to the law of amending provisions not covered by the proposal also raises legislative objections. There have already been constitutional shortcomings, and there are legislative shortcomings. In accordance with paragraph 92. 1 Rules of Legislative Technology 1 Amending Act covers only 1 Act. According to your mouth. 2 of the aforementioned paragraph is admissible only if there are undoubted thematic links between the amended laws or the intention of the legislator to do so is necessary at the same time to amend several laws. Modifications made following amendments tabled at second reading Attention, this refers to this particular law In no way can the novel of the Commercial Companies Code be regarded as a consequence. Nor can one coherent idea of the legislator behind the changes in k.s.h. and changes made in laws. These are key elements of the Legal Bureau's opinion. There are more than 30 substantive amendments here, which indicate a lack of substance in this project. Professor Aleksander Kappes presented his opinion to us, and we also ordered Professor Romanowski's opinion. Let me take longer, of course, in the time limit, to present Professor Kappes' opinion, because it was presented at the committee meeting, and from the opinion of Professor Romanowski read an absolutely short passage. What do we read in this opinion? In addition to the passages that are identical to the analysis of the Legislative Office, which states that the project grossly violates the principles of legislative technique and therefore requires the Senate to reject And that's part of Professor Romanowski's opinion because of the gross violation of the Constitution in its creation, in particular the infringement of the article. Two and seven constitutions... As you can see, the opinion is the same as the Legal Office's opinion. Further, in the opinion of the professor, we read: "The flaws of the project are so fundamental that they disqualify it in its entirety. The project was not only based on incorrect assumptions, but was also written in a caricaturally even wrong way. This project represents the symbolic end of the Commercial Companies Code as a code, i.e. the basic law of private law. This approach leads to further destabilisation and disintegration of commercial company law in terms of values, basic constructions and concepts. The liquidation of the Civil Law Codification Commission in December 2015... It is an advisory body at the Minister of Justice, on the basis of my experience, that I have prepared all major amendments in consultation with the codification committees and, as you can see, the departure from this practice has disastrous consequences. The liquidation of the Committee on Civil Law Codification in December 2015 read further in the opinion of Professor, started a galloping erosion of company law. The Committee on Civil Law Codification may have been wrong, but it has always done so carefully, listening carefully to the criticisms. The Committee on Civil Law Codification was a guardian of the stabilisation and integration of private law. This project shows why this role was so important. Of course, the Professor's opinion ends with a conclusion that this project is not suitable for improvement and, in the opinion of the professor, the only way to work properly on this project is to reject the project entirely. As I said, I will conclude by quoting Professor Kappes' opinion, but before that I will make a very brief presentation of the opinion which was presented at the meeting, i.e. the opinion of Leviathan. The Leviathan representative identified eight thematic areas as key in terms of errors in the amendment that was presented to us. First of all, in the opinion of this organisation, this law provides for unclear rules for the adoption of a resolution refusing to execute a binding order, which may cause decision-making chaos in commercial companies. Secondly, the Act imprecisely regulates the access of members of the supervisory board of a public limited liability company to documents and information. Thirdly, the law introduces cumbersome bureaucracy: part of the rules concerning the work of the supervisory board must be included in the contract/statute of the company, which are formalistic. Fourthly, the Act allows a sudden and unannounced resolution of the Supervisory Board in the absence of its member or part of its members. Fifthly, the Act has shortcomings in the provision of information to parent companies by subsidiaries. Sixthly, the Act wrongly confers powers on the Supervisory Board to provide shareholders with an advisor's report This increases the risk of conflict within the company and confuses the powers of its bodies. Seventhly, the Act introduces extreme and inefficient sanctions on access to documentation and information. After the eighth, ambiguous rules determining the relationship of dominance and dependence under the Commercial Companies Code will raise more serious problems after the introduction of the holding law provided for by that law. Ladies and gentlemen, the last opinion, which the committee dealt with the longest, was the opinion presented by Professor Aleksandr Kappes, Head of the Department of Commercial Law of the University of Łódź. In the first part of the opinion, which I will no longer recall, is the presentation of a way of working on the project in the Sejm. The conclusion is exactly the same as in the opinions I have already presented. It means that... I will read one sentence: "Preparation of the Newla grossly violates also the principles of legislative technique laid down in the Council of Ministers regulation. In particular, the reasons for the new regulation and the anticipated effects of the new regulation were not presented in a factual and credible manner in the explanatory memorandum. I will no longer quote the details of this opinion on the way of working, but it is, as I said, the same in the sense of criticizing the infringement of both the laws and constitutional rules on the regulation of the law. In the material part, the professor focused on two areas. I'm talking about the part about corporate law and changes in corporate supervision rules. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to cut it short. I will not quote all the opinions of the professor, but in short the point is that according to the proposed article. 21 the parent company and the subsidiary which participate in the group of companies are in addition to the interests of the group of companies in so far as this does not seek to harm creditors or minority shareholders or minority shareholders of the company. This provision raises fundamental doubts in the Professor's view. Firstly, the very notion of interest in a group of companies is questionable. Although it is discussed in various forums, including foreign ones, it seems that such an approach is artificial. In fact, we are dealing with the interest of the majority shareholder, the parent company in the group, and the other subsidiaries are de facto instruments to pursue this interest. The notion of interest of a group of companies is in fact intended to legitimise the admissibility of the management of a subsidiary against the interests of its own company, often to the detriment of that company, but in the interest of the majority shareholder. Secondly, the interests of the subsidiary are defined by the parent company in any way, which takes away any significance from the condition of the group interest of the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the company's new regulations will only apply to the formal group. I'm already skipping the big parts of this opinion, and I'm not gonna be able to present them. The classification of the group as a formal group, i.e. groups of companies within the meaning of the novel, will be subject to exemption from the will of the parent company. Thus, many groups of companies that are real, informal, attention It will remain outside this regulation, contrary to the statements in the explanatory memorandum that this regulation refers precisely to factual groups. In this sense, the regulation contained in the novel should be considered to be of much less economic importance than it was announced in the explanatory memorandum. As the Professor pointed out, it can be assumed that most of the capital groups, the real groups, will remain outside this regulation because the parent companies in these groups will not be interested in the group qualification in order not to assume the responsibilities and responsibilities arising from the approved regulation. The regulation in fact allows for the issuing of orders by a shareholder, a parent company, and under certain conditions allows the management of subsidiaries to carry out activities contrary to the interests of the companies they manage. Further, in the opinion of the professor, we were able to read his view that almost all current groups of companies in Poland are real companies. It is disputed whether there is a need for specific regulation for such groups. The professor's personal opinion is that the liability of the parent company vis-à-vis the subsidiary, its shareholders and creditors should be regulated. This is the first time I have expressed my view, because I have been rapporteur all the time. I also believe that this should be the subject of regulation, well-prepared and well-thought-out, not written for a misdemeanor and reprehensiblely prepared in terms of both the procedure and the formal part. And that's the declaration I make. If the Senate shares the position of the Legislative Commission and the bill is rejected in its entirety, then of course On behalf of the Senate Legislative Commission, I can declare this. We will be happy to work with the Ministry of Justice to prepare a good project this time. What else can we read in the Professor's opinion? In the opinion of the professor, it is also advisable... Maybe I'll skip corporate law because we're running out of time. I will only refer very briefly to changes in corporate supervision. Like I said, these changes are needed. The purpose of the Novels indicated in its justification is to strengthen corporate supervision. I read the Professor's opinion. Of course, the question here can be asked whether there are significant indications that corporate supervision in the current form of the law is insufficient. But watch out! I would like to recall what the professor has presented, because we will not learn this from the justification: however, assuming that there is a real need to strengthen control mechanisms in capital companies, we ask ourselves whether the regulation contained in the novel pursues this objective, and then, in the opinion of the professor, we have a clear statement that this objective is not being achieved. The conclusions that the professor concludes: the fundamental shortcomings of the novel are the fundamental flaws in the regulation of the company group's law, in particular the breach of the interests of minority shareholders and the threat to creditors of subsidiaries and the non-regulation of factual corporations; the excessive, undue regulation of corporate governance of capital companies, which is an art for art, as we can read in the opinion; the counterproductive and even harmful regulation of information obligations of the management board of a public limited liability company vis-à-vis the supervisory board. In both opinions ordered by the Legislative Commission, we can read... And I would like to say very clearly that both Prof. Kappes and Prof. Romanowski are recognised authorities, so as not to say, leading names in the area that includes this regulation. I'm not saying it's the only one. [[Timer signal]] Both of these opinions end with applications for rejection of the whole novel. Finally, I would like to say that I am not as critical as all those who have expressed their views and opinions, I believe that this area must be worked on, but I fully agree that, unfortunately, this project in its present form is not fit for amendment and I fully support the proposal contained in the report of the Legislative Commission for rejecting the whole project. I will then speak in the discussion, and I will probably also respond to the statements of government representatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 9 February 2020. We considered this bill on 8 March. At the committee meeting, there was a motion to reject the bill. In the vote, 5 senators were against, 4 against, i.e. the request received a majority. So the committee recommends rejecting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I would ask you to specify to which senator you are addressing your question or to state that you are directing this question to both of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The question is this. Because this is quite complex legal, systemic matter, concerning the foundation of business, which is company law, which sets out the principles of organizing entrepreneurship and business, my question is the following. What is the purpose of this law, in the view of the President, a law that in fact overturns the order in this regard, or what from the famous code of commercial companies or the commercial code still from the interwar period as a model? What's the point? If you don't mind, I'll have three points. I mean, the practical goal, I'm not talking about theoretical considerations on the basis of legal doctrines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u87	I'll answer at even one point. The aim is, of course, in a special way to change corporate law and supervision. I am not saying that there is no need for changes in this area. They are, but must be carefully prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u88	Thank you very much. I ask the senator to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u89	Mr President, how would you like to explain... What will be the situation of daughters' companies or grandchildren now if these regulations were introduced? What will change in the practice of functioning, so practically? Because I'm not talking about theory. What will change in such a situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u90	Mr. Senator, don't take this as a malice to the authors of the project, but I don't... Fortunately, there are representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the courtroom. The project is so written that I am unable to explain it clearly, to answer your question. But they will have a chance to answer that question by government representatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u91	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? I don't see any calls. Project... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u92	However, I would like to ask something about this goal, or at least one of many. Could reading this project lead to the suspicion that one of the objectives of this law is to achieve a politicisation of the Polish company market, to increase the influence or influence of power on the activities of these companies, also under the threat of denying the right to sit in the authorities of companies of persons who would not be subject to this influence, and so de facto expropriating from their assets or from their ownership of minority shareholders, including those who have huge packages, because reaching up to 25%? Is this the kind of threat that this bill brings?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u94	Mr Senator, I, of course, have tried very closely, as much as I have allowed, to present the opinions that were put forward at the committee meeting. Such opinions as the senator presented were presented to us by representatives of the economic environments with which we had meetings before the committee meeting when we gathered consultations. Yeah, that's the kind of concern that's been articled. Maybe as directly as you have explained it now synthetically, they didn't fall at the committee's very own meeting. As I say, I have presented these opinions and views But in the discussions preceding the committee's meeting in the context of the working consultation, yes. And yes, this is also how these concerns were presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I don't see any more requests for questions. The bill's draft... Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please take the floor of Minister Jan Kanthak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Acts. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a large, huge reform of the Commercial Companies Code, the largest for 20 years, prepared by the Ministry of State Assets. These works were attended by prominent trade law experts, various institutions such as Leviatan, Employers of the Republic of Poland, Business Centre Club, the American Chamber of Commerce in Poland, the Polish-British Chamber of Commerce, the Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce, etc., etc. Professors Andrzej Szumański, Dominika Wajda, Beata Kozłowska-Chyła, Artur Nowicki, Maciej Mataczyński, Piotr Pinior, Mirosław Pawełczyk, Piotr Niczyporuk, Małgorzata Dumkiewicz and Marek Leśniak participated. So that this project was prepared on the basis of the voice of experts, also based on market opinions. You have conducted a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers on the validity of the introduction, among others. the rights of groups of companies. 62% The respondents replied that there is indeed a need for such regulation. The project includes 3 essential parts. The first introduces the already mentioned regulation concerning the functioning of groups of companies into the Polish legal order. The second includes a package of solutions aimed at improving the functioning of our country's supervisory boards. The third is the other changes, and their scope includes among others. Regulation of the rules on care standards on the part of members of company bodies or clarification of the rules on the calculation of the term of office and the mandate of members of the bodies. The proposed amendments also include provisions to deprive those convicted of corruption offences of being able to sit on boards of companies or to act as a proxy in companies. The chairman of the first of the mentioned teams in the Ministry of State Activities working on the preparation of company groups was Professor Andrzej Szumański from the Jagiellonian University, the second team involved in the preparation of regulations related to the functioning of supervisory boards, Dr. Radosław Kwaśnicki, and the third team who, among others, was Dr. Radosław Kwaśnicki. he worked out solutions regarding the business justice rule, you were Professor Piotr Pinior. As I mentioned, businesses have been calling for solutions to the law of groups of companies for several years. I will remind you that in 2008-2009, under the rule of the Civic Platform, there was an attempt to prepare such solutions, but they never came into force. So that I ask the High House to favor this proposal, which has already been passed by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll ask the same two questions I asked Senator Kwiatkowski. Well, first of all, what's the point? Besides the one you defined. What makes this need, which we are talking about, the existence of this corporate right, legal regulation in this regard? It's a practical goal, not a theoretical legal one. My second question is this. What will change in practice the functioning of the daughter's company or granddaughter's company after the entry into force of the regulations that the government proposes in this matter? What will change with regard to the present situation? What will be the implementation of ownership rights, shareholders' rights? What's it gonna look like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u100	Thank you, Senator, for the questions. The aim is to increase the efficiency of the management of a group of companies. At the moment, we are dealing with groups of companies that operate on the basis of the principle of freedom of contract between themselves. The proposed regulations introduce a framework for companies to benefit from under the Commercial Companies Code, which has so far not been the case. There was an art. 7, which is often invoked by the critics of this proposal, but according to studies carried out by the Ministry of State Assets, groups of companies operating on the basis of Article. 7 we haven't found, they haven't been observed. The senator wants to know what's gonna change when it comes to daughter companies. It is worth noting, first of all, that there is no mandatory application of these provisions. In order to introduce a group of companies, a resolution must be adopted by the proposed law. Both the parent company and the subsidiary, by a qualified majority of 3/4 votes. This provides collateral both if the subsidiary did not want to be in this type of arrangement and for the parent company. If there's going to be a benefit from this corporate law, then... The law provides for e.g. the possibility for the parent company to issue written orders to the subsidiary, which will cause the parent company to assume responsibility for the subsidiary if any irregularities occur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will quote to you two sentences of those opinions which the Senator rapporteur referred to when he put forward a motion for rejection. They testify to these opinions. I would ask you to respond to them. The rule of law is the rule of values, not the rule of majority. I remind you that these are the opinions about the draft of this law or the Polish (no) The load is the culmination of ignorance that we have been experiencing since 2015 or the project was created under the supervision of the Minister of State Assets, which grossly violates all the fundamental principles of corporate governance in listed companies with the participation of the State Treasury, which undermines the credibility of the project. Are these scientific opinions about the project, or is this political gibberish? How should such expressions be treated? [[Voice from the room: How to treat...]] Well, from the professor's opinion, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm going to share my personal thoughts because I've joined the work on this project during work. He has already been prepared by a team appointed by Prime Minister Jacek Sasin in the Ministry of State Activities, a team headed by Minister Janusz Kowalski, and I only joined at the stage of parliamentary work. I must say that I was actually surprised at the fact that in the context of the discussion on a typically substantive, expert project As I mentioned during my speech from the lecture hall That really outstanding experts have been working on, such as: Prof. Szumański, who worked on a huge reform of the Commercial Companies Code in 2001 or 2000 is a lecturer at the Jagiellonian University... It would seem that such a project should not create a strict political debate. I was really surprised. Despite my young age, I already have some political experience, because such a project can cause such a political storm and that experts representing a critical party to the project actually spoke in an extremely political way. It is worth noting that during the parliamentary work there were meetings of committees and subcommittees, that there was an extraordinary subcommittee on codification, and that even though discussions at these meetings sometimes lasted six hours, the critical party did not make any amendments. And we were very open to amendments, which is best borne out by Senator Kwiatkowski's report, which stressed how many amendments were adopted during the work of the Parliament during the committee's work by the Ministry of State Acts. This shows that on our part there was and is the best will to work on this project in a substantive and concerted manner, because I think that really the last field on which the battle of politicized, political, these are code regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, I have such a practical question. During the committee meeting it was also mentioned in relation to this study on the interest of the group of companies, there were considerations on this subject. I would ask the Minister for such a practical explanation. We know that there are two large groups of companies, one is for example. PKN Orlen, she has a lot of subsidiaries, then grandkids, etc., and the other is for example. PKP Group. What will change now with regard to the parent company? How will it be practically possible to influence the operation of these subsidiaries in a situation where the interests of the subsidiary may differ with the interests of the parent company? And so often it happens in these groups, e.g. when setting tolls on rails by Polish Railway Lines or such stories. I'd like you to ask the Minister. practically refer to it. Is there going to be an increased power here, let's call it, a board of directors, a board of directors and a meeting of shareholders or shareholders in relation to the current state or not? It's power, I'd say, management, operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u108	The Act adopted the so-called. Rosenblum's doctrine concerning the interests of groups of companies. She expects companies in the group to follow a common economic strategy. This strategy will focus on the pursuit of a common interest and will justify the exercise of uniform management by the parent company. ♪ I'd be like this ♪ He compared, in such a figurative way, the team game to the football team. These smaller companies can be regarded as defenders, larger companies as attackers. Now this common strategy will be more complementary. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, He believes that the interests of this dominant company are always the most important, and that the interests of this company should be as if completely dependent on each other's interests of the rest of the companies. In turn, accepting the Rosenblum doctrine means taking a completely different approach. This is precisely the complementary approach, which includes the complementary interests of all companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! We're talking about a law that concerns very complex matter. In some statements, including those of the Minister, it was said that solutions... Otherwise: legal solutions concerning this matter are important and if they were well-designed, they are needed. For now, the market is doing just fine, so to speak. And it is. Several years ago, there was also a test. It did not reach such a level of proceding precisely because we assessed that matter is so complicated that it can be changed legally only if you are absolutely sure that this change will not be harmful by chance. So you have to have a responsibility here. And if you do not know that a perfect law is being made, it is better not to change the imperfect one. A very good example is the Polish Load, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. A few months before his entry into force, we all explained And politicians, and experts, and specialists, and entrepreneurs, and taxpayers, all of them. This will lead to the ruins of the law, the practice of case law, that people, taxpayers will not know for weeks or months how to account with you, but not listened to, has been introduced. And now we have a few hundred amendments to this set of laws. So the point is, you have to have responsibility. And if you hear it, if everyone says that the new solution is going to be worse than the actual situation, it's better not to change the actual situation. And that's what we did. Today we are debating a bill that can be described and discussed for hours. I am not going to do this because it is really enough to quote a few quotes from the experts formally adopted here and under discussion to conclude that it is better to keep the facts and legal situation as it is rather than to try to change it, to the detriment of it, to change. Mr. Prof. Dr. Hab. Michał Romanowski, Department of Commercial Law, Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. A few quotes. The first: the project is unnecessary, extremely sloppy and evidence of a gross lack of competence, knowledge of the authors. Another quote: The project requires the Senate to reject because of a gross violation of the Constitution, in particular the article. Two and seven. Another quote: The project was drawn up with a gross violation of the principles of legislative technique. The following quote:.According to the Commercial Companies Code, about 200 editorial units of the new regulations have been introduced. In fact, they're all faulty or unnecessary. The following quote: The project has been governed by provisions which do not have any connection with the Commercial Companies Code. The following quote: "The project discussed is an attack on the whole company law and the safety of legal trading, and in practice on Polish and foreign shareholders of companies. The next quote: "The consequences of the adoption of the law may be decision-making paralysis in companies with the involvement of the State Treasury, but also legal risks in the conduct of private business." The next quote: "The project, if it came into force, will lead to the fact that the boards of companies will gain powerful weapons to pursue their own policies rather than the policy of a group of companies." Another quote: The project carries a blurring of the responsibilities of management and supervisory boards, and in practice it will be an attempt to exclude their responsibilities. Another quote: The project carries the risk of depriving many people who have fallen into disfavor of power, the right to serve in companies even for a period of 5 years. The next quote: The project discussed is the opening of the way to expropriate minority shareholders. Another quote: The solutions contained in the project allow us to enforce the obedience of private business to power. These opinions can, of course, be approached differently, with more or less emphasis, with more or less conviction, but one thing is important and important - we are discussing one of the most important areas of law for all those companies that are often leading, economically, economically and technologically in the country. If such opinions are expressed, this is the basis, for example, for having sufficient doubts as to whether such a project should be introduced. There's enough doubt... Even if there was no conviction, then the doubt here should be enough not to introduce such a project to sit over matter again, maybe in a wider circle, and to prepare a solution which such doubts, because I am no longer saying that the allegations would not entail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! In fact, in the shadow of these dramatic events in the East, we process a project that is very important for economic, socio-economic life in Poland. Why? Because it's kind of a system act. With the ownership structure we have in Poland, where the participation of companies of the Treasury or companies with the participation of the State Treasury is important for economic life, and in certain areas it is the most important and decisive issue, it is essential for the functioning of our economic life. I agree with these opinions on the need to consider the issues of change in this area. And I'm not some dogmatic opponent, I'm not saying not to change what is. Because what is, of course, can be changed. But the point is how and in what direction this will change. I think that those who are listening to our debate here have witnessed such a dispute, a little doctrinal, about company law, corporate law. That's knowledge. It's quite unique, quite specialised. However, I would like to look at the practical side of these changes that have been made. I agree that perhaps in the 1990s a mistake was made when state-owned companies were transformed into companies governed by commercial law. Perhaps... For example, I will refer to the PKP group, the Polish National Railways. It used to be one of the most powerful, probably one of the largest companies in the times of the Polish People's Republic who dealt with basically everything that is related to the widely understood railway industry. Later as a result of the decision it was divided into several companies: PLK, PKP mother, Intercity, Cargo etc., etc., etc. And perhaps the management of such a powerful group, where the interests of individual companies do not necessarily have to be compatible with the interests of the whole or the mother company, has indeed created very serious challenges, such management and coordination activities. Perhaps... I don't want to appeal to other areas, other industries anymore, but there was a similar situation there. Nevertheless, it seems to me that, with such a fundamental law, we need to be careful about two issues. First of all, so that it is not perceived in some environments. As the first step towards nationalisation or renationalisation of these companies. Because de facto power is increasing, well, you can say, a management which in these parent companies is somehow politically chosen, let's not be afraid to use that word. It was for the predecessors, it is now, and there is no indication that this situation is about to change. So, in other words, this is an increase in the area of functioning of the state or decision, no, par excellence political or quasi-political in the area of the economy. Sometimes it is necessary, I am not a dogmatic either, I am not saying that everything is to be private, there are areas of the functioning of the state, e.g. Energy is the area where the State must use other criteria for security reasons. However, this regulation does not only apply to the areas I have mentioned. It concerns the entire functioning of these companies. And from this point of view, as well as the practice that has experience in the way public limited liability companies operate, I am very careful about the provisions that have been proposed in this Act. I think it may not be good that there has been some broader, deeper discussion on this subject. Minister Kanthak admitted that he was involved in the work on this bill at the time when its foundations were basically ready. So here he is a representative of the government, but not an author or co-author of the same statutory provisions. I will therefore vote in favour of the proposal to reject this law. And my second point, more general. It does not concern Minister Kanthak, but the way the whole government operates. As a parliamentarian with many years of experience, I regret that we have an increasingly lower level of legislation. I think that this style of work in the Seym or in the Senate, which was in previous terms, even in very, very previous terms of office, when the Senate committees met practically twice during the process of the bill, first there was such a hearing, the senators presented their proposals, there was a discussion, and at a separate meeting there were amendments, and there were work on the text itself... I also think that the legislative centre of the government was more concerned about the level of legislation in the projects that came to Parliament. And here I'm watching something bad that's happening. Such laws as Polish Load or other powerful changes or changes, well, from the point of view of... I'm already overlooking the intentions or directions that are being proposed, because this is judged, this may be the subject of discussion. But from the point of view of legislative art itself, these are very... well, they leave a lot to be desired. And that is why I am appealing to Minister Kanthak to resolve this problem in some way. We here, in our parliamentary practice, see that actually most of the laws or a large part of them are amendments to the amendments that need to be improved, because suddenly it turns out that something else is coming up. Moreover, if discussions, debates, opinions, expertise were addressed, it would have been observed. It's not like nobody knew about this, that we'd entered a whole new land, and that this is an experiment, otherwise we just can't. There are already some patterns, there are rules, there is some practice, and I don't know why I should give up on that. From this point of view, unfortunately... Or, for example, regulations on restrictions on civil liberties in covid times, tightenings in this regard. Well, unfortunately, it has to be said that from a legal point of view it was a mess. It's hard to say that we've dealt with a sophisticated art of legislation. This, in my opinion, deserves to be improved, all the more so because the government or the dominant party of Law and Justice has the right to say that, for this reason, it would have to respect the law and respect justice in some way. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to say a few words about how the law is made. Because this project we are considering is another proof of how the lawmaking process and the legislative process in Poland have been degraded. Codifications are specific in nature, we are concerned about the consistency of legislation and its long-term application. And the first great sin here is the liquidation of the codification commission. You do not have the right to rely on the fact that in the process of preparing a government bill, some or other scientists participated, if you did not have the courage to work with the codification committee, a committee which, after all, arises on the ground or on the basis of the decision of the Minister. It is a civilized form of creation of codification since the Second Republic of Poland. Even in the Polish People's Republic, codification committees were maintained, resulting in e.g. The civil code in Poland did not become sovietized, it maintained Western standards, although in the socialist economy only in part. In the Sejm, we are actually dealing not only with the promise that the Law and Justice have failed to implement the democratic package, but also with a whole range of actions that violate the existing rules. This project was not properly consulted and was not subject to a public hearing. It is important, because if the government believes that this is a serious doctrinal dispute in which it is worth listening to various reasons... It is also worth listening to the concerns raised by Senator Jackowski, that is to say, fears of not so much nationalization as the supercentralist way of managing public assets. You can say that by bringing it to extremes, in such a way that two or three people in the country decide about something that requires the sharing of trust and action of many people. Such concerns had the right to be raised also during a public hearing, but there was also no public hearing, although it is code material. Lessons for the Future And this is actually the conclusion for the majority of the opposition in the Senate that the change in government in Poland must include the way in which the law is created, i.e. the restoration of the codification commission, the invitation of people with different opinions but professional ones, and the restoration of standards of transparent and fair conduct in the Sejm. Otherwise, the Senate will indeed be such an institution of the last rescue. We are often needed because the bill is going through the whole legislative process, and the government is right about the Senate and our Legislative Office, which can pick up errors that probably wouldn't have been if the law had been fair and transparent. And that's a big lesson for the future. It remains for me to express my hope that, at this extraordinary time in which we live, the government will avoid further decisions so controversial when work is needed above divisions, or at least listening to the point. But it's just hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u115	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u116	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, don't want to duplicate what my predecessors said, I can sign any of these statements. Those mistakes made by people who make this law, there's really a lot. The Polish Load was mentioned, which to this day is reflected in hiccups, which are supposedly still being worked by outstanding specialists, and boils down to a huge mess. I wrote a few statements to the minister and what I get in response... Well, maybe someday it'll be shown in economics classes as an example of how you shouldn't make legislation or implement laws. The same applies now to companies, to the commercial code. I have such a feeling that all these companies are being dealt with by people who have never dealt with it or had no business... It's just that math should be one thing for everything, and it's not only that there's no logic in economics, but there's no logic in what this project is now assuming. So that, of course, I will vote against. And I ask that this legislative process, which is terrible, and someone signs under it... well, please, to change it, because all these people are really just making fun of themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u117	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Artur Dunin, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Wadim Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Michał Kaminski. [[Voice from the room: I Martynowski.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: And Senator Martynowski.]] Good. You have also submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Martynowski. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Talking in the O.R.]] You have also submitted legislative proposals to Senator Bladder... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] No? [[Voice from the room: Speech to the minutes.]] Ah, a speech for protocol. All right, I'm sorry about the mess. Do you wish to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned in my previous speech, we, as authors of the vast majority of the provisions of this law, were open to all substantive discussions, amendments which were adopted at the stage of the parliamentary work. And so now we are open to possible amendments to the Senate work. So that we're ready to do the substantive work.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u119	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drug Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 628 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 628 A and 628 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the Law on the revision of the Anti-drugs Act adopted by the Sejm on 8 February 2022. On 9 February 2022, the Senate Marshal sent the Act to the Health Commission. Following a review of the Act on 2 March 2022, the committee asks the High Senate to approve the attached draft together with the amendments voted at the committee meeting. Four amendments were tabled at the meeting. All the amendments were voted positive, but it is also worth noting that the Ministry of Health also agreed with these amendments. Here I can refer to a subject that has just been examined, namely the issue of the Commercial Companies Code, where inadequate consultation is alleged, the swift conduct of the whole legislative procedure. And this is what we have been dealing with in this case, because all of these amendments were due to the fact that at the same time 2 anti-drug laws are being prosecuted. One concerned the area of health and was only on the Committee on Health, and the other, of a similar nature, was on the Committee on Agriculture. As a result, certain information on deadlines did not agree, and this was, as I said, caught by our legislators during the committee meeting. The Senators agreed that these amendments must be made. As regards the purpose of the whole legislation and the course of the legislative process at the meeting of the Committee on Health, I would like to say to the High House that the senators working in the Committee on Health have welcomed this proposal, because many years ago, when we first discussed the introduction of drugs that are drugs-based, we also raised the issue of crops. A few years ago, there was no agreement that the law would also regulate this issue. Therefore, this project is now an extension and is accepted by people who are dealing with health protection and know how important this medicine is, in some medical units it is the only one. Therefore, any action that makes it possible to increase the production of this medicine, as well as to reduce the price of this medicine, is as positive as possible. As I said, the purpose of this law is to allow the cultivation and harvesting of herb or hemp resin other than fibrous hemp to obtain pharmaceutical raw materials, which is the basis for the preparation of prescription drugs, as well as to regulate the management of these crops and crops. Of course, this type of cultivation must be carried out under special supervision and special control. The chief pharmaceutical inspector will be responsible here. He supervises, gives consent, but also controls all the procedures that are needed for both cultivation and subsequent development of the medicinal product. As I said, the essence of the whole project, and hence the cultivation of these hemp, is to increase their availability, because at the moment hemp, as the basic raw material of the drug, is imported. Unfortunately, we are very often confronted not only with supply disruptions, but also with a significant increase in prices, which unfortunately makes it impossible for patients to access the right amount of medicine. During our discussion of the project, as I mentioned, the purpose itself and its assumptions did not give rise to any concern from the Senators of the Health Committee. However, the controversy concerned the article. 49, after which this was added the article. 49a. This is actually the whole weakness of this law, because although we see progress in the ability to obtain raw materials, it is this article, art. 49a, as if it's holding back this process a little bit. For according to this article, cannabis cultivation will only be possible in supervised research institutes. As far as supervision is concerned, this is absolutely very important and important, but these are institutes which are subject only to the Ministry of Agriculture. In fact, according to the information we have received, this is one institute prepared. The Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants in Poznań. Therefore, the senators asked why we are trying to sanction one institute, which will be a monopoly. So the question is, is this institute... Even if he grows hemp and later, in accordance with all the procedures imposed by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, they will be raw materials for the manufacture of medicines, whether he will be a monopoly on the market, but will not result in price increases being absolutely competitive by withdrawing from cultivation by other institutes. We were most interested in the exchange of views that took place between representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of Health. We know that the Minister of Health has many... oversees It'll be a better word. A number of research institutes. Of course, the Ministry of Health does not produce a drug as we know, but under the Ministry of Health is the chief pharmaceutical inspector and research institutes. That is why we have repeatedly asked why cannabis farming is reserved only for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Health does not want to participate. The Ministry of Health has repeatedly assured us that it is not interested at the moment in extending its competences. This was due to the fact that there was no possibility of cultivation. In the discussion, the senators argued that perhaps it was worth combining the forces of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, to stop acting siloly, and to look at the problem simply more horizontally, but the Ministry of Health has several times assured us that they are not interested in expanding this type of competence. Of course, the supervision of the chief pharmaceutical inspector is a very important issue throughout the drug process and that the agricultural institute, under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, can lead to the formation of pharmaceutical raw materials, because first there is only breeding, that is, plant material. In order to produce the pharmaceutical raw material that will be the basis of the drug produced, the whole process must be very closely supervised by the chief pharmaceutical inspector and must meet all the conditions of GMP, i.e. good practice. At the moment, the agricultural institute does not have such powers because it does not comply with the principles of good practice of developing a medicine. We have been assured in the Committee on Health by a representative of the Minister for Agriculture that at the time this law enters into force, the Institute will only be performing for such powers. To sum up, the entire amendment of the law goes in the right direction, first of all it extends the opportunities for increasing the number of medicines needed for patients on the market. These medicines are used especially when treating people with cancer, as well as people with epilepsy, which is resistant to any other medicines. So that the availability of these medicines for patients here becomes an overriding feature for us, the most important one, just like the price of this medicine. Therefore, we will look very closely at the further implementation of all procedures, which will ultimately lead to the creation of GMP and the possibility of producing medicines in Poland. I am sure that, as I know life, we will once again amend this law in order to extend it not only to the Minister of Agriculture, but also to hopefully to the Minister of Agriculture. It's about the Ministry of Health. The Commission adopted the proposal together with four amendments which were, as I said, supported by the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Agriculture, like the Committee on Health, discussed the draft amendment to the Anti-drugs Act. After listening to the report by Senator Małecka-Libera, I can say that the proceedings of the Health Committee were similar to those of the Agriculture Committee, and I will therefore try not to repeat those elements that were common. I see that the Health Committee has discussed this project very closely. I will say that he entered the Sejm on January 13th this year. In the Seym, as in us in the Senate, the Health Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development dealt with this project. The bill was passed on 8 February. 438 Members voted for it, 15 against it, and 1 abstention. As I said, Mr Sachajko, who presented the objectives of this law and the main elements which it brings, attended our committee meeting. I'm not gonna repeat them. All I'm going to say is that the law allows the cultivation and harvesting of herb and resin to be carried out, as if complementing a project that we've been working on in our previous term of office, which only allowed for production. The Member has also set out the rules. Crops will be carried out in research institutes after the authorisation of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector has been obtained. He also told us what conditions these institutes must meet. E.g. they must have a properly secured place of business, have a technology, employ qualified persons, have procedures and a control system for their activities, have quality systems for harvesting, carry out appropriate documentation. We later heard the legislator's comment on these four amendments, which the senator has already mentioned. Since these are 2 amendments in 2 committees, some discrepancies have also been discussed and clarified. These 4 amendments were taken over by your chairman of the committee and voted on. Both the amendments were adopted unanimously, by 8 votes and later by the entire bill. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development shall apply to the High Senate for the adoption of this law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u123	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? There you go, Senator. [[I have a question for the senator...]] Senator Matecka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u124	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. Mrs Senator, you said in your report that the Ministry of Health did not express an interest in enriching or expanding the activities of research institutes subordinate to the Ministry of Health on the basis of the regulations contained in this Act, because they concern, as we know, only those research institutes which are subject to the Ministry of Agriculture, although they concern our health. Did the Minister of Health present at the committee's meeting give any reason? Has he answered the question of why the Ministry of Health is not interested in expanding the activities of research institutes subordinate to it and carrying out these tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u125	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u126	Thank you very much. Indeed, this issue was actually the main theme of the Health Committee. We were very interested in why the Ministry of Health withdrew from entering its research institutes into the contents of the law at all. Why? I think the Minister will want to speak on this subject again, but, as I recall, it was above all a statement that the Ministry of Health did not produce drugs. Well, it doesn't produce drugs, but research institutes do. I would also like to draw the attention of the High House to such detail, so that it is clear: what we are talking about today and what is included in this bill, that is the possibility of cannabis cultivation in our country by research institutes subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture. But it's only vegetable material. For this plant material to be made up of pharmaceutical raw material, and ultimately a drug, it must be subject to the whole procedure of good practice, i.e. GMP. And now the most important element: after growing this product, these cannabis is the procedure for getting this GMP, this good practice. This is a long-term process, very expensive and very detailed, which ends in certification. And this is the element for which the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, who is under the Ministry of Health, is responsible, so it would seem logical that the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of Health should work together, maybe create some consortia or interrelated institutes that would cooperate with each other from seeding and growing these cannabiss and ending with a finished product that will be made available in the pharmacy. And they created the conditions for this medicine to be as available and as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. I have a question for you. Because I heard the Ministry of Health didn't express any interest. I would like to ask, did it support the bill, or was it against this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u128	Mr. Marshal, good question, thank you very much. It is a parliamentary project, but the Ministry of Health was behind this bill. It was also in favour of all the amendments. [[It was behind that bill, but he claimed he couldn't certify it. Yes?]] He's not interested in growing hemp.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u129	I'm gonna ask the Ministry of Health that question. Thank you very much. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. I have a question for the senator. A quick question, Mr. Senator. Well, I didn't exactly learn from this report whether the agricultural ministry was behind this bill or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u130	Yeah, it was behind that bill, and it was behind those amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u131	Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would the Member like to speak? Your envoy isn't here. Thank you very much. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of applicants related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are two ministers, but there are no government leaders. There is a representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski, and there is a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Secretary of State Anna Gembicka. Are there questions for ministers? There you go. [[Yeah, I'd like to ask...]] Senator Matecka. You're welcome. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a question.]] Who? [[The Minister of Health.]] I'm gonna have to ask the Minister for a speech. Wait a minute, Senator. We'll wait. Oh, there's the chief pharmaceutical inspector, Mrs. Ewa Krajewska. Ask me a question. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u132	Minister, what is the particular reason why the Ministry does not want to express its interest here, does it not see the need to extend the scope of the research institutes that it is subject to, to the tasks associated with this law? If they were carried out jointly with research institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, it would increase patients' access to these pharmacological agents, often saving their health or improving their comfort of life.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u133	Oh, excuse me, Minister. I forgot to offer you... I forgot to ask you if you'd like to speak on the bill under consideration. Now the answer to the question will come, but of course you have the opportunity... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Yes, of course there is a question...]] ...start with your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u134	Mrs. Senator, the institutes under our command are strict institutes. I'm a medical doctor. They do not have agricultural production, livestock farming, crop cultivation or the sale of other agricultural products in their statutes. They therefore focus on this core activity. These are strict institutes. medical, maybe other than a few institutes that have a different range of activities. In particular, it is the State Hygiene Institute, which supervises public health, the National Medicines Institute, which controls the quality of medicinal products, but also does not produce medicines alone, because it is not his task, and the Institute of Rural Medicine, which also does not have such a task. So no, no... I don't think it's fair to change the statutes of these individuals to grow. Moreover, there are 12 institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, a sufficient number today. We know that there is one interested who has experience in similar crops, so... There's one so far, and there's another one that might be interested. As far as the area is concerned, this is quite sufficient, some institutes have several thousand hectares. What has been brought in so far will suffice for several thousand square meters of crops to be realized. Of course, we believe that it should ultimately be a far greater availability of this pharmaceutical raw material. So that was the main goal. We're not interested in changing, expanding. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u135	There you go, Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course, you're partly right if we're just talking about cultivation. But cultivation is just one element of the whole process of preparing a specific pharmacological agent. Thus, research institutes under the Ministry of Health could, if this were the interest of the Ministry of Health, enrich their activities with these tasks. And this could unreservedly expand their competences and capabilities, and I mean research, etc., that's all research institutions could do. At a meeting of the Health Committee, one of the experts was also proposing to set up a consortium of research institutes that could work together to increase access to these drugs based on... It is also about crop-related measures, those raw materials related to hemp cultivation, etc., etc. So there is a way out of this situation and this problem could be solved if there was only a certain agreement between the two resorts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u137	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u138	As I said, cooperation agreements between actors are always possible. We have declared full assistance as central offices and have already met with the institute concerned in this area, in order to guide procedures, to prepare the work after the entry into force of the Act as soon as possible. Those institutions that are involved on our side, on the part of the Ministry of Health, are the chief pharmaceutical inspector who will issue the consent and who will later supervise these crops, as well as the registration office of medicinal products, which will also assist. If other institutes want to sign a contract, e.g. The logistics institute or other institutes that are in the Łukasiewicz Research Network, of course, will be able to, because these institutes are also important in the field of medicines, some quite important. So that it would be on the basis of a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u139	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for you. Does your department, the health department, believe that this issue should be dealt with by the agricultural department, not by the health department?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u140	Yes, we believe that production, cultivation of plants should take care of the farm, not health. At the same time, we were in full support of this law and we believe that... In the work on one we have been, the other will be discussed, and also the other one, and we have a lot in common here... We both supported the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u141	Well, I'm not gonna push you. But will it be a cure, Minister, or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u142	No, it's the pharmaceutical raw material necessary to prepare the drug, but mostly it's... [[It's a product. We're talking about a product necessary for the preparation of the drug.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u143	All right. Thank you, sir. I'll ask the same question to the Ministry of Agriculture. I must say, this situation amazes me. I'm sorry. Why amazes? Because we have a bill that no one, no resort wants to implement. Minister, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, a representative of the Minister of Agriculture. And I'm gonna ask you a quick question. [[They're afraid of drugs!]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] I want to know what's going on. We have a bill that both departments support, and at the same time, according to the discussion, no one will implement it. Minister, a brief question: do you believe that the health department should implement and deal with this product?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as these solutions are concerned, first of all, as the Minister said, it is necessary to separate the issues of the crop itself, which they know about, for example, the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants or the Institute of Plant Cultivation and Acclimatization... Because this is where cloning technology is used. The point is to make it as repeatable as possible so that this raw material can meet all the requirements. And we believe that the Institutes of the Ministry of Agriculture have the best knowledge in this area. We also have the right area, because, as Minister Miłkowski mentioned, institutes actually have hundreds of thousands of hectares on which they manage. Of course, for this crop, actually... I think it's worth knowing that to produce about 1 t of hemp drought Last year this much was imported to Poland The area of approx. 2 000 m2 is needed. So it's really a small area. Of course, this breeding is conducted in the halls. And the product that's coming out of the institute is pharmaceutical raw material. Then pharmaceutical companies or other entities, or institutes, who will be interested in producing medicines from this raw material, will, of course, be able to buy it from the institute. But I think what's important and what needs to be emphasized... It is not that if this cultivation is in the institutes of the Minister of Agriculture, it will not be supervised by the Ministry of Health, because the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector must exercise this supervision as much as possible. And, as the President mentioned, the institutes will have to meet the requirements of the GNP.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u145	Thank you very much. That's it. That's what you explained. I mean, the Ministry of Agriculture is able and willing to implement this bill... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: Absolutely.]] ...to a certain point. Yes? Until the drug comes out of it. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u146	I would just like to add that there are already various pharmaceutical operators at the institute who are interested in purchasing this raw material. So we're not afraid that there won't be that kind of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u147	Thank you very much. Is the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, Minister... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I would like to ask, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, please. Senator Malecka-Libera. There you go, questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u148	Thank you very much. Minister, one sentence you said at the end: there is a great interest of the actors. But what right? So far, no one can even plant one grain until they have GNP and there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u149	Of course. As already stated at the committee's meeting, it is only at the time of the entry into force of the law that the institute will be able to start this cultivation. But as a result of the ongoing work on the law, the institute, like any other entity, can hold talks about future cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u150	Are there any more... Senator Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u151	Thank you very much. Minister, how many research institutes are there under the Ministry of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u152	12 research institutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u153	And how many institutes can carry out this task and are now ready to carry out the task, in accordance with the regulations of this law? Is it just the one in Poznan, or is it all?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u154	The Institute of Plant Breeding and Acclimatization also submitted a request from us. I would not like to prejudice whether these institutes will operate in a consortium or whether this will be organised by them in any other way. In any case, I would like to stress that this is not about the number of entities that will have this. As far as the availability of the raw material is concerned, it is really about how much will be produced, that is, how many halls will be prepared to start this production, what area will be available. As far as demand is concerned, as I said, last year it was, as far as the whole import is concerned, about 1 tonne of drought, but looking at the previous years and how the demand for this drought was increasing, we expect it to simply increase. [[I have one more question, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u155	There you go. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u156	I'll ask. I understand that since the law enters into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, on the 15th day we already have ready institutes, with full powers that will be able to deal with this and which will increase the availability of this raw material and, consequently, further increase the availability of patients to these measures. Yes? And my second question. When are we gonna do any good on this patient bill? When will the first products based on raw material produced by the research institute be able to serve patients? What's the time perspective here?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u157	As far as the time perspective is concerned, we predict that this could be the end of this year or the beginning of the future. At the time of the entry into force of the law, the institute can actually start to bear various types of expenditure, e.g. concerning investments in halls related to preparation, followed by obtaining all necessary authorisations. As we said at the committee meeting, if this crop is not yet started, because the law does not allow it at this point, then neither can we begin to seek GMP or any authorisation. But we're on full alert, we've had meetings with the Ministry of Health, with the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, so that we can be as quick as possible... As you know, all these requirements provided by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate must be met to ensure that this medicine is safe, this final product. But we're ready to get started as soon as possible. carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u158	Thank you. Senator Malecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u159	Thank you very much. Minister, I feel like we're in a circle like this. The Institute cannot start growing cannabis because there is no law and there is no GMP, but there is also no guarantee that he will get it GMP. Right? All the more logical is the supervision of the Minister of Health and the extension of the competences of research institutes to this breeding... It would just be more logical, because that's how we operate in two spaces that... [[Senator, ask me a question, because time is running out.]] Thank you. It's just a statement that it's just completely illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u160	But we're at a questioning stage, Senator. There was no question, but, uh, there you go, if you'd like to comment...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u161	Good. I'll be brief on that. As I said, the fact that cultivation will be carried out in institutes supervised by the Minister of Agriculture does not mean that it will in any way be exempted from supervision by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate. It is the GIF, as the MAH, that will also ensure that all these issues are met. I don't think there's any need to worry about this surveillance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u162	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: Thank you.]] I'd ask the chief pharmaceutical officer, Mrs. Ewa Krajewska... I have one question for you, so please. Maybe there'll be others, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector certify medicines that were made from plants, plant medicines?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u163	Absolutely. The Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector is certifying in the scope of GMP. Our office also issues permits to produce to the full extent, whether it's chemical synthesis or drug-related... well, in terms of all sources of extraction. As regards the operator authorised to manufacture, the authorisation for processing and processing of those controlled products is still required for controlled measures. If the entity has such a set of documents, it is, of course, entitled to produce.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u164	Are there any other questions? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Who? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, Senator... [[Voice from the room: Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are also medicines of plant origin that have an effect that may not be as violent as those that can have far-reaching effects, not only such as those produced from cannabis. They are obtained e.g. From herbs. I have not met with such far-reaching sharpenings regarding the cultivation of these herbs or the extraction of these herbs from nature as in the case of cannabis. Please tell me whether these rules really need to be so far-reaching. Is the effect of all these requirements concerning e.g. that institute that runs the crop... Well, they're big enough that I doubt that one of them will choose to do it on his own, of his own free will, rather forced to do so by the plant production he will continue or undertake. Don't you think it would be easier to do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u167	Dear Senator, when it comes to the supervision of controlled drugs and narcotics, they have their own regulations. And it doesn't matter if it's weed... whether these ingredients are in herbs, plants or chemicals. The effect of these substances identified and classified as psychotropic substances or narcotics is important. They are subject to strict restrictions at all stages of manufacturing, marketing as intermediate products. That's how this system works, and there's no breach for this one substance, because why would it be a breach for this one substance? We know well that narcotics are typical drugs used in every hospital every day. We don't have that breach here either. Morphine, fentanyl, well, many of these drugs are derived from plants. So it would be a breach that wouldn't have any justification. As for the procedure itself, she is a fairly simple procedure today from the point of view of our body. Indeed, today, according to the provisions of this law, this is really linked to one administrative procedure following an application by the research institute. As far as we're concerned, this bill brings some news. First of all, this project provides for the possibility for a research institute supervised by the Minister responsible for agriculture to obtain possibilities for the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous hemp. It's a novum. This cultivation could not be carried out in Poland so far. I think that when it comes to the availability of drugs for patients, about which the chief pharmaceutical inspector It cares very much, this is a good solution, because this is a law that extends possibilities, not narrows them down. Also with regard to THC levels in plants, this law raises this level from 0.2 to 0.3, which will also increase the possibilities of compliant crops.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u168	Minister, I have a question for you. Can the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector supervise this medicine from the intermediate product, from the creation of the intermediate to the attainment of this condition, when the drug is made from this intermediate product? Can this whole process be supervised? I don't know, maybe I didn't hear, but I heard... Well, okay, whatever.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u169	In fact, our office oversees the process in this particular case from the time of cultivation, as we see here through changes in this project, until the release of the medicine for the patient, so we are present as an office at every stage. Indeed, crop surveillance is a novelty for us, but I think that due to the small scale and such a delicate entry to the market of this project, we will manage here, of course, in cooperation with this institute, with the Ministry of Agriculture. We know that cooperation between different institutions is very important, that this is an element of public health. So that we feel our role in the system and we certainly commit to this cooperation. So we are at the cultivation stage today, which is new to us, but also at the manufacturing stage of the API, which is these active substances in the drug, and of course we will also be at the production stage of the raw material. So, really... And, of course, there's a constant distribution of wholesale distribution, retail distribution in pharmacies. Where the chief pharmaceutical inspector, or perhaps rather the provincial inspectors, also carry out supervision. So we're going to be at every stage of this drug's production.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u170	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector Ewa Krajewska: Thank you, too.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybicka, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is very important. I'll talk about it as a practice doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, medical marijuana in Poland has been used for a long time: legally since it was legalized, it has been recently And before that, parents of children with drug-resistant epilepsy, when no drugs helped, grew this herb on the window and made tea out of it. And imagine that in many cases it helped. This is what Dr. Bachański did at the Children's Health Center, and he's still doing it today. There was a moment when he was... [[Disruption during the speech]] We want to draw this up so historically, because this law is very important, very important. The reality of those who need this healing marijuana will change. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...I had to give the kids different... [[Senator, we can't hear you very well. Excuse me.]] Yes? We can't hear you very well. Maybe it's better now? [[Speak a little closer to the microphone, and if you don't, we'll have to turn off the vision, then we'll hear better. Speak closer to the microphone, because it was difficult to understand you.]] And important, very important... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[It's even worse, Senator. Speak to the microphone.]] Why don't I turn it off? [[It's breaking the connection.]] I turned off the video. Is it better right now? [[Voice from the room: Now it's better.]] [[Yeah, better. There you go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are many medical marijuana preparations that patients need, both children and adults. Maybe I'll tell you what the indications are for using medical marijuana. It's not just a drug-resistant epilepsy, it's also preventing vomiting from chemotherapy, preventing... [[Disruption during the speech]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u172	Senator, I'm so sorry, but it's ripping, it's ripping... Senator, I'm gonna let the next person speak, and then we're gonna come back to you. Maybe we'll hear better. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] Yes, thank you, Senator. I'll ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, and then we'll get back to your speech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u173	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I will also look at these 2 points, which are today on the agenda of our sitting, the seventh and eighth, the Print Act No. 628 and 629, from the doctor's point of view, practice. Well, of course, I think it's certain that in Poland the admission of certain psychoactive substances, including medicinal marijuana, is a taboo theme that we are doing a little bit of disappointing just now when we are discussing it. It is for doctors of practitioners that the so-called availability of the so-called. cannabis other than fibrous cannabis, and I mean medicinal marijuana, in everyday practice is extremely important. That's what my previous speaker, Professor Chybick, was talking about. It's not just about treating epilepsy, it's also about chronic cancer pain. or rheumatic diseases, as well as disorders of the spectrum of autism. So we're working on procedures, and we're wondering which department should do that. I believe that the issue is absolutely important, and that our research institutes, subject to either the Ministry of Health or agriculture, can deal with it, following good practices... Because this is a certain sine qua non condition that needs to be met in order to even start testing, breeding, cultivation. So that before this drug arises in Poland... Well, there's a long way to go. But this is extremely important, especially in the context of other substances, such as: alcohol that is allowed in every store and we use it, and our patients, Poles use it, and it can also have very long-lasting consequences, not always beneficial to our health. For me, as a doctor, the use of medicinal marijuana in everyday practice is also so important that in Poland other painkillers, so-called. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that have a high toxicity to the internal organs and are allowed to be sold in virtually every store, every kiosk, not only at the pharmacy. I think that we should also pay attention to this, because unfortunately we often treat the complications of these medicines. That is why I believe that what is introduced in this Print Act No 628, i.e. an increase in the content of so-called. cannabinols, i.e. TCA, in a sample from 0.2 to 0.3%, will to a large extent make these medicines even more effective. The effect of the dose is very important in the treatment and this should be focused on. I therefore support this bill with the amendments made by the Health Committee, and I am pleased that the High House is dealing with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u174	Thank you, Senator. Back to Senator Alicia Chybick's speech, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u175	Again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope you can hear me better now. I'll say it again. My previous speaker said there were a lot of indications. Nervosis... a lot, actually. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...for which cannabinoids can be used. This bill is very good. It's great that the agricultural department oversees marijuana breeding, because you need to know which herb to plant, so that it contains the right amount of good cannabinoids, because it has to be emphasized that it is a very rich plant. She has 483 substances, including 65 cannabinoids, and we're talking about THC, HCA and other subtypes that have the best effect on the diseases I've been talking about. Also, it's great that it's going to be done by the institute or the pharmaceutical company and that it's going to be under the control of the pharmaceutical inspector, which is... The inspector introduced it very well. Because the very important thing is the product that will arise. What farmers produce is weed. It's supposed to contain those 0,3%. Very important tetrahydrocannabinoids. But then you have to make a suppository for a little baby, you have to make an oil that can be greased with aching joints that you can... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...massage the muscles that... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...and can serve those who need externally... We also need to make some pills. And of course you can, as we have so far done, produce tea, which is dried herbs pour with boiling water, then arise... The problem is, if we have it, They did, it was the contents of the drug in the middle that were more indeterminate. Now that it's in the hands of the pharmacologists, I think it's going to be huge progress and that this drug will be even more effective. Why are there such sharpenings? Well, they're because it's a drug from a drug group. But this is really the weakest drug I know. Our children must be given painkillers and morphine, and other very strong drugs, and I must tell you that we do not observe special habits. And even if it happens with long use, it's very easy to get out of it. Of course, marijuana will never do such a thing as these strong drugs. So I strongly support this bill. I'm glad she's here. The fact that it's under control is very good, because any man who takes a drug should know what's in it, from A to Z, and someone who produces it... This production must be under some kind of protection, because it will be the production of a drug. Senator Martynowski referred to another herb here. But this is a special herb. It's not as herbal as chamomile or other herbs, where it doesn't really matter what it produces. It's very important, both how you grow, because you have to... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...what fertilizer to give to make this herb good, so that there's a lot of these compounds there. And then the specialist, the pharmacist, needs to do what the patient needs to do. And we doctors will be comforted to be able to prescribe both this and this and this and that. And so far, I'll tell you, the parents of the children have been going to Prague, beyond the borders of Poland, the service... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...in short, it was a bit of a circus on wheels, and thanks to this bill, it will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u176	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Halina Bieda, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Artur Dunin, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Golba. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 629 and the report of the Commission In print No 629 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development examined this Act on 2 March and asks for its adoption together with the 9 amendments annexed in the print. The law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction and certain other laws in its name refers to the same law and the same subject matter that has been discussed at the moment concerns a similar scope. Well, she's heading in a similar direction, but a little bit different. It concerns the possibility of growing low morphine poppy and fibre hemp for own use on areas of not more than 1 ha per year. The Act amended the rules on the cultivation and buying-in of poppy and fibre hemp, as well as a number of changes related to the fact that, despite allowing such cultivation, this would continue to take place under the full control of the State. The point is that these crops should not be used for the wrong purpose. At the same time, the Act introduces rules on penalties for cultivation without appropriate notifications, in addition to the relevant registers. As part of the amendments, in addition to ordering certain formal issues, we have proposed as a committee such a full guarantee that there will be no double penalties for certain activities related to non-compliance with the provisions of this law. There were doubts, for example. Penalty related to making statements or information... If these statements and information were not in line with the facts, the penalty would result from this law and at the same time from the general provisions on the certification of non-compliance in documents. Such a person could also be subject to those other sanctions. In these amendments we remove these doubts. I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry's team for their help in preparing these amendments. Thus, these amendments, like the whole law, were adopted unanimously at the committee meeting without comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u178	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no envoy. Thank you. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I address you to Minister Anna Gembicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u179	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as this law is concerned, it is primarily intended to make it easier for farmers, growers who decide to grow fibre hemp, to carry out such cultivation. What has been discussed in connection with the previous law, i.e. increasing this limit of THC to 0,3%, is also a solution to the changes that are foreseen in EU law. From next year on, in connection with the reform of the common agricultural policy, including on subsidies, cannabis subsidies will be paid up to a limit of 0,3%. THC. As far as this bill is concerned, this is it. also to meet the demands of growers in the area of, for example, the transfer of the obligation to monitor poppy and fibre hemp crops from wojts, mayors, city presidents to the National Agricultural Support Centre, the introduction of a single register of operators who carry out these crops, in particular the replacement of this long-term expectation of authorisation for these crops with a quick entry in the register, the abolition of the obligation to obtain an annual permit for cultivation or the abolition of the annual districtization of poppy and fibre hemp crops by means of resolutions of the voivodship sejmies. Therefore, we as resort also have a positive view of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u180	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Halina Bieda, Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Golba. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 638 and the report of the Commission In print No 638 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development debated the law adopted by the Sejm on 24 February 2022, the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and certain other laws, there was a discussion at a committee meeting. After a long discussion, it can be said that the committee is proposing to adopt a law without amendments. Of course, it is a law that responds to, you can say, mainly farmers and improves the agency in order to create an entity that will operate even more efficiently than it currently does. Therefore, these solutions, which are included in this Act, are intended to improve the functioning of the Agency and help farmers, inter alia. with those difficult loans which are the problem that needs to be solved. This is the opposite. Well, there are so many positive effects, and I think the rest of the details, if necessary, will be presented by the Minister. So, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u182	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the representative of the committee. Are there any such questions? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Ryszard Bartosik like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present a law on amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and some other laws and ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. The Act contains provisions on the extension of farmers from the so-called. old commitments, commitments that still appear in the Agency's accounts in connection with the implementation of the Sapard programme, but also other pre-accession and subsequent programmes. We propose here that it be possible to redeem these commitments, but above all interest. The proposals in the Act are motivating for debtors, because if they pay their principal, part of their principal will have pro rata interest. These loans mainly concern those farmers who are unable to settle their commitments, who have already ceased their agricultural activities, were insured at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. This is a demand of farmers, unions and agricultural organizations, and we are meeting them here. The Act also contains provisions that will enable the creation of an IT company whose sole partner would be the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This company would work for the Agency by carrying out its tasks. These tasks, as you know, are very much because the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is the largest paying agency in Europe. It implements existing aid schemes for farmers, investment programmes, promotional programmes for Polish agriculture, but also national programmes which involve, for example, the ASF epidemic, other problems that explode here and there, programmes related to e.g. with the implementation of drought or other damages. The implementation of the new financial perspective, the common agricultural policy and the strategic programme, the National Strategic Plan, is also ahead of us. This also involves the need to develop these IT services. We therefore propose to establish a company that would perform these services for the agency. To date, the IT department, which is able to carry out some of these tasks, is able to carry out, but a large part of the IT tasks are outsourced to external entities. If a company is established, it will carry out all these tasks, it will be able to commission its tasks, which will shorten, for example. tender procedures that are now in operation. In the event of the establishment of a company whose sole partner will be the Agency, these proceedings will be reduced to a minimum and tasks can be carried out more quickly. It is also important that IT service providers, IT specialists are very sought after, desirable on the market, and thanks to the company formula they will be able to be employed on a business basis, on a market basis, there will be no restrictions here. The Agency or its department so far had problems with this, simply staffing problems. Ladies and gentlemen, it should therefore be said that this company will serve the better service of farmers, the creation of new programmes, so much needed agencies, and the development of IT services. I would also like to stress that this company can also This is the project. To carry out the tasks assigned by the Minister for Agriculture to other agencies, the institutions working for agriculture. The company will be subject to the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, but in the part where the legislation obliges it, the financial rules will also have the supervision of the Minister of Finance. In this regard, I ask that the High House adopt this law without amendment. I would also like to point out that the write-off of outstanding debts to the agency is possible through covid rules and, therefore, it is justified for this law to enter into force as soon as possible. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please welcome her. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u185	Minister, what is the sum of this debt to be restructured? Would you mind telling me? That's pretty close.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u186	Mr. Marshal, about this debt... The number of farmers is not so large, whereas the arrears are already so far away that they should be regulated. On the basis of the notes I have, I can say that this applies to 2,000 778 cases, of which 1 thousand 295 cases are for preferential loans. This amount is about 524 million, but the principal amount is. 174 million. We see that interest exceeds the principal, so we want to sort it out, since there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u187	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u188	Minister, I have a question about the article. 10a. There's an entry saying he's in charge of the rule of law... No, that as regards administrative proceedings before administrative authorities, the administrative body is upholding the rule of law and then there are also suggestions on how this process should be conducted by the administrative authority. And my question is this: isn't it that these solutions, which are in the Code Act, in the Code of Administrative Procedure, were almost taken over alive into the ordinary law? Because as far as these articles are concerned, Art. 9 speaks of the principle of active participation of the parties in proceedings, Article. 10 speaks of the principle of informing the parties, and there is also an article. 7 k.p.a., which speaks of the principle of objective truth. So it's all about the fact that a public administration is supposed to uphold the rule of law, but at this point, these principles are sort of developed again in the ordinary law. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u189	Mr. Senator, I don't think it bothers you, it only makes it possible to carry out the tasks set out in this bill. If we duplicate such provisions in this law, it does not constitute any collision, but, on the contrary, it makes it possible to implement the laws which are included here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u190	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u191	Minister, you've talked a lot about this IT company. And the question arises as to whether the commissioning of this company will take place under the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u192	The Public Procurement Act allows the application of the so-called provisions. free hand and we would like to use this recipe here. It is natural that if an institution has a company that performs such tasks, it is possible to use such a solution. It is used in many local governments, in many other institutions. In this way, we will even shorten such conduct. At the moment, when it comes to tendering procedures, we have a very often timely problem. They're prolonging. They are very often already in the initial phase protested. With our own company, we will, of course, be able to use it in accordance with public procurement law to develop IT tasks for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u193	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I know that the matter of setting up a company was questioned in the parliamentary debate. I'm not questioning it because I've been running the city, and I've set up companies, too. However, I would like to know from the Minister whether you have counted what effects you may expect from the establishment of this company. Are these only economic effects, or other than economic effects?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u195	The whole calculation is included in the justification of the documents. Anyway, it's a report. I'm talking about the financial issue here. Nevertheless, an important element, Mr Senator, will also be that the company will specialize in IT activities, but strictly related to the tasks of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, where these programs are, well, very specialised. They concern agriculture, but in the context of the implementation of the common agricultural policy. If the only partner is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, I think that even such ongoing cooperation, on the line the agency will work well. Well in terms of substance, task. And in addition to the financial implications that are foreseen there, that after a few years there will be positive financial effects, also those effects that I am talking about are of great importance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u196	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u197	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You just said the company's only partner would be the agency. But where does it say that? Because, of course, there is a record that the agency can own and include shares in the company. That's the mouth. 3 of the following Article: 21a. But, at least for now, I haven't found a record that the company may have one partner. That's the first line. And two, is this company... She's just supposed to pay IT better. Okay, but will she have a structure like the agency? Well, if the maintenance of the IT system... the agency goes down from headquarters to county level. But is there going to be an example of that? The employee of this company, who will maintain the system, will maintain the system? Well, it's so important... Will this company be specialized only for writing programs, or also for the complete maintenance of the IT system? And will this company have the same structure as the agency?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u198	The record that the agency's only partner is in the bill. I can't pinpoint the location right now, but I'm sure it is. As far as the structure is concerned, it will already determine the company's statute, but it will be constructed so as to serve the agency as best as possible. Mainly it will create IT programs, it will function just like today's IT department, which is located in Lublin. And mostly this general IT task will be carried out in individual counties. There are already agency employees, they will work on the basis of software and IT instruments that will be created, preserved, operated by this company. These are related tasks. Well, at the moment, the employees of the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture also benefit from programmes which are created by external entities under contracts, after previous tenders, and here it will work similarly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u199	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u200	Minister, I have two questions. The first question concerns the fact that banks have so far carried out debt restructuring. At the moment, the Ministry in this Act wishes to set up a company for this purpose. And that's the first question. Two. From what you're saying, I'm assuming the agency wants to take its computer science to the company so that it doesn't just serve those debts... So it creates in the company or rather brings to the company everything that has been in the agency so far. Is my point correct in the latter case? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Mr. Marshal, in terms of regulations...]] In other words, on the occasion of this extension, do you introduce your IT tasks to the company? Or else: does the agency carry out its IT tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u201	Mr Marshal, as regards the provisions relating to redemptions in connection with the extension of the farmer, they have nothing to do with the establishment of the company. By creating this law, we use the covid recipes, it is possible to sort this out, and at this point we kind of add these tasks to this law in order to use the covid rules and sort out all these old debts. And it's not gonna have anything to do with the creation of an IT company. The IT company will carry out all of the IT tasks that our department in Lublin is currently carrying out, i.e. the IT department, in a much wider way. In addition to this department, tasks are carried out by external bodies. This company will take over all those tasks that are carried out by external entities, which means we are not taking anything from the agency. By comparing the state of the future and present, we can say that the agency provides some information... We make them available on the basis of a contract to third parties right now. In the future, if the company operates, we will cooperate and cooperate with our own company on the same terms as at the moment with several external entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u202	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u203	Thank you. Minister, there is a branch in Lublin, a department that has existed for several years. Can you tell us what the agency would have had so far if it hadn't had this department? And second question. Will this department be liquidated and absorbed by the company? As I understand it, at this point there is a kind of extension of the department's scope and transformation... As far as I'm concerned. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u204	As far as this department is concerned, he did his job, but he only did some of the IT tasks. In the way in which he was able to carry them out. In addition, we used external companies using the Public Procurement Act and simply commissioning these tasks outside. This department, you might say, was a step in the right direction. We want to expand these activities, but we need to change the legal form. Indeed, the department's employees will be taken over to a great extent by the company created by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, by this new entity. It is also important to have these opportunities to reward workers on the market. The department could not carry this out as the company could. It is also important that thanks to such remuneration, this company will be able to download from the labour market outstanding IT specialists, professionals who will develop these activities professionally, create new programs, implement the Agency's IT policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. That was the last question. Then thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you, Mr Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Bladder, Sweed, Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. The text of the Act is contained in print No 631, and the report of the Commission In print No 631 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee. In remote mode, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Yes, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, a report on the work of the Act, which aims to agree that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. This law was discussed by the committee at its 90th meeting on 16 February. The provisions of the mutual support and investment protection agreement concern the provision of full protection to the investor on the part of the State party to the agreement and the possibility of redress before the international investment and arbitration tribunal. Investment protection and support agreements were concluded by Poland with most of the Member States of the European Union. They were so-called. BIT agreements. BIT agreements are challenged by the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union because they are incompatible with European Union law. In its judgment of 6 March 2018 in Achmea BV, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that Article. 267 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union must be interpreted as conflicting with certain provisions of international agreements concluded between Member States. It goes on for example. on Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 8 of the Investment Support and Mutual Protection Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, according to which an investor from one of those Member States may, in the event of a dispute concerning an investment in another Member State, initiate proceedings against that other Member State before an arbitration tribunal whose competence the latter has undertaken to recognise. Thus, the Court of Justice of the European Union has stated that Member States concluding BIT agreements have established a mechanism for resolving disputes with investors by which disputes which may affect the interpretation or application of European Union law will not be resolved in such a way as to ensure the full effectiveness of this right, which undermines the autonomy of European Union law. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law in Seym printing No 1893, the Republic of Finland was not interested in resolving by agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. Poland has therefore concluded the Agreement with effect from 16 October 2019. According to art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 investment contracts concluded before the date of the termination of the contract were to be protected under that agreement for 20 years after the termination of the contract. On 23 July 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland asked the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Helsinki to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the agreement in the form of an exchange of notes. The proposal was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Poland. The parties to the Agreement agreed that Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 contracts will expire and will therefore not have legal effects. The Agreement shall apply to the matters referred to in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 2 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, freedom, rights and obligations of citizens and matters governed by the law or in which the Constitution requires a law. The agreement therefore requires ratification with the prior consent of the Act. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion is positive. In the Seym, 443 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, 10 Members abstained. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at its 90th meeting on 16 February this year, following the presentation of the Act by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Deputy Minister for Development and Technology and Mr Konrad Marciniak, Director of the Legal and Treaty Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unanimously adopted this ratification act without vote in the discussion. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the legal consequences of the expiry of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jacek Włosowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, do you know why the Republic of Finland was not interested in resolving this agreement with us by agreement of the parties? That's the first question. And two: what number of actors or cases could this be about in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u209	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, when it comes to why, that was not the case at the committee meeting. It so happens that the work on the termination of BIT agreements has been ongoing in the European Union from November 2018 to October 2019. This resulted in an agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, which was signed by 23 Member States in Brussels on 5 May 2020. Finally, Austria, Finland, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which participated in the work on the above-mentioned Treaty, have not decided to sign it. As for the arguments why this happened, I'm asking you to redirect... Perhaps the Minister will answer that question. And yet, Mr. Senator, second question. [[What number...]] Could you please... [[What number, I don't know, actors, cases could be about a solution that will now enter into force?]] From the information contained in the explanatory memorandum and held by the Ministry of Development and Technology, it appears that both Polish and Finnish investors did not refer claims to international arbitration tribunals against each other on the basis of an agreement. That is, against the Republic of Finland and Poland respectively. I don't think there were any such claims here. That's what we have in the explanatory memorandum. This was not discussed at the committee meeting so that you could possibly question the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u211	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. Right now... I'm sorry. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. The text of the Act is contained in print No 632, and the report of the Commission In print No 632 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, a report on the work of the Act, which aims to agree by the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989, on which the committee was sitting at its 90th meeting on 16 February. The provisions of the mutual support and investment protection agreement concern the provision of full protection to an investor on the part of the State party to the agreement on the territory of the other party and the possibility of redress before an international investment tribunal. This is exactly the same matter as those BIT contracts I was talking about at the previous point. Sweden was not interested in resolving Poland by agreement of the Parties to the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. Poland has therefore concluded the Agreement with effect from 16 October 2019. According to art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 investment contracts made prior to the date of the termination of the contract were to be protected under that agreement for 20 years, as was the case in the previous paragraph. On 18 June 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden asked the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Stockholm to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the agreement in the form of an exchange of notes. The proposal was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Poland. The parties to the Agreement agreed that Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 contracts will expire and will therefore not have legal effects. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion is positive. In the Seym, 446 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, 10 Members abstained. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at its 90th meeting on 16 February this year, following the presentation of the Act by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Deputy Minister for Development and Technology and Mr Konrad Marciniak, Director of the Legal and Treaty Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, adopted the ratification act unanimously in discussion. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the legal consequences of the expiry of the agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Then I invite Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three brief, specific questions. Why in this case And in the previous one, as I suspect, the countries that were connected with the Polish agreement did not want to terminate it under the agreement of the parties? What moved them to sign this agreement? And one last question: is this the last issue of such cases, Finland and Sweden? Or will there be any such agreements?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, both countries did not want to comply with our original proposal because they considered it detrimental to their economic interests. They changed their minds under pressure, and they were very strong on the part of the European Commission. Let us remember that failing to comply with these proposals in this case would mean that these countries are violating European Union law. And under this pressure, these countries adopted a different strategy of action. In fact, we are finishing, you can say, these 2 laws today mentioned the process. As I recall, I think 1 or 2 more countries are in a similar situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u216	Thank you very much. Any more questions? No... Oh, excuse me, Senator Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would just like to ask you about these countries. Because the agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment treaties was concluded by 23 Member States. Finally, Austria, Finland, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which participated in the work on this treaty, did not decide to sign it. Today we ratify the expiry of agreements with Finland and Sweden. There are three other countries: Austria, Ireland and the United Kingdom. Is Poland... Have these ratifications been done before?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u218	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u219	Thank you. You will soon receive documents in other cases as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u220	Thank you very much. That's all the questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 640 and the committee report In print No 640 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Energy Law adopted by the Sejm on 24 February. At the committee's meeting, a proposal was made to adopt the law without amendments, it was voted out and most senators voted in favour of such a decision. The amendments proposed in the draft law aim to supplement and clarify the provisions of the Act of 10 April 1997 on Energy Law, hereinafter referred to as the Energy Law, as regards: rules for connection to the network where another network is to be connected to the network for which the same electricity undertaking for the transmission of gaseous fuels has been designated by the system operator, as well as charges for connection to the gas transmission network; powers, obligations and areas of operation of the gas transmission system operator, the connected gas system operator and the owner of the gas transmission network on which the gas transmission system operator has been designated; relations between the owner of the gas transmission network and the operator of the gas transmission system designated on that network; powers of the national regulatory authority • the President of the Energy Regulatory Office; concessions for the transmission of gaseous fuels. In the designed article. Paragraph 7 1d of energy law is introduced an exception to the principle of concluding a network connection agreement concerning the situation where another gas transmission network is to be connected, while for both networks the function of the system operator is the same energy undertaking for the transmission of gaseous fuels. In this case, the connecting and connecting entity is identical and therefore it is not possible to conclude a valid network connection agreement and to specify the elements listed in Article. Paragraph 7 2 energy laws. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 7 8 points 1 and 1a of the energy law in the draft version are changed in the way the charges for connection to the gas transmission network are calculated. In accordance with the applicable provisions, the merged entity shall bear 25% the actual expenditure incurred for the implementation of the connection. A change in the model assuming that the connection costs will be fully covered by the operator connected to the transmission network, avoids the low pressure gas customers being charged the connection costs to both the transmission network and the distribution network, while the customers connected to the transmission network do not bear the cost of connecting the customers to the distribution network. The proposed amendment will reduce the costs incurred by the transmission system operator for the implementation of terminal installations, allowing them to shift to infrastructure investments aimed at fully diversifying the supply of gas fuels to Poland. Well, I could give you a few more examples of changes in energy law. They didn't raise any controversy, they were accepted by the committee. I, too, request that this bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Marek Suski was authorised to present the position of the applicant for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u223	High Senate! Mr. Marshal! I'd like to thank the Senate for their work and ask for the bill. It is beneficial for the energy security of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of the applicants related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to say that this is an important law that regulates legal issues related to the existence of a Polish section of the Jamal pipeline. The transmission system operator Gas-System, which is the operator of the entire transmission network in the country, will also be a full operator on this section of the Jamaican pipeline. Thank you, senate, for really... Well, it was an approach, you could say. That's what my friend here tells me. It's a pro-state thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u226	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Gromko and the Swedish have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Time out? [[Voice from the room: Messages.]] Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u227	Messages. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence on the handling of requests submitted at the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State Security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency will take place today, 30 minutes after the announcement of the break in session, in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Commission on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-eighth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act of. Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws will take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment, in room 217. In turn, 30 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 217, a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held on the first reading of the draft resolution expressing opposition to the sale of Lotos. The joint meeting of the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Laws amending the Anti-drugs Act will take place today, 10 minutes after the adjournment is announced in room 182. And one last announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the proposals submitted at the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and some other laws will take place today, 15 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment, in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u228	Thank you very much... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm here about these messages. Isn't there a repeat of the same room? 30 minutes, room 217...]] [[Voice from the room: Because two committees are gathering...]] [[The two committees shall meet at the same time and place.]] [[The voice from the room: The first one was to be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's gonna be a text correction. There's a mistake here. Thank you, senator, for paying attention. Dismissed until 5:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 45 to 19 minutes 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u229	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, a few messages before we proceed to formal proceedings, because the situation is quite dynamic for obvious reasons. At the moment, there will be a proposal to complete the agenda. Also tomorrow will be proposals to complete the agenda, concerning the aid law for Ukrainians and a fairly simple law on regional transport, a law valid for local governments. Minister Weber asked for it, but he's not here today. Tomorrow will be a supplement. We will take care of this together with the help of the Ukrainians, which is currently the subject of a vote in the Sejm. That's it. Tomorrow morning there will be a meeting of the five joint committees. Later, from 11:30 to 2:00 p.m., there'll be a break. We'll start the session at 2:00. I would also like to inform you about the solemn assembly of Members and Senators. Tomorrow we will also have to complete the order with a one-sounding resolution on the anniversary of joining NATO. There was a consultation between the clubs, between the parliamentary wheels. The final shape is more or less ready. We're just going to change the Seym to the Senate. I should warn you, there will be such a vote. Since Saturday evening the Sejm will probably vote on the Homeland Defense Act, please prepare spiritually that on Wednesday, 16 March, there will be committee meetings, and on 17 March there will be a 1-day meeting on I hope so. Only this one point, the Homeland Defense Act. That's what I preconceived with you, Marshal Witek. If nothing changes, it will. So, on March 16th, there will be committees, and on March 17th... The current sitting is likely to be extended until 17 March. So many messages that I'm trying to keep you up to date. And at this point, we are now formally reopening the session. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution expressing opposition to the sale of Lotos and consider it as item 13 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Objection.]] Mr. Marshal Pop objects. I understand you're filing a motion against Marshal Borusewicz. [[Yes.]] We therefore proceed with the vote on my proposal to complete the agenda. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Raise your hand and press the right button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] We therefore proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution expressing opposition to the sale of Lotos. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 652, and the report I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 March, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission expressing opposition to Lotos' sale in order to consider it at first reading. The committees have examined this project and we can therefore proceed on it today. The government has made a decision, implemented by Orlen, to divide Lotus and privatize Lotus. This is a burden-bearing decision. The assets of this company, a very good company that has been invested and which is the most modern company of this type in Europe, are to be divided and sold to foreign contractors. The situation in which this decision was taken is different from that of the present. The situation has changed. Russia's aggression against Ukraine continues. There are indications that make you wonder how far this aggression will go. Therefore, the Lotus case, one of our refineries, is much more strategic than it was a few days ago. The division of this company into fragments, i.e. dismembering a great energy company, in this situation is dangerous and irresponsible. It is also dangerous and irresponsible to whom these fragments of dismembered Lotus are offered. They are offered for sale, for privatisation of Unimot company, operating mainly on the basis of oil business in relation to Belarusian companies. They are offered to the Hungarian MOL, which, of course, is managed by the Hungarian Government. He's in charge, but he's also in charge. In a situation where the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Prime Minister, behaves ambiguously against the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, against Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which has taken an unacceptable form in this part of Europe, Poland supports Ukraine. The territory of Poland is the main place of metastasis and support for the fighting Ukraine, there are food transports, aid, but also transports of weapons and military equipment necessary for Ukraine, so that this country, defending its independence and democracy, can continue to resist and oppose this barbarism in the middle of Europe. And the Hungarian government in this situation, Prime Minister Orbán and Foreign Minister Szijjártó declare that they will not pass through their territory, weapons or military equipment. What does that mean? This means that they leave Poland on this important issue. I mean, we have to put ourselves at risk. And we're putting ourselves in jeopardy. And this country, whose government declared itself as Poland's greatest friend, decides to say: no, we are not interested, we are doing business with Russia. Prime Minister Orbán a month ago during his visit to Moscow, where he met with President Putin in a situation where the case of aggression was already on the international wallpaper... We knew, our allies knew, and the Hungarian authorities also knew that there was a gathering of powerful Russian forces and that there would probably be an attack on Ukraine. In this situation, Prime Minister Orbán concluded a contract for the supply of Russian gas at very good prices. It shows he's an ally. Insecure in this regard. And we should consider... the Polish government should consider whether it should go further in this direction to sell much of the lotus to the Hungarian MOL. This is a different situation, I repeat, than it was six months ago or a year ago. Hungary has significant interests with Russia and does not withdraw from these interests. It's not just gas and extra gas purchases. It is the construction of the Turkish Stream connector, which additionally supports these serious amounts of gas. This is also a situation where the Hungarian government signed an investment agreement for a significant amount, which resulted in Russia building additional reactors at the Hungarian power plant Paks. All this makes our government think about continuing this privatisation, wondering what it could lead to. The Polish government refers to Saudi Aramco, but let's look at this Saudi Aramco is an elephant, and our companies are ants. And Saudi Aramco is being admitted to our market. It is to take over 30% of the Gdansk Refinery in which in recent years more than PLN 10 billion has been invested for just over PLN 1 billion. If someone thinks that this particular company and this country are so sure about their strategic interests, I will say that this company and this country have first of all interests, not friendships. The draft resolution draws attention to the fact that the situation has changed dramatically, that the strategic situation of Poland is already different than it was. And that is why a group of senators thinks that the Polish government should withdraw from this transaction, that this is not the time to dismember such a sensitive company, in a situation where gas weapons, oil is becoming more and more weapons, significant oil and gas are becoming more weapons in the hands of an aggressor. That is why I repeat that we should withdraw from this transaction, and in the resolution we are calling for it and that is what we are calling for. There are opportunities for the Polish government to withdraw from this bad and harmful transaction with its face. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and, at the same time, an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u232	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the marshal, the rapporteur. Mr. Marshal, I understand that at the moment it is so that Orlen and Lotus are generally in the hands of Polish people, I do not know to what extent the Treasury. What is the danger that, when selling to those entities that are mentioned in the resolution, a significant part of Poland's energy potential can be taken over by an entity associated with the country that is hostile to Poland? I don't want to name this country. Perhaps the marshal here would like to clarify this point, because I believe that this is the problem that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u233	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u234	Lotus is divided into fragments and, of course, neither Lotus nor the Treasury nor Orlen will have control over these fragments. At the moment, the shares of the State Treasury in Orlena are minority shares, while in Lotus The majority. In the event of Lotus stripping and Orlen taking over the remains, this situation will change. I mean, also in the case of the part that stays and will form Orlen with Orlen, this influence... Otherwise: the influence on the Lotus, in which the Treasury has the majority of shares, will cease, the Treasury will not have the majority of shares. To put it simply, he won't have it because Lotus won't exist. [[I'd still like to ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u235	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u236	But could there be a situation that one of the three entities that these parts, the components of Lotus potential will acquire, maybe later. sell, sell this part of the company, which will be connected with you even hostile Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u237	I understand your question. [[Yes, sir.]] I see. At the moment, Lotus is under state control. In a situation where it is cut and these pieces are sold to other companies, there will be no guarantee that they will not be disposed of further. And I am sure that Russian companies will pay any price to enter the Polish market to enter Poland and enter the European market.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u238	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am, of course, against this resolution and will vote against it for many reasons. I'll start with the procedures that are in this case. maybe not the most important, but it is also worth saying a few words about them. Well, this resolution was brought in a completely sudden manner, as it has often been in the Legislative Committee recently, Mr Kwiatkowski likes to surprise us with committee meetings at eight in the morning or with resolutions at half past eight in the evening. Busy guy. This resolution was, by a strange coincidence, included in the Legislative Commission, not in the Economic Committee. In the case of the Committee on Economic Affairs, if the meeting were to be convened in good time, experts, Orlen representatives, Lotus representatives, representatives of the Polish government, independent experts could be invited to hold a substantive discussion which could have its place in the Senate as much as possible. Then we could really talk, debate the merger, its meaning, its details, its cost-effectiveness, etc., etc. But, of course, that is not the purpose of this resolution, because, as my colleagues have strongly stressed at the committee meeting, this is a typical political resolution. This is a typical Donald Tusk to the Senate, Donald Tusk, who, a few days ago, stood here, where only Marshal Grodzki usually speaks, and gave this to his usual twisted, very deceitful, as always, message, typing the Lotus merger into the Ukrainian-Russian conflict. It's very dangerous, it's very demagogical, and if it's demagogical, I'll show you right now. You are talking at this point about Hungary as a particularly pro-Russian country. But if we were to follow this line of thinking, we would have to say consistently about the pro-Russianness of Germany, building Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, about the pro-Russianness of France, which is one of the largest economic partners in Russia, etc., etc. You can see how dangerous this road is and how much demagogy is in it, how much populism is in it. So let us not take advantage of this unprecedented situation, which is war, the Russian aggression on Ukraine, which is a great threat of world peace at this moment, to such a typical party game, typically political. You are discrediting the institution itself of the Senate resolution. That's what we were talking about. These resolutions are simply meaningless, and they serve nothing good, and if they serve anything, they present a false image of Poland and the world and this constant fight against the Polish government. This resolution is lying and imprecise in its title. There is no Lotus sale, it has been prepared since 2018 the merger of Lotus with Orlen. In view of the decisions of the European Commission in 2020, which presented the so-called 'European Commission'. the remedial measures that must be met before the merger so that the new entity does not have a very dominant position on the market are an obligation to sell 80% of the Lotus station, sell 30% of the shares in the Gdansk Refinery and sell 9 fuel warehouses to an independent logistics operator. It's a decision. very deeply thought out. This is a decision that was made almost unanimously by Lotus shareholder, business decision, cost-effective decision. And you spoke very honestly about this cost-effectiveness a few days ago, Mr. President Obajtek. I'll give you a piece of his speech. Because the state of this merger, also from the economic side, is simply misconstruing. In the context of the emerging voices concerning the merger of PKN Orlen and the Lotos Group, we remind you that the merger process and the formation of one group is a Polish state right. Only one strong multi-energy group can guarantee the security of the national economy in the field of fuel and energy. The finalization of the process will strengthen energy security not only of Poland, but of the whole region. The foundation of the merger of PKN Orlen with Lotus Group is the agreement with Saudi Aramco. It means strengthening the relationship of PKN Orlen with a stable partner, the largest fuel company in the world, with huge experience and technologies that will allow for the further dynamic development of the combined company. The key is the development of petrochemicals. The Lotus Group will benefit from this, whose activities are mainly based on one refinery. We would like to remind you that more than 30 refineries have been closed in Europe since 2008, including 5 since the start of the pandemic, i.e. 2020. Cooperation with Saudi Aramco also means increasing oil supply. Deliveries from the Arabian direction, after being combined with the Lotus Group, will reach as much as 45% the total demand of the new Orlen Group. For the company it is a source of quality-quality oil, and from the point of view of the Polish economy further diversification of supply directions. The transaction with MOL concerns only the exchange of stations and opens the entry of the Orlen Group to the Hungarian and Slovak markets. The structure of the transaction fully protects us from further uncontrolled disposal of assets by MOL and ensures the stability of the Polish market. The transaction was approved by 85% Lotus shareholders I've already mentioned that. I quote further: "In the negotiation of remedial measures in the area of detail, our main objective from the very beginning remained the guarantee of geographical expansion. The transaction with MOL means the entry of PKN Orlen into new markets. By exchanging assets, we get 144 gas stations in Hungary, and we expand the network in Slovakia by 41 new facilities. In total, there are as many as 185 stations supporting the sale and strengthening the brand's recognition. So you can see that this decision is well thought out, in very many respects economically beneficial. And you just have to finalize it, you have to finish this process. How would you imagine at this point, on the finish line, turning this process around, blocking it, ending it? Huge costs, huge perturbations, great anxiety in the markets, etc., etc. So, to conclude, I ask you very much to finally complete this festival of such political, party resolutions of Donald Tusk in the Senate, because they do not serve anything good, especially in this very difficult situation. You have a false picture of reality in Poland, a false picture of the rule of law and justice, a false assessment of this situation. And at all costs, you try to push this alternate reality in such resolutions. This is probably due to a psychological mechanism called transference. Because the state remembers very well the effects of your governments. Because this situation that we are dealing with today in Europe is also the bankruptcy of the long-term policy advocated by Donald Tusk, the Civic Platform, Angela Merkel and other European decision-makers... [[Voice from the hall: Finish your vagina, spare shame!]] ...and other European decision-makers... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...who misjudged Putin for many years, his true intentions, his intentions. And you mocked those who actually judged this situation and even died for it. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, yes, they died.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u240	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that these emotions are unnecessary in this resolution, because we need a rational reflection on the very idea of consolidating fuel companies in Poland. Perhaps the premise of this consolidation was worth considering and even studying activities, but since the European Commission imposed such draconian conditions that it was necessary to de facto a significant part of Orlen... sorry, Lotus put for sale, it was necessary to consider whether the skin is worth expeditions, whether the whole operation presents greater risks than the potential benefits that are presented propagandically during this merger. Well, High Izbo, if those parts of the Lotus that are to be disposed of, and this is a significant potential for gas stations... I will remind you that Orlen probably has about 1 thousand 500 stations in Poland at the moment, Lotos, 411. The others, the other companies have their pot, and I'm not going to exchange it now. Anyway, these 411 Lotus stations are in very good locations. I know what I'm saying, because I was an employee of Orlen, who worked on the locations of new fuel stations before I became a senator, so before 2011, and I know how tough it was to compete between both of these companies to get good fuel stations, especially on modernized roads, so e-mails and motorways. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the whole issue, and I will not bore the High House with such matters. In general, ILOs, traveling sites, and building fuel stations at ILOs... From a business point of view, it's not that profitable, but it's about prestige. Someone takes the highway and sees Lotus, Orlen, other companies, etc., etc. This is brand building. 'Cause the rent on the land... As far as such an ILO is concerned, about 3 hectares of land must be leased, because there must be a place for trucks, rest, infrastructure, etc., etc. So that between these two companies there was a ruthless struggle to get these, I would say, attractive, prestigious locations of the station. This was done by modernising the old stations because the environmental safety regulations, the technical conditions for the tanks in which the fuel is stored, the raw material which is traded, etc., etc. were changing. Those upgrades that were happening... Because if we remember... To this day, let's say some people in Poland say: I'm going to the CPN to fill up. Yes? Well, it's just an old habit of saying "CPN." Right? It's still out there somewhere. But really the transition from CPN to Orlen brand is a great graphic design, great name, marketing absolutely hit the jackpot ♪ or Lotus... ♪ What do these stations look like today, and what did they look like 15 and 20 years ago? This is a completely different era, we live in a completely different reality. And that's the great effort of those companies that focused on it. I'm going back to the whole point now. Well, High Izbo, if the European Commission has set such conditions for this merger, it may have been necessary either to withdraw from this project after examining the case, or to consider whether an entity not controlled by Poland should acquire this part, rather than foreign entities, which, as a result of ownership transformations and other activities, economics, business, because there are a whole range of risks which are associated with it, can de facto lead to the fact that a large part of the fuel segment in Poland being taken over or controlled, I want to express my thought well. By the State, which will use it for its political and other purposes, against Poland and against Polish citizens. This is a very serious problem. That's why I said that perhaps the skin is not worth the expedition, because so far, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz spoke about it... Orlen: the share of more than 30%, but in fact it is the control of the State Treasury. Lotus: the share of the State Treasury over 50%, de facto control... So 2 competing entities are de facto controlled by the Polish State. But it is also important to remember that Lotus has been recapitalised, huge investments have been made. When you drive into Gdansk, you can see the Lotus refinery. It's amazing, it's amazing how modern this infrastructure is that processes oil. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have very much to say about this principle, because I think gigantomania and the willingness to build, and such eectism, and, well, propaganda about really thinking about all aspects of such an important sector of economic life, especially in such a difficult political situation as we have been in since 24 February. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[He's good. He's gone to the right side.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After hearing one of the senators speak, I would like to say that the Himalayas of hypocrisy are not enough to describe and address this statement. I consciously do not mention his name so that he has no reason to speak to me. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Senators of the PiS demanded the statements of experts, so I will quote one of the experts. I will repeat what I said at the committee meeting, the words of an expert who was the Minister of Economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, and until recently he was the President of PGNiG, Piotr Wozniak. A few days ago, Piotr Wozniak at the meeting of Club Ronina described why Russia decided to invade Ukraine. She couldn't use the gas as a weapon against her, so she had to reach for the military tools, said Piotr Wozniak. He said that North Stream 1, North Stream 2, Turkish Stream were supposed to balance, with interest, transport across Ukraine and thus cut Ukraine off from gas supplies. He said, and I quote, this plan didn't work, so it ended with an invasion. These are the words of Peter Wozniak. He said that in 2020 MOL company, which we are talking about today, decided to build an interconnector between Serbia and Hungary and between Hungary and Austria, and Austria is the destination country of gas supply from Russia. There's Baumgarten, a huge hub for Russian gas distribution across Western Europe. It's not a real hub, because it's a place where different gas streams from different suppliers meet. In 2020, MOL agreed to the Turkish Stream route, taking the effort to expand the transmission network. This is a quote from Peter Wozniak. In fact, he clearly states the role this particular company plays in the process concerning among others. Russia's aggression against Ukraine. And today this company is going to own part of the Lotus. But there are also such declarations that the 30% I want him to buy a big company from Saudi Arabia. Well, here's the news from today: Saudi Arabia's leader refused to talk to Joe Biden, the President of the United States. The President of the United States wanted to ask them to increase their oil production in order to lower world oil prices. Turns out they're not interested in that kind of conversation. So, excuse me, who do we want to sell, hand over Orlen's shares? A company that wants to use oil blackmail to influence the price of oil. Does Orlen and the government really care about that? It's really hard... Mr. Obajtek was the authority here. And I wonder how Mr. Obajtek can be an authority. After all, Mr. Obejtek has no access to the basic documents. "Secret, classified, classified, top secret." If he has no basic knowledge, how can he be viewed as an authority? How can you quote it and say that it is someone who will carry out operations of strategic importance for the Polish state, important for Poles now and in the future. Other strange things are happening with the involvement of Russian companies. Because oil can be delivered to Poland in two ways at the moment: by the oil pipeline, Friendship, directly from Russia, or by Naftoport in Gdansk. At any time, the oil cock can be twisted, and Naftoport in Gdańsk is modernising the Russian company. This company is registered in Poland, but the owners are Russians. We really are not afraid that in such a difficult situation in which Europe, the world, Poland, is in today's situation, can there be sabotage here? We really don't think about it, we don't care about securing basic Polish interests? And if I were to tell you about MOL, about all the gas stories, about the Petroleum, that it was just coincidences... Then I'll ask about Maya, about Orlen in Maya. Do you know who today is modernising the great refinery in Lithuania owned by Orlen? Well, it's a company related to Gazprom. Is this just a coincidence? Is this really a coincidence? Don't you see that in the PiS? You really can't see that? You can say things, you can say that Germany... Only no one wants to sell Lotus to the Germans. There's no such thing as a thesis here at all. You're building this theory on a foundation that doesn't exist. You want to sell Lotus, and you only deal with Russia's interests. I read Wozniak's statement, which describes how MOL is linked to Russian gas interests. Why did Russia fail to put pressure on Ukraine? Well, we managed to avoid gas blackmail in Ukraine. It's easy to find out. Naftoport is modernised by the Russians, Możejki by a company associated with Gazprom, and Obajtek is not allowed for any documents. Is that supposed to be authority? Aren't you ashamed of that? Are you really not ashamed? Court of State It awaits all those who will carry out this process to the end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I did not intend to speak because the draft resolution actually says everything that should appear in this matter in public space. It's just that this is our state right, but Marshal Pop provoked me to speak and to make a brief, polemic statement to this statement. Mr. Marshal was gracious to say that in some extratribe we are introducing a draft resolution to the High House on which we are debating. Well, in extraordinary mode, because the situation is extraordinary and requires extraordinary moves that will increase our security, also energy security. Therefore, the project is processed in such a fast manner, because this is the national and state interest of Poland at the moment. Mr. Marshal said that the merger of Orlen with Lotus is some very good project. First of all, this is not a merger, because the merger is an exchange of shares in which 2 companies share equally, in spite of different potentials, despite various assets, exchange shares and remain independent entities, which simply have each other's shares. This would increase the energy security of Poland. May I remind you that Lotus is 57% State Treasury shares and Orlena shares That's 27%, I'm guessing. Take-over Because that's the way it should be said, some say the hostile takeover of Lotus by Orlen doesn't increase the State Treasury's share or one share. Thus, the only company that can conduct a fully controlled energy and fuel market policy, Lotus, is taken over by another company where the Treasury has only 27% shares. Of course, President Obajtek made sure that his colleague from Pcimia, Mrs. Zofia Paryla, became president of Lotus. This, of course, then facilitated all actions and despite the protests of trade unions, all trade unions in Lotus, this operation took place in front of our eyes, despite the opposition of the MPs from Pomerania. President Obajtek in a power way, you can say, megalomaniac talked about the need to take over the merger, but this is a takeover. In order to compete with major companies such as Shell or BP. This is, of course, megalomania, because there's no way to compete with such tycoons. It's just about taking over the company to create a big conglomerate, a little bit of a country from the Polish People's Republic when they were united. We remember that. Now there will be one big company, which, apart from the fact that it already has a publishing activity, will also take over Lotus in such a possessive way, which is a very important function from the point of view of Pomerania's economic development, actually treating it as a fuel processing plant. That will soon be Lotus status. There was talk of a state of mind. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senators, the reason of the state is the energy security of Poland at the moment, because this is an element of state security at all. Giving businesses and companies that are undoubtedly under the influence... some believe that they are directed at all, not only politically inspired, but directed by people who cooperate closely, friends with the aggressor, with Putin, is just... The words of the state treason have already been said here. Yes, in terms of war abroad, when there is a horrible barbaric assault in front of our eyes, aggression against our neighbour, where the soldiers sent by Putin killed children, defenseless women, giving up our important company, a strategic enterprise for half free, is simply a misunderstanding. Under conditions of war, we must act in an extremely cautious manner under conditions of danger to our security. And there's nothing to prevent this silly transaction from happening. And also polemic. Marshal Borusewicz already mentioned this, but... Marshal Pęk was gracious to say that it is beneficial from the point of view of Orlen's entry into the external markets, including the opening of new fuel stations in our neighbours. So from the point of view... Here I will quote part of the draft resolution: from the interest point of view of the Treasury, this transaction is also not justified. The basic condition for mergers is to gain an additional market share. With the planned transaction, the market share of the Polish company would be reduced and its dynamic fragment transferred to foreign companies. For 30% of the refinery in which PLN 10 billion has been invested in the last 16 years, the Treasury is to receive PLN 1.15 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just... It doesn't defend itself in any logical way. This is just ridiculous. Orlen, on the other hand, would sell 417 well-functioning, large Lotus petrol stations In other words, modern stations have been built in recent years. And he would have purchased 185 stations in Hungary and Slovakia in a much worse standard. It wouldn't be expansion, but degradation. Mr. Marshal Pęk, you spoke about Donald Tusk, who, in your opinion, did not contribute to some particular aspect to the protection of the Polish energy market. On the contrary! Lotus still worked great today. It was developing great. If we can talk ad personam about actions in recent weeks of representatives of Poland, then about representatives of the Polish government, who in the middle of January and at the end of last year conducted or had very lively contacts with Western European politicians, who are said to be friends of Putin. Did Lotos announce in mid-January this year the will to sell information to MOL, whose CEOs are close to friends and with Orbán, and with Russian friends, already took place during the period during which Poland could have had news that aggression was being prepared? Was she in possession of intelligence about Russia's serious aggression against Poland? If that was the case, it is not the responsibility of President Obejtek, because he should stop the transaction from being harmful from the point of view of Poland's security. These questions will have to be answered, because they simply hit our safety, but also our sense of responsibility for the work in the High House. This draft resolution is an expression of responsibility for the security of Poland. I think we should express it together, especially in a situation where representatives of the highest political authorities in Poland did not always effectively hide their sympathies connected with friends in Hungary or beyond our eastern border. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are breakthroughs in history, moments that change its course. For our great-grandfathers such a moment was the 28th June 1914 and the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand in Sarajevo. For our grandparents it was September 1, 1939 and then of course 1945, the division of Europe. For us, for our generation, it was undoubtedly 1989, Autumn of the Peoples, great rises, initiated in Poland, societies of Central and Eastern Europe against communist totalitarianism and consequently, firstly, the liberation of our part of Europe, including Poland, from the yoke of Russian communism, and secondly, the fall of communism throughout the globe except North Korea and Cuba. 24 February 2022 is another such date. Nothing will be the same in political relations, in country and block strategies, in economic relations. We have to learn from this. The representative of the ruling party, PiS, presented here quite chaotic calculations and quotations. He was quoting some old documents supposedly about selling most of Lotus to foreign companies because that's what you have to call it. It is beneficial for Polish interests. This, of course, is absurd and absurd also before 24 February, as my colleagues have proved and what we prove in the draft of this resolution. I'll remind you, it's raining here, but I'll remind you. Only one number: for 30% of the refinery, in which in recent years the Polish state has invested more than PLN 10 billion in investments, for 1/3 of the refinery we are going to get just over 1 billion. Completely absurd. But, High Izbo, the main reason why today we have to protest against this sale, just appeared on February 24, 2022. It is this extraordinary, brutal, unprovoked aggression, attacking Russia on our nearest neighbour, Ukraine. These sufferings of millions already, this migration of peoples, immigrants, mostly immigrants with children, people fleeing bombs that come to us. This is the biggest wave of sanctions on any country in the history of the world, which is already fortunately ruining the economy of an aggressor. This is finally a strengthening of the North Atlantic Alliance and a re-evaluation of the importance of the European Union and its value. And for their ambition to join the European Union today Ukrainians suffer because of the fact that they want to go to the West, NATO and the European Union was the main cause of Wladimir Putin's violent, criminal aggression. Ladies and gentlemen, lessons must be learned from all this. From all this country, political blocks, international organizations are already drawing conclusions. This is the moment of truth. Yes, most countries west of us were extremely naive in thinking about what Russia is. And today we see that although not in a perfect way, but in a fundamental way they change their policies towards Russia. No one would have thought that Germans They are bound by their post-war pacifism and pursuing their national interests in a completely different way today they will send anti-tank weapons to Ukraine, a weapon that already works there, because you can see it from the pictures. On the Ukrainian side, of course. It already destroys Russian tanks. No one would have thought that such a ruining Russian economy, common sanctions of the European Union and America are possible to a large extent. There's one country, one country! - who doesn't join this common front, or who doesn't join the common front to a minimum. This country, which is in the European Union and NATO, is called Hungary. Unlike the Germans you mentioned, he did not redefine his policy. A few examples. On the day of Russia's aggression on Ukraine Prime Minister Orbán said.We won't send weapons to Ukraine, even though this was the decision of the North Atlantic Alliance on that day, i.e. We're all sending weapons to Ukraine together. Hungary refused to do so. Even Spain, which really has little interest in our region, after a few days of hesitation did so. Hungary didn't do it. After 10 days of the bloody campaign of Putin in Ukraine, what does the Prime Minister of Hungary say and what is already directly against Polish interests, is the inclusion not only in rhetoric, but in the whole strategy of Kremlin and Putin? It says that it is Polish wine, because it is Poland that wants to move the border of the West to Russia, while Russia has its supposedly true interests in order for Ukraine to be neutral. Well, of course, the myth that Russia only wants Ukraine to be neutral and not to enter NATO is a lie of Putin repeated by Orbán, because we see what is happening in Belarus, which Putin has completely scaled over the past years and from which he sent rockets and troops to Ukraine. Russia does not want neutrality in its environment, it wants full subjection. One man who does not understand it in the West today is Orbán, in addition attacking Poland. Not later than the day before yesterday, Prime Minister of Hungary, Mr Orbán, signed two of his regulations: firstly, the ban on NATO troops stationed east of the Danube, secondly, the ban on the transport of weapons across Hungary's territory for Ukraine. Again: against Ukraine, according to Russian interests. This puts NATO's interests at stake, at the heart of our security. Finally, yesterday, Orbán strongly said, "I am quoting here again, and it is necessary to maintain the import of gas and oil from Russia to Europe, that Hungary will veto such ideas, which many European countries already support, although they did not support them until two weeks ago. They're not all in favour yet, but that's what we need to work on. And Orbán says it's not the right thing to do. It's been said, ladies and gentlemen, a lot about this. In particular, Senator Gawłowski said that. What MOL is, that is, a large fuel company operating in Europe controlled by the Hungarian Government. In short: today it is a fuel, energy trojan horse of Russia on our continent. On 24 February 2022 history has changed and lessons have to be learned. I am very pleased that in us in Poland we draw these conclusions, that we want to increase the percentage, the amount of expenditure on defence. It's the right thing to do. I hope that these measures will also be much better spent than they have been in recent years. [[Timer signal]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. Another conclusion is that we need to be tighter in NATO and we need to be tighter in the European Union. That the European Union's immigration policy must be more active, and I am glad that those who said a few years ago that we did not need it. At that time, we did not want to welcome mothers with children, and today we ask that mothers with children who come to us with millions of dollars also accept other countries. And that's the right thing to do. But you also need, ladies and gentlemen, to redefine alliances or so-called. alliances, that is, who was our friend and who is he really, and how big interests are to look, big transactions, especially transactions in the energy market. Ladies and gentlemen, history is back. Today you can stand on the side of the Polish state and block this completely contradictory transaction or you can stand on the side of the swindlers, businessmen of Mr Orbán with Mr Obajtek and continue to go into this disgraceful for Poland and extremely harmful transaction, or actually sale to foreign companies of the great Polish refinery. When history comes back, you can take the right side, you can also take the wrong side. I am convinced that the Senate of the Republic will stand on the good side and support this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully subscribe to the opinions that my colleagues had previously given, i.e. Senator Bosacki, Senator Rybicki, Senator Gawłowski, and under the words of Marshal Borusewicz. But I'd like to draw your attention to another element that we're missing here for everyone, or perhaps one that we're not really paying attention to. It seems that... Both of the companies Lotos and Orlen are companies controlled by the State Treasury. The shares or shares of the State Treasury in Lotus amount to more than 50%, and the control of the State Treasury in Orlena is such that the State Treasury in practice dominates this company. Today we want to bring about such a situation, not us, and the government wants to bring about such a situation that control over these companies of the Treasury will be taken over to a greater extent by other foreign companies. I am not against privatisation, but my question is how much this decision is in the interests of consumers. Thanks to this operation, will the prices of fuel at stations in Poland be reduced if the sale is offered here? Will the introduction of a Hungarian company, which is to take over a large part of petrol stations in Poland, lead to lower fuel prices at petrol stations than they are today? That should be, it seems, a fundamental question. The point is whether this whole operation will be done in the interests of the citizens. Of course, that's not gonna happen, because those records that are still here and that Mr. Obajtek was talking about... I'd like to say a few words about him, not criticizing a man, because I don't know him very well, once I had the chance to meet Mr. Obajtek. I'll talk about it in a minute. I'll ask questions. And this operation will lead to the fact that the fuel market in Poland will be even more monopolised and controlled by powerful companies, which in practice will lead to the fact that fuel prices in Poland will be much higher. Orlen's been making very high profits over the last few years. We could say that we are happy about this, but after all, these profits are achieved in an absolutely simple way. Being president of a company like Orlen or other powerful companies that are dominant... In fact, it can be said that such a president sleeps quietly, because prices can be set at the maximum level that is acceptable to citizens, so that they do not rebel like for example. citizens in Kazakhstan against the rise in gas prices to cars, where there has been a great revolt. So you can try to do whatever you want, right on top of the citizens. And those fuel prices at the gas stations were still rising. On 25 March 2021, I asked the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, and I wanted to tell the Minister of the Treasury of the State. State-owned assets If there is any control over the costs in the companies of the Treasury, such as Orlen, whether there is any control over the price level. Of course, I was told in a simple way by commercial company law that I didn't, because these are commercial law companies, and there are supervisory boards and they decide how it all works. And of course that's probably a formal and legitimate answer. But the fact that prices were rising at the time, and today in a special way... The price of petrol at the gas station in my town, at Orlen station, during the day changed three times, and it was 50 gr, reaching yesterday morning as I was driving to the railway station, almost 7 PLN 50 gr, exactly 7.46 gr. The day before it was 70 gr less. And of course, he blames himself for everything... Today I don't know what the prices are anymore. [[8.16.]] 8.16. And you blame Russia, Putin and everyone else. Of course, there's a lot of truth in that, too. But what I'm going to ask you is, does anyone control how this money is spent? I always say in a classic way: the fact that we pay such a price for fuel today is, of course, the international situation, but also the fact that 3 billion PLN can be thrown into the mud, saying that we are building a power plant in Ostrołęka and then, the next day, we had all these devices and fit into the cost somewhere. It's just that today is completely out of control. It's selling today, and... On the occasion of one of these transactions, President Obajtek said that his strategic partner would be the one who would buy part of the Lotus. So what, there's going to be an even bigger... Will the Polish market be monopolized in practice? So these prices at petrol stations for citizens are going to rise even more radically? And you're gonna do that on the pretext that we're building something that's gonna be some kind of European champion? You have such ambitions that you want to be the greatest in the world, in Europe, you don't know where... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You just need to manage what is in Poland well, and to make sure that you, first of all, control costs in companies, do not waste money on various thoughtless, harmful investments. It's thoughtless. And second of all, the point is that you just stand up to people who are somehow smart... President Obejtek was the authority today. I'm beginning to finish this speech. And this is some weird way... Today, man becomes an authority only because he will receive a position. Before that, he was just a simple man, okay, maybe even a good carpenter, carpenter, gate. But when he becomes president of a company called Orlen, he becomes an authority too. Only because he got the title. Come on, guys, does this have anything to do with reality? Man is a professor, learns, studies, writes, etc., builds his authority over the years, and here every day he becomes an authority and he is quoted, shown in documents. Maybe someday, in 20 years, he'll be some kind of authority. But today? And it's easy for you in PiS to become an authority. It is simply enough that President Kaczyński will appoint someone for a position, and that someone who may and may be a valuable man, I do not deny it, immediately the next day becomes someone who can decide the fate of Poland and even wants to decide the fate of Europe. It's just that there's no sense of anything here. The request to you is: please just pay attention to what you are trying to do here with this unfortunate Lotus and Orlen. Thinking only that an empire will be built, that Poland will not know what power, and Orlen will be a world champion, is harming the Polish economy. And in the first place, people get hurt because we, consumers, are just going to pay for this operation at gas stations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u249	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Locksmith. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u250	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The resolution we are discussing basically contains two areas. One includes, in my opinion, a legitimate discussion about an economic undertaking that is projected on geopolitical issues, because the project is indeed large and international. The second area in which I would like to focus would not have to appear in this resolution, but the author state tends to include such issues in such resolutions, this is such a condescending and critical approach to Prime Minister Orbán, but generally to the whole Hungarian nation, because Hungary is mentioned there. I think this is a practice we should avoid in the Senate. We have already adopted a resolution in which we taught the British that they had been deceived about the Brexit. I don't think this is the place for that kind of talk. I will be happy to share my opinion on Viktor Orbán with each of you, but I will not do it out of this tribune, because this chamber is not from this, and it will be an opinion that you will probably like. Why should this not be the case? I think any wise man can understand that. But if anybody has any problems, I'm gonna make a point and introduce them. Namely, instead of the second paragraph, please look at the second paragraph of that resolution. I'm going to put in an almost one-sounding text in which I'm going to convert Hungary to Germany. Here's what's going to happen. This is my proposed amendment. It has direct links with the Russian company Gazprom in the project Nord Stream, and at the same time Germany has taken an ambiguous stance towards Russia, although it has started aggression against Ukraine and commits war crimes. German government Olaf Scholza not only opposed the blockade of the SWIFT system, supported by, inter alia, an initiative. by Hungary, but it maintains the functioning of this system vis-à-vis two Russian banks, Sberbank and Gazprombank, de facto financing Putin's war, which weakens the European Union, which is the foundation of Poland's security. That ending's already... [[And we're selling to the Germans?]] Did I interrupt you? You've had a very controversial speech, and yet I've endured it. So, if you'd like to hang in there... So... I understand that this kind of amendment will cause the whole text of the resolution to be a little shaky, and maybe even lose the sense that you would like to give it, but it is not the point that you want in this resolution. Tomorrow we'll vote her out, and the day after tomorrow, everyone will forget about her. I therefore think that it will not be a great violation of the Rules of Procedure if I report this amendment and you may have a reflection at the committee meeting that, however, this resolution should be withdrawn. [[MOL is German?]] Thank you very much... And finally, I'd like to talk about the flood. Because here it was said that the German side had a reflection in contrast to the Hungarian side. Ladies and gentlemen, the inspiration for me to speak was not this discussion. The inspiration is the information given by the German "Die Welt", not the tabloid, from today on about the statements of the Ukrainian ambassador in Germany, which reads as follows: my President The Ukrainian president called the chancellor of Germany and as if he was talking to the wall. Thank you very much. [[What do the Germans have to do with it? Is MOL German?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u251	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski. [[BASF is German.]] [[What does BASF have to do with this?]] [[Nord Stream.]] [[Voice from the room: But this is MOL.]] [[What does Nord Stream have to do with Orlen?]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I would very much like to ask for silence.]] I'm gonna go over it in part, I mean. I will make some of the thesis that was presented at the committee meeting, but I think those who have survived so far and listen to us deserve to be presented to them. Line one. Ladies and gentlemen, we in resolutions should use the official terminology, as we say the Senate of the Republic of Poland, as we operate with full names. Well, the full name of the company, which is commonly called Lotus, is the Lotos SA Group. This is an oil company. The text of the Senate resolution should include the full name of the company at least once. I have already talked about the depreciation of the institutions of the Senate resolutions several times from this speaker. We have already reached such a level that practically they are actually, as someone here said, party positions. I agree with that. This is the position of the Senate majority, which instead of presenting them e.g. against the coat of arms of the Senate, by the flags, tries to put this position in the shape of a Senate resolution and vote by a small majority. This has nothing to do with the idea of a Senate resolution, really. This was not how the idea of Senate resolution was understood by the authors of the Senate. Here, of course, the majority went even further, i.e. it exceeds its competence. The phenomena we're talking about are one thing, but the act of merger of 2 companies is the scope of executive power, I repeat, that's the scope. the executive authority, not the legislative authority. And even if it's because of that... Well, if you wanted to adopt such a resolution, then you had to ask those who are responsible for the executive power in Poland, are the executive authority and are responsible for this merger, for their position and facts, at least 2 Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because in the text of this resolution there are statements which in my opinion violate the good interest of Poland and its international position, as well as the Ministry of State Assets in the field of mergers that you write about. Both during the committee meeting and here, there were votes that depreciated Hungary's position, mainly in the context of the conflict. Okay, let's get this straight. Russia's invasion, the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine. Yes, but the position of other countries that are, or at least are trying to make a greater impression on the international arena was similar. Maybe it's changed. We'll see about that. As an example, I gave the Germans here. To accuse Hungarians that they don't want to be a weapons transport hub for Ukraine... What can be said about a country that didn't want to hand over any weapons to Ukraine at all, even the one owned by another country, Estonia? At the meeting of the committee, there was a charge that Hungarians issued passports to Hungarian citizens of Ukraine from Zakarpacie. But Germany in Poland for 33 years... [[Leave those Germans alone. God, you can't hear that.]] Don't call in vain, man... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, really, sign up, there'll be polemics.]] [[What do you want with these Germans?]] [[Voice from the room: These are opinions.]] I give examples. Well, Germany in Poland has been doing similar operations for 33 years, namely to issue German passports in their consulates, among others. at the Opole Consulate. Well, if it's reprehensible for Hungary to do it, it's equally reprehensible, or perhaps even more so, what the Germans are doing. I believe that using arguments such as those made in relation to Hungary, that is, to put it mildly, to apply double standards. Some countries can be told something, and some can't, no, because they're bigger and they're friends by definition. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is what Well, it just so happens that I've read it a moment ago, disqualifies this resolution... [[Voice from the room: This resolution.]] ...this text... this resolution, rightly. What disqualifies this text in a categoric way? Namely I recommend to you the portal Trojmiasto.pl. There's an article on the "Business" page, should we look again at the merger of Orlen with Lotus because of the war? Half of the text of the proposed resolution is simply a copy-paste from this article. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the Senate has ever had to use other people's thoughts like this before. If it's mentioned, he'll point to the author, yes... But no one's done it so far. Discredit, embarrassment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm gonna say this... Maybe I'll quote that because it doesn't convince you. These are the quotes from the resolution. Hungary has taken an inconclusive position with regard to Russia. It's the same thing here. The Hungarian company MOL has direct links with Russian companies. It's a perfect fit. [[A voice from the room: How wise, then why...]] Yeah, especially the word for word. We'd have to run some kind of anti-Plagiarism program. Saudi Aramco also maintains a broad business relationship with Russian companies. And here: Saudi Aramco also maintains a broad business relationship with Russian companies. The company Unimot operates mainly on the basis of business relations with Belarusian companies. Unimot, on the other hand, operates mainly... Oh, there's a difference. I'm sorry. Someone put something in, some intellectual input can be seen. In turn Unimot operates mainly on the basis of business relations with Belarusian companies. That's the second paragraph. Most of the third subparagraph is Sorry for the expression, I'm a teacher Fucked from this article. Let me remind you that the article is earlier, March 4th, and the project is dated March 9th. The cause-effect relationships are pretty clear here. Ladies and gentlemen, as you write such resolutions, In quotes, of course. Just write it yourself, from each other. Don't die because it's a shame. This is a disgrace to the authors, to those who signed it, to the majority who voted for it. Well, not for the Senate, because I don't think the Senate should be involved in anything like this. And among others. In connection with this last information, that we are simply dealing with a public plagiarism, I am applying for the rejection of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u253	Please take the floor of Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, I had no intention of speaking either. It seemed to me that in a situation where behind our eastern border there was a war, when Russia criminally assaulted her neighbor and killed women and children, destroyed their property, we would be able to adopt certain resolutions here, adopt certain laws and reevaluate certain alliances. It seems natural in a war situation. And that's the first line. I thought I was considering what the president and the government did. The situation concerning the Lotos-MOL case is irrational for me. We can talk about the economic situation, we can talk about business or losing business, but in the face of this tragedy, this war, it doesn't matter. Today we have to think about the Polish state right, to think politically about our alliances. On February 24, Orbán said he wouldn't send weapons to Ukraine. Then he accused Poland of moving the border of the West. Then he banned NATO troops from stationing and transporting weapons to Ukraine. He said he was going to oppose the embargo on gas and oil imports. Isn't that enough? Isn't that enough? The Hungarian media say that Russia is conducting a special military operation, that in principle this war is the fault of the Ukrainians themselves. A month before this war, Prime Minister Orbán visited Vladimir Putin in Moscow. Even before the war, he claimed... I mean, after the outbreak of this war, he said that the reason is NATO's expansion east, which was increasingly disliked Russia, because Russia, to feel safe, must be surrounded by a neutral zone. Such a poor Russian. I feel so uncomfortable having us in NATO behind my back. Because I remind you that Putin's demands on NATO were not just about Ukraine. They also concerned Poland. Therefore, I would think very deeply whether this merger, this takeover... or simply not to postpone, at least during the time of the decision, as was proposed. I also remind you that all global companies have decided to end their cooperation with Russian companies. This was done by the BMW, stopping production in Kaliningrad and exporting cars to Russia, by BP, which sold 20% shares in Rosnieft, made by ExxonMobil, Schell, Boeing, Apple. Does our Orlen have to do business with MOL, which is linked to Russian capital? Why? There are situations. It's already been said today. In which one has to stand on one side. There's good on one side, there's evil on the other side. And we have to make the right decision. Such collaborating with a person, with people... with a country at the head of which is a person who is unable to take a stand on one side, who is lurking, who is looking for his interests, which is in an increasingly wide range, is certainly not in Poland's interest. And I appeal to the senators, the Senators of Law and Justice, that in this difficult situation, when Poland is also threatened... Because it's threatened, today in an indirect way, because we're all going to pay the price of this war, and that's what it takes, but tomorrow we can be threatened directly. And that should be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Bogucki, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Can you hear me? [[Yeah, it's good.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. 'Cause it can be different with range. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna answer the question that came up in the last speech: why? The question is, why does BP have 20,000 stations instead of 1,000 or 500? Why does Total have 12,000 stations, not 1,000 or 500? Why does Shell, the largest concern in Europe only has 400 stations in Poland, not 10, 20 or 100? Are the representatives of those companies and the countries in which these companies were formed stupid enough to unite, consolidate it senseless, or at some point have they come to the conclusion that only at such a large scale are these companies able to become strong brands, strong individuals? Only for this reason is this consolidation. The fact that we weren't allowed to do this company in such a way that all the stations were turned into one unit... [[Disruption during the speech]] I didn't find how much in Europe, but he's the biggest concern, so he's definitely over 20,000. We weren't allowed because someone introduced us into the Union and didn't see it coming so we could create a company this size. And that's the only reason we're forced to get rid of some of the shares and get rid of some of the stations. But this agreement tells us that in return we will have stations in other countries as the national Orlen company. Isn't that a good solution? [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the creators of the draft of this resolution also have such a direction of thinking and such a view of the matter. Well, that's the kind of horse that Hungary, MOL, Orbán became to beat. The state somehow forgets Germany Although they are sending weapons to Ukraine, but from the demobile, the enerdian ones who have already said that these real refugees, not economic immigrants, like before from Ukraine or before, from the Mediterranean, will not accept, because they do not have a place. That's what the Berlin authorities said. You do not notice the position of France, which not so long ago by the mouth of its President said that entrepreneurs should not withdraw from Russia so quickly, because the war will end and business will have to continue. And somehow you don't scream that these political partners of yours, because you're in the same party ruled by Tusk... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...France... Well, Germany isn't anymore, it's another European group, but it's very close to you, because it's co-managing the European Union, not in opposition to those who rule in the Union. And there are no words of encouragement from Donald Tusk, nor from your senators, so that the policy of Germany and the policy of France will change in this regard. Someone asked... No, he didn't ask, he just said, he said he was very happy, but with such sarcasm that he finally... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...in this regard, a sentence. Yes, because we accept refugees from the war area, women and children. And on the border where I was, too, but not to throw something through her, just to support our soldiers, women and children were practically gone, possibly single persons. Generally, they were young people, mostly people who did not come here from the war area, but from areas they wanted to change as a place to live as an immigrant. He was accused of having only 27% of the State Treasury in Orlena. participation. I'm asking you straight: who sold these 73% ? Who sold them? The governments of the Left, PSL, PO or their political predecessors, such as the Liberal Democratic Congress. They were the ones selling those shares, and that's why we don't have 100%. shares. But in this case you like Polish interest, national interest, economic interest, very much. [[Disruption during the speech]] But you screamed many times... [[Disruption during the speech]] For eight years of your government, you've sold a lot of companies every year, lots of shares in these fuel companies, [[Disruption during the speech]] ...you would sell everything, including Orlen and Lotus, just look into your document, the privatisation program of the Civic Platform, the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL. All you have to do is look in there. Isn't that your hypocrisy? It's not... [[Disruption during the speech]] Are you accusing us of hypocrisy? And as for friendship: friendships are different, among friends, also when it comes to private friendships, we often have people who have different views on many issues. I have a friend who's anti-covido, I have a friend who's a leftist, and that doesn't bother me because he's a decent man. Similarly, in international friendships on many issues one can disagree, each one is responsible for his own actions. But, for God's sake, none of the Law and Justice politicians with Putin made out. That's where it happened. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u257	Thank you very much. Anyone registered? Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[Voice from the O.R.: No, you volunteered...]] Mr. Senator didn't volunteer? Senator Rusiecki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u258	Thank you very much, Marshal. This debate around the resolution is filled with many quotations. I thought there should still be other quotes that were not in the debate. Such a quote: The Russians' exclusion from the privatisation of Lotus would be very damaging, because this means a reduction in the price, and this is an act to the detriment of the company, to the detriment of the State. On 3 April 2011, Paweł Graś, spokesperson of the government, said. [[Oh, my God!]] [[The voice from the room: And with this nice accent...]] Yes, 11 years ago, Mrs. Marshal, 11 years ago... [[Voice from the room: List exhausted.]] [[Voice from the O.R.:]] [[Voice from the O.R.: He didn't report...]] I didn't bother the senator. ...11 years ago, when Vladimir Putin's 2007 speech from the Munich Winter Security Conference was already known, where he presented his policy towards Europe and the world in the area of Russia's security and interests. Second quote: "If you put any conditions in terms of privatization of Lotus, it is not on the basis of Rusophobic attitudes, but on the basis of economic interest. President Bronisław Komorowski's advisor, Professor Tomasz Nałęcz, said so. And third quote: "There is no pressure on Russia to privatize the Polish Lotus energy process and if the privatisation process takes place, it is not possible in a legal state based on the free market economy to exclude anyone from it. And a quote, which you probably know, dated 28 March 2011. There is no ideological reason to speak categorically to investors from any country, including Russia. Our neighbours are also from doing common interests with them.According to Donald Tusk. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And finish that sentence. I want the whole quote.]] [[...Yeah, don't worry.]] [[Voice from the room: And so...]] [[And then, to the end, Senator, finish this sentence.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Would you like to... Senator Klein? Within five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u260	Very short. Mr. Senator, these beautiful quotes, all true, only composed of a fragment. If you'd read it to the end... I don't have that quote on me, because it just didn't cross my mind that someone would try to manipulate reality like that... [[This isn't a manipulation.]] You know, if you're quoting half the sentence because you're more comfortable because it suits your ideology... Well, that's how it works. And that's the dishonesty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u261	Thank you very much. [[It's been said.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[And I say it's been spoken. It is worth mentioning the whole, not participating in fraud.]] For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed has made his speech in the debate on the minutes, and that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Silesian and Senator Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I request that the committee be appointed for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this meeting of the Sejm... [[Voices from the Senate.]] ...at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. In connection with... [[Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] [[Why not? I'm calling it in. Yes, I object.]] [[A voice from the courtroom: 'Cause your marshal already said...]] I said I couldn't hear the voices of the opposition, and at that moment the senator reported it, but... [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] [[Voice from the room: It's over...]] It's time for the opposition vote. [[Voice from the courtroom: Your Marshal has already spoken the next sentence.]] I said the next sentence, and you didn't... [[Do you consider my objection or not?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] I'm not taking your objection into account. The senate has accepted the presented... I'm finishing my sentence. I therefore take the view that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Please listen to the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u262	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the requests submitted at the Senate meeting for a draft resolution expressing opposition to Lotos' sale will take place 20 minutes after the end of the sitting today in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-09-senat-38-1.u263	I'm ordering a recess by 2:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 52]]
