ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open forty-third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Mariusz Gromka and Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Dear Senators, in view of the state of epidemic danger, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held simultaneously in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches in discussions and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of you fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, we click "OK" and then press the "Transmit" button twice: after the vote has been cast in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 40th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's report on this matter has been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I object to the inclusion of this item in the proceedings. We are gathered here today in extraordinary mode. We all want to renegotiate the Supreme Court Act as soon as possible. This is directly related to the issue of KPO measures. The question of the National Courts of Justice is therefore clear from what I know that was not the subject of a dispute, negotiations and government arrangements with the European Commission. It is also not the subject of the so-called content. Milestones, so let's keep these two things out of the way, focus on what's most important. And regardless of all of this, the draft Senate law on the KRS. In fact, about the liquidation of the KRS is insanely controversial and deeply unconstitutional. I would like to remind you, for example, that it contains an unconstitutional proposal to shorten the term of office of the National Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Since there is a vote of objection, I will call for a vote on the proposal I have put forward. Who is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We've got a lot of remotes today. It's been a while. 91 Senators voted, 50 for, 40 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that immediately after the examination of the first point, i.e. The law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws will be voted on. We will then proceed with the examination of the second point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws. At this point, I would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the senators that because we start at 4:00 p.m., there is a good chance that the second point will not be completed. Then I'm gonna schedule a recess by morning on June 8th about whether it's 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., and then I'm gonna make a decision in agreement with the club heads. And this will be the continuation of this meeting, which is the forty-third, and when it is completed, we will begin sitting forty-four, whose order you will receive separately. As this is an emergency meeting, the senators have today, tomorrow, etc. numerous commitments, I plan at no later than 11 p.m. interrupt the sitting so that the State can fulfil its previous commitments. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 722, and the committee report In print No 722 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present a report to the committee, who is joined by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, a report on the Supreme Court and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 26 May. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted together with the amendments recommended. I want to discuss in a condensed manner the substance of these amendments. The majority of the committee voted in favour of clear corrective action. This is the point of the amendments which both committees recommend to the High House. Corrective action related to the existence of an institution called the Disciplinary Chamber, which had no merit of court, must be unambiguous and authentic. Hence the 3 main groups of amendments. First of all, judges of the institution will not be judges of the Supreme Court and will not be appointed to the Supreme Court. Their service relationship shall be terminated as soon as the law enters into force. Secondly, the rulings of this Chamber shall be declared invalid and a quick, 1-month procedure shall be established for the decision of the Office of cases which are of a real nature. Among the decisions of the institution being liquidated, we have judgments of the nature of political repression, and we also have what can be called ordinary delicts. Within 1 month, the Chamber of Professional Responsibility will deal with ordinary delicacies very quickly. So we're not dealing with the liquidation of the court. I'm already ahead of the questions here. Only with the liquidation of an institution that did not have the quality of the court and with the creation of an institution that has the quality of the court. Finally, the third issue is a 7-year internship for Supreme Court judges who may form part of the Chambers of Professional Responsibility. The public debate requires honesty: this is a provision which means that the Chamber of Professional Responsibility will not include judges appointed with the participation of the National Courts of Justice in the current form. We can accept the assumption, and such we have assumed, that in this law we do not settle the issue of the KRS, although in my personal opinion today the composition of this institution, the functioning of this institution does not correspond to the standards of the Polish Constitution, but we cannot in remedial actions legalize indirectly the action of the National Council of Courts. There are two other important amendments. One is to remove the delicacy of refusal from disciplinary delicacies. I draw attention to the fact that the introduction of this delict was not justified in the draft law and there is doubt about the need and the relationship between this new unjustified delict, which is unfounded in the content of the justification, and other provisions determining the delictivities which, in the opinion of the majority, seem sufficient. And finally, since the test of independence and impartiality of the judge, I will remind you that this is an initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland It is intended to appear in the Polish legal system, it should be an institution of a clear and unambiguous nature. There is no reason why the circumstances of the appointment of a judge could not be the only basis for this institution to be moved or set up. Hence our amendments. In addition, there are several amendments tabled by the opposition senators in the Senate to correct the dysfunctions of this law. The issue of misrepresentation in Article. 7 is the amendment of Senator Martynowski. Other amendments concern the budgetary autonomy of the institution being wound up and how its assets are transferred. Finally, one amendment concerns competence, the distribution of competences between the chambers of the Supreme Court. In addition to this, there are amendments proposed by the Legislative Office of a purely editorial nature. The point of recommendation is very simple. We take the first corrective step, he must be unambiguous, and we genuinely eliminate an institution that did not have the quality of the court. We have the right to meet public expectations regarding independent and efficient courts. We're building an institution that will have the quality of the court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u5	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur, some of these amendments that you have discussed may violate our system, I would call it constitutional, namely by means of the bill we will be Or are you going to be? They tried to change the judgments or judgments of the courts. How will you deal with this charge? Is it even possible, in emergency situations, is it possible, or do you realize, the authors of this amendment, that they are aware of such a danger?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u7	I understand that the senator is asking for a ruling from the disbanded Disciplinary Chamber that did not have the quality of the court. I've tried to explain in advance that we're setting up a quick, one-month procedure for taking out of office cases that are of the nature of delicacies, delicacies for which the judges should respond disciplinaryly. It is therefore the liquidation of an institution without the quality of the court and the creation of an institution which has the quality of the court, with its commitment to a 1-month procedure in cases of ordinary delicacies. There can be no charge of interference by the legislative authority, which cancels and does nothing with judicial decisions, because we are triggering a procedure for express consideration of liability for ordinary delicacies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u8	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski, question, twice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u9	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, in these amendments, there is another one, namely one which practically removes the existing judges of the Disciplinary Chamber. Tell me whether you believe this amendment is in line with the Constitution or not. 'Cause there's also a rule in the Constitution that the judge is indispensable.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u10	But we're not dealing with the liquidation of the court, we're dealing with the liquidation of an institution that doesn't have the quality of the court. If you want to know my personal opinion, I would not apply the same mechanism to nominations to universal and administrative courts which had the quality of the court, but the Disciplinary Board did not have the quality of the court. [[I'm sorry, but I'm not asking about the court...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u11	But no, no, Mr. Senator Czerwinski, this is not a moment for polemics, you can... [[There's another question...]] ...to speak in the discussion. But now you've signed up for Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, in the group of cases that the Supreme Court's Disciplinary Chamber dealt with, there were 90%. I am, of course, making the Prime Minister straight here, which he said exactly the other way around. On the case-law or preliminary questions as a basis for disciplinary proceedings. But it was about 10%. related issues e.g. with drunk driving. How will the problem of this group be solved 10% Things? Have you found a solution to this problem in the proposed changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u13	Mr. Senator and High Izbo, this is a solution that I call express procedure for ex officio proceedings by the House of Disciplinary Responsibility, which, after our amendments, will have the quality of the court. An institution shall be built on the assumption that persons with public functions apply institutional rules with good will. So here we are opening the path of express handling the delicacies that Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about. But this question raises an important question. Please note that the current authority itself is admitting in this law to powerful errors, because there has been repression for the use of preliminary questions and now we are introducing ourselves, you are introducing an exemption in this matter. Thus, the Act is partly an expression of admitting to own mistakes, and we want to, the majority of the Senate wants to clarify this matter and build an institution with an unambiguous character.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u14	Are you Senator Czerwinski... Because I don't see... [[Voice from the room: There she is.]] For the third time, right? [[I'm gonna go twice.]] Is that a further question? [[Yes.]] Good. In order to be symmetrical, we will do this: Mr. Senator Czerwiński, 2 questions, Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, 2 questions. Then you'll ask Senator Czerwinski a third question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u15	Mr. Senator said that, but we're being watched by citizens, which is why I'm asking. Just say it in plain language. No person whose case was not related to the judicial sphere, but concerned e.g. driving under the influence of alcohol... Well, it's not gonna be that because there's no Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, that person won't be held responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u16	It is clear that this was not the intention of the amendments. Normal delicacies, delicacies, which are a disgrace to the justice system, should be severely judged. No matter how sympathetic the judges were, they should be severely judged. We create this institution so that political repression does not recur. [[Thank you very much. Senator Czerwiński, question number three.]] There have been political repressions under the motto of the fight against corruption in history. So I answer Senator Kwiatkowski's question: one must be distinguished from the other. We want to stigmatize corruption and eliminate political repression in the justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u17	Senator Czerwiński asking a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u18	Yeah, I can now. [[Okay.]] Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I didn't ask about the courts in the last question. I asked about the judges, and these are appointed by the president, actually, for life. Well, unless they commit some kind of disciplinary measure. You're the one using that pretty word. However, I would like an answer on the judges. I would like you to explain what an institution that does not have the quality of a court means and who determines that an institution has the quality of a court or does not have the quality of a court. What kind of body does that? In what mode? Because this is a novelty in our legal or legal market. I'd ask for an exact explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u19	No, no, that's not new. As long as the Constitutional Tribunal was independent, it gave a clear interpretation of the court's institution. Well, we are in an emergency situation where there is no independent Constitutional Court. He is excluded, therefore the responsible people apply the constitution themselves, they do so in the sense of public responsibility. We, the majority of the Senate, interpret it in this way, as I put it in our report. [[Thank you very much.]] If we return to the times when there was an individual Constitutional Court with the quality of independence and real competence, we will be, as before 2015, when all political forces respected its ruling, once again comply with those judgments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u21	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to be sure, because this is a very important issue. That is, whether an institution fulfils this condition or is an institution having the quality of a court, the Senate majority is to decide. That's what I understand. Did I get that right, or do you want to fill in the blanks?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u22	It's not just the PiS management. [[Most of the senate...]] It's not just management... Yeah, I'll answer that. That's a good political answer. [[I'm not asking who doesn't. I'm asking who does.]] It's not just the PiS management who interprets the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u23	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that the bill was introduced by the President and by Members. In the course of the parliamentary work, the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprock, was authorised to present her position. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. You're welcome to the bleachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High Senate a bill passed from the submission of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, i.e. the Law of 26 May 2022 amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. Very briefly, with regard to the President's decision to refer this legislative initiative to the Sejm, I would like to point out the two objectives that have been pursued by the head of state. The first was the conclusion of the dispute on the Warsaw line. Brussels. The President, presenting this initiative, pointed out that this bill, and today the bill is a tool for the government to end this dispute. The second objective, not least, is to amend the rules in such a way that disciplinary proceedings concerning judges, representatives of other legal professions and other professions referred to in the Act are carried out in an efficient, reliable manner and that liability can be effectively enforced. The basic assumption of the Act discussed today by the High Senate is the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. The President proposes that the Chamber of Professional Responsibility be established in this place. Two points I would like to point out here. First of all, all autonomy, which today is characterized by the Disciplinar Chamber, is eliminated. The appointment of judges who will rule on disciplinary matters is also changing. The President proposed that the Chamber of Professional Responsibility should consist of 11 Supreme Court Judges who will be elected under the following procedure: first, there will be a completely objective draw of 33 Supreme Court Judges ruling on the day of the draw in the Supreme Court, and then the President of the Republic of Poland will appoint 11 judges from this group, who will rule on disciplinary matters during the joint five-year term. The second very important element of the law discussed today is the so-called. a test of impartiality and independence. It's an institution that you're proposing to the President to execute the article. 45 constitutions that say that everyone has the right to be heard by an impartial and independent court. After the President's legislative initiative was introduced, the Court of Justice of the European Union's rulings appeared in the next few weeks, which in a very similar way refer to the question of examining the grounds for impartiality and independence. The TSUE clearly points out, for example, in the decisions of March this year, that the mere appointment of judges under the procedure which today is in force in the Republic of Poland is not sufficient reason to question the grounds for impartiality and independence of judges. There must be additional circumstances and there must be a connection to a specific case. Therefore, the President, when proposing this solution, does not only exercise and strengthen the rights of the citizen in the article. 45 of the Constitution, but in addition also introduces the test set out in the case law of the TSUE. The last point is a matter of transitional provisions, because they are very important in this law. The pending cases that are pending today before the Disciplinary Chamber are taken over on the date of the entry into force of the Act by the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. Since these are matters which are based on the Code of Criminal Procedure, they will, due to the principle of directness, be properly repeated in full before the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. If, by the date of entry into force of the Act, provisional measures have been applied to the judge, the Presidential Chamber of Professional Responsibility shall examine them at its first meeting of office, there will be no need for the judge to submit a proposal in this respect. And the question of the status of judges and what will happen to the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber, judges of the Supreme Court ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber. In view of the constitutional provisions, the President proposes that, in the first step, the President of the Supreme Court should propose to the Supreme Court judges a place in the Disciplinary Chamber of other chambers of the Supreme Court, primarily on the basis of their professional experience as well as the needs of the judiciary. In cases where the judges would not like to accept this proposal, they could retire. As I said, this is a constitutional standard, because the constitution makes it clear that, in the event of a reorganisation of justice, a judge may be transferred to another court or retire, but with the right to his current salary. And in this context, to conclude, I would like to refer to the amendments proposed by the High Commissions and discussed by the Senator. The first issue is the recognition that decisions of the Disciplinary Chamber are invalid and without legal effect, together with the procedure proposed in the Article. Nine, which gives us the opportunity to investigate these cases within a month. The drafting of this provision clearly indicates the declaratory nature of the decision of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. It seems that the court would have completely bound its hands in this respect, i.e. the law as if it had concluded that the judgments of the Disciplinary Chamber were invalid and without legal effect. Probably additional analysis would still require immunity cases, because if it is considered invalid for the removal of a judge's immunity, it will be translated into the entire criminal proceedings. And this is the aspect you asked Senator Kwiatkowski about. It doesn't seem so obvious that it's criminal, which is... And we know in which cases criminal convictions are brought in the Disciplinary Chamber, these are the cases connected with driving in a state of drunkenness, they were also those for the offence of the article. 197, that's rape. Here is also the question of how the participants in these proceedings, and specifically possible victims, will respond to such a proposal. Therefore, this proposal should be dealt with with with with far-reaching doubts as to its compatibility with the Constitution. The second point is the proposal by the High Commission to terminate the service relationship of the person appointed as judge of the court as of the date of entry into force of the law. In this context, I would like to refer to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 March 2020 in the case of the signature C-508/19. This is a very important sentence, because it came up on the basis of a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Court in the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance. This was the question of the civil case being dealt with by a judge of the general court in order to determine the non-existence of the service relationship of a Supreme Court judge in charge of the Disciplinar Chamber. The TSUE found that a preliminary ruling was not admissible because of the hypothetical subject matter of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, and I quote here that there is no institution in Polish national law which would confer on national courts the right to rule on the compatibility of the act of appointment by the President of the Republic of Poland to the office of judge, in particular with the effect of erga omnes, i.e. everyone. It seems that this issue is absolutely clear, and the proposal of the High Commission is not only contrary to the principle of irreparability of the judge, but also to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thanking the Marshal, the High Senate, for the opportunity to present the Presidential Act, I kindly ask the High Senate to adopt a law without amendments or possibly with legislative amendments. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u26	The Minister concluded her request with an appeal for adoption of the bill without amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u27	I'm getting better. With legislative amendments. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry, but I've come up with a shortcut. I meant, of course, the amendments I discussed. I'm so sorry. Thank you for this opportunity to clarify. Of course, with legislative amendments, in particular those for the article. 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u28	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In your speech, Minister, you said that the President's intention to submit this bill was to put an end to disputes with the European Commission. Do you not think that the role of the head of state is rather a presentation which would restore the rule of law in Poland, and one of the main reasons why the current situation within the judiciary is the way the members of the National Courts are elected and the consequences of decisions taken by the National Courts? Does this mean that the President believes that the KRS operates, well, in accordance with the law and that its decisions are of a legal nature and affect the state of improvement of democracy and the rule of law in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u31	Mr. Senator! High Senate! I was talking about two aspects that were such a fundamental reason for the President to take this initiative. The first is precisely this tool for the government to put an end to the dispute, and the second is to regulate disciplinary liability. The primary objective of this law is to resolve the issue of the Disciplinary Chamber. Neither in the original presidential submission nor in the course of the work in the Sejm did this project refer to the Act on the National Judicial Council. In this respect, actually, that's all you have to say. The only body which finds that the legislation is unlawful shall be the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal in the case of the National Courts of Justice has spoken. In addition, I also wanted to recall those rulings of the TSUE, which I mentioned earlier, which clearly indicate that the procedure itself shaped in such a way is not enough to question not only the status of a judge, because there is no basis for that, but also the issue of impartiality and independence. [[Thank you very much...]] This must be dealt with in every individual case. And this presidential project, this bill today, it's in the form of tests.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u32	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. During the committee session, I asked you a question and decided to repeat it in the second reading session, because many of the opinions that we receive in connection with the presidential presentation are neither flattering nor gracious to this project. Minister, who of the legal authorities helps you to build such laws, and who has therefore advised the President to intervene in a trial, including a court case, when he has found that he is innocent people who have not yet been convicted of a final judgment? Is it the same team of people? Because that's why there are doubts. However, the acquittal of Minister Kaminski and Minister Wąsik raised many doubts and we believe Also many legal authorities that this is not the right time or place for the entry of the executive authority into the judicial process. And this time, you... [[Time, Senator.]] I'm almost done. ... He's accusing the Senate that we're trying to put independent judges under the wall and say that your sentences weren't good. In the meantime, we think they weren't judges. Who advised you?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u34	Thank you, Senator. I would like to point out that the question is a minute. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u35	Mrs. Senator, as I answered at the committee meeting, the project was created at the President's Office, which is responsible for the presidential legislation. This project was not formally consulted because the President's Office, above all the President, is not obliged to do so. Of course, at the stage of both the Parliament and the Senate's work, we took note of the positions and responded to them on an ongoing basis, using the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the case law of the Polish Constitutional Court, the caselaw of the Supreme Administrative Court. And these are also the positions that speak for this form of law. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Arthur Dunin's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u37	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, I have a question for you. This law, too, in the light of the opinion of our senate legislators, raises serious constitutional doubts. I have this question: is the President aware that the earlier laws he signed, but also this law, are breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u39	Senator, I will answer, using probably the same argument: the only body which states in Poland the compatibility of the rules with the Constitution is the Constitutional Tribunal. If the President of the Republic And it was everyone who was the hub of this office. It has doubts in this regard, it has a constitutional instrumentarium to use it. On the other hand, the assessment is made by the head of state each time. The Supreme Court Act has not been examined by the Constitutional Tribunal to the extent we are talking about. Thank you. [[But the Constitutional Tribunal, the real Constitutional Court...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, very... [[... has ruled that the President has broken the constitution. So?]] Mr. Senator, very... [[And no reaction from the President. Thank you. I'm sorry.]] Senator, please ask questions, because respect for the Constitution begins with respect for the rules of each of the chambers in which we sit. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam Minister, in connection with all this, I asked the question at the end and there was no time, so I did not raise it in the discussion, but today, now, we have some time, so once again I ask the Minister for an answer. I'm going back to the opinion of Professor Wiącko, the ombudsman. Because I asked you. I'll remind you. Are you in favour of interfering so deeply in court decisions and subjecting these judgments to the assessment of the Disciplinary Chamber or the new institution that will arise? But now my question... He was giving you an answer I'm not going to repeat. Now, after listening to your answer, I would like to ask you one more time: Minister, do you think this is a good solution, that there are cases in four different places about bringing judges to disciplinary charge... [[Timer signal]] ...for a court order? [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] [[Voice from the room: Let him finish...]] Is it good that it's regulated in four places? [[Thank you very much. You're welcome...]] Because the state is bringing in the fourth...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u42	I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u43	Mr. Senator, to a large extent, the bill that the High Senate is discussing today does not address the issue of responsibility. There is, of course, a question of establishing the grounds for refusing to exercise a dimension. That's one thing. But, Mr Senator, the President's Office is in the position that everyone is to observe the laws that are in force in Poland, and under this obligation, constitutionally, the judges are not excluded. Putting all matters relating to case law into a single bag Although the question of corruption may also have an impact on the judgment, at such a time it is difficult to say that there should be no possibility for a judge to exercise disciplinary responsibility... Well, there's no way to formulate that kind of regulation in a way that's incredibly casuistic. Disciplinary rules have been in force over the years, which are quite strong in nature as general clauses, and so it is still. This isn't the President's Office... The President's office does not respond to these issues in any way, nor does it interfere with the case law in any way. This is left to the spokespersons and then to the independent court to assess whether there has been a violation of the law, whether there has been a delinquency or whether there has been a criminal offence. I think it's the only way I can answer this question. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the law on which the High Senate is prosecuting today introduces the relevant editorial bodies into all laws, which say: "It is not a disciplinary offence that a judicial decision given with the involvement of a particular Supreme Court judge I quote here the provision concerning the Supreme Court of Justice on the ground that it is a mistake to interpret and apply the provisions of national law or of European Union law, or to determine the facts or to assess the evidence. So the bill that the High Senate is leaning over today is exactly what this issue is about. And it is not that we can catalogue all issues related to the content of judgments in any way. There are very different situations. I think there are situations, especially if there's been some criminal activity in which... And then it has to be translated into the content of the ruling indicating that it must be the basis of disciplinary responsibility. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will actually repeat the questions that were addressed to the rapporteur's representative of the committee, but I did not get a satisfactory answer from him. Minister, when was the last time in our history that laws were amended, the judgments of the courts were touched? Well, that would be... It's just... In such a situation, an illusory judicial authority becomes at all, because it turns out that every scope can be changed by a single legislative act, which is not subsequently controlled by the courts. And second question. I talk about these amendments all the time. What's with the judge's principle of indiscretion? Well, that's the basic rule that has, among other things. To serve it, so that the judge is independent. And now one of these amendments, or actually a group of amendments denies this principle... [[Timer signal]] ...basic for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u46	Time, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! As I said in my introductory speech, I believe that such an amended amendment, as proposed by the joint committees... This possible decision of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility will be quasi-declarationary. I do not know the situation that such a solution exists in the current Polish system. In preparing for today's debate before the High Senate, I referred to the Act of 23 February 1991 on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State, which concerns judgments given by Polish law enforcement authorities, justice or out-of-court bodies between 1 January 1944 and 31 December 1989. Yes, there was a question of declaring judgments invalid... Here we are talking about judgments of a so-called character. Forensic murders. Yes? But the procedure is... Yes, the first article refers to the fact that these judgments are considered invalid, but in the article. 2 The procedure is described. In accordance with that Article, the nullity of the judgment shall be determined by a district court or by a military district court if, in accordance with the applicable rules, the court of the military court is, in accordance with the applicable law, competent at the date of the entry into force of the law, to determine the case for an act which is the subject of that judgment. And then: the annulment of the judgment is considered equivalent to the acquittal. So there was no declaratory character... Today it is supposed to be related practically only to statutory effect, and there was simply an examination of the whole procedure. So I see a very serious difference here. And I maintain my position of far-reaching doubt as to the compatibility of this proposal with the Constitution, in particular with the principle of three divisions of power. The second point, related to the proposal of the High Commission, is the issue of solving the business relationship. It's kind of, in my opinion, a ruse because... That's right, the constitution speaks directly of the principle of the judge's indispensability. So if there's no way to remove the judge No, it would be a bright contradiction with the constitution. A business relationship formula is being tried here. Firstly, I believe that this is still a problem and that this still concerns constitutional value Judge-in-law's indispensability. Secondly, we have a ruling of the EUSF which was intended to address this issue and which, I believe, clearly crosses this issue, also from the perspective of the European Court. I would like to highlight one more aspect here. In addition to the termination of the service relationship, the High Commissions also propose that the Supreme Court judge, today ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber, cannot be appointed as Supreme Court Judge. In my opinion, this provision may give rise to doubts as regards compliance with Article. 60 constitutions. It is about access to public positions. So there's an extra doubt here. And it is undoubtedly repressive. Thank you kindly. [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Which specifically results from the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as I understand, so you stated. The need to take account of the circumstances of the case when assessing the process of appointing a judge? In its March 2020 judgment, the EU Court made clear that such clarification was not due and, worse than that, could undermine the objective of controlling the independence of the court concerned in relation to doubts as to the appointment of a member. Well, maybe I'll just say... This is Simpson's judgment of 26 March 2020: The guarantees of access to an independent and impartial court previously established by law, and in particular the guarantees defining the concept as well as the composition of that court, constitute the basis for the right to a fair trial. And further: this right means that every court is obliged to examine whether it is, on account of its composition, such a court if there is serious doubt in this regard. [[Timer signal]] This study is essential in the context of the trust that democratic society's courts must generate in individuals. In this sense, such control is an important formal requirement... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...which must be strictly respected and whose fulfilment must be checked out of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u50	Question, Senator, and time. [[Voice from the room: It's over...]] Yeah, yeah, I'm saying the question is time, one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u51	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. I'm about to find my signature. I referred to it because it is no secret that the case-law line of the TSUE is changing with regard to these issues... Mr Senator quoted an extreme ruling which does not refer to Poland at all and refers to labour matters between the workers of the European Union's agendas and the judiciary. At this point, the TSUE was formulated, under very specific circumstances, on the internal affairs of the EU administration, an extreme view which was not confirmed in the further case law of the TSUE. I was referring to a case which concerned the European arrest warrant and the surrender of a citizen to Poland, so it clearly had to do with our legal status and the circumstances that we are talking about today. There was a clear statement that such a procedure... The European Court referred to the legal situation and pointed out specific laws and the fact that the procedure had been drawn up itself It specifically referred to the fact that the majority of the National Judicial Board is either from, or is elected by, the legislative, executive authority It is not a sufficient reason for the independence and impartiality of the judges to be questioned. I'm so sorry, I can't find the signature of that sentence. I'll do it right away. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will ask the question which has been procurated by one of the answers of the rapporteur's senator. Namely, he used twice the concept of a non-jurisdictional institution. Minister, tell me whether there is any procedure anywhere that would give the Senate or the parliament in general... that would allow him to examine whether the institution has the qualities of the court or not and to determine it. Is this even possible in the Polish legal system? ♪ Or are we ♪ Maybe not us, but the majority who tabled these amendments What if we use and broadcast certain rights, which means we go beyond the rights and powers conferred by the Constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u55	I'm so sorry. Can I just finish the answer for you... [[You're welcome, of course.]] I'm very sorry, but I finally found myself in my materials. I quoted the judgment of the TSUE in Case C-562/21 and Case C-563/21 Openbaar Minister. It was a Dutch case involving ENA. Points 86 and 87 of the judgment are the points I was talking about. Now I'm going to go to Senator Czerwinski's question. In view of the President's prerogative, which is currently in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the appointment of a judge by the President at the request of the National Council of Courts This position is not only a position of the President's office, but, above all, has a very serious basis in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, that is, a fixed case-law line presented uniformly for many years, and the position of the Supreme Administrative Court has been established for several years, and this line has never been challenged by the TSUE at present there is no procedure for questioning the status of judge in any way after the appointment of a judge. Besides, it seems that such a model cannot be introduced at all, because, as the senator said, it is a guarantee of judicial independence. And this is not just a view from the judge's side, because the independence of the judge is not a trait of the judge who is to serve him, it is a trait that is to serve the citizen or any party that is before this court. Currently, there is absolutely no procedure for examining the status of judges. Whoever the president has appointed as judge is the judge. In fact, today, during the work of the Joint Committees, I also referred to this issue, quoting the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment clearly stating that even if there were any doubts at the stage of the pre-trial procedure, the President's prerogatives in this respect are sanctioning. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u57	Continuing the thread of this missing sentence, also those signatures that the Minister quoted here... Does the Minister know that this sentence, which the Minister claimed was a labour-related sentence... Of course it is, it concerns EU workers, but this judgment, which I quoted, was later referred to in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Judge Zurek This is a case of C-487/19, so it does not apply only to disputes between staff of EU officials. And in that judgment in the case of Judge Żurk, the Court of Justice assessed the circumstances of the appointment of Mr Aleksander Stępkowski to the Chamber of Emergency Inspection and considered that his judgment should be disregarded because of the defect of his appointment. [[Is that a question?]] And that assessment was off-limits to a specific case. [[That's not a question!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u58	Yes, it was, Senator, a question. Mr... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: I know that...]] I'm sorry. Mrs. Senator, I'm already saying that we shouldn't shout like that. Senator Brejza asked the Minister whether it was aware of the content of the ruling he referred to, and I believe that this question is fully justified. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u59	Mr. Senator, I am not surprised at the fact that the Court raises other judgments in other cases. This is the normal practice of every court. But if I can afford to take a case like this, then here's what I'm gonna say: every argument is counter-argument. And since we're using this, I'm going to quote whether I'm referring to the judgment on the question of Judge Kamil Zaradkiewicz for a preliminary ruling concerning the judges appointed by the Council of State. Then the Court... There, in the course of the proceedings, they were raised... This is very important, I am referring here to the name of the judge because this question for a preliminary ruling was asked as part of a single member's membership, it was only a question of the judge, and during the proceedings there were doubts as to whether it was properly filled. And the Court of Justice, although it did not answer that question and did not refer to the substance, made it very clear that the question came from the court of the law. So, as part of this method, of course, at every moment I think I can find the right argument. But I recall that sentence I was talking about because he was in a specific case. On a case relating to the specific guarantees in the criminal procedure. There were several cases of ENA, there were attempts to challenge the Polish justice system precisely in cases related to the European Arrest Warrant, but the TSUE never accepted these doubts. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u61	Thank you very much. You have repeatedly stressed that the President is very respectful of the Constitution and that, in fact, all the presented things are based on its analysis. So I would like to ask: how is it that the President, being the executive authority, makes use of the right to appoint a member of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, and should only appoint him? And the other thing. Why does the President state that a countersignation by the next unit of executive authority in the form of the President of the Council of Ministers is necessary in the establishment of this House? How come the President doesn't respect the Constitution and breaks it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u62	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u63	I would probably have to answer this question quite harshly and to the thesis of breaking the Constitution, but for the sake of respect for the High Senate, I will only say this: please give me a specific indication of these circumstances. Then I'll talk to you about it. So please don't bother about the President's violation of the Constitution. This proposal, the presidential proposal, because the form which was put forward by the High Sejm to the Senate was actually unchanged in relation to the presidential proposal, was shaped in such a way as to ensure that, through the term of office of the judges ruling in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, the rules of judgment in these cases were fully objective, because such, and not another model, as well as the obligation to keep the different terms of office in the IOZ, makes every Supreme Court judge at some stage of his career to rule in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. I would just like to point out to the High Senate that it will not be a group of specialised judges, because we are talking about the judges of the Supreme Court who already perform this function on the day of the draw, are ruling in their home chambers. This will continue to be the case if appointed by the President to the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, they will combine their responsibilities in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility and in the Chamber of Origin; their maximum allocation of cases will not exceed half. We have no doubt here, as the President's law firm, about the compatibility of this solution with the Constitution, because we are talking about judges who are judges of the Supreme Court already at the time of the draw, meet all the statutory requirements, have great experience. In fact, there is a change in part of their responsibilities to judgment in matters of very important importance in matters of professional responsibility. It is not necessary to convince the High Senate that these are very important matters for society, because society is looking at what is happening in the justice system. And if you can see that this is a professional group... if there's a belief in society that this group is out of the realm of responsibility and that there's some kind of permission for impunity, then the consequences of respect for the law are very bad. And going back to the main content, I'm going to say that the choice is made by the Supreme Court judges, and that is to entrust some of the duties to be performed for a certain period of time. And in this respect, it seems, there are no constitutional doubts. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u64	Thank you kindly, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Elephant's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At today's meeting of the Joint Committee on the occasion of the vote on the amendments, you were only given the opportunity to express your views in the formula 'yes' or 'no' as to whether you accepted these amendments or not. Some of them you've accepted. Can you explain to us which amendments, in your opinion From those you haven't expressly authorized, they're distorting the sense of this presidential presentation, are they distorting the President's intentions? And why are they so dangerous for the final shape of the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u67	Thank you, Senator, for the question. High Senate! In addition to the amendments that we discussed earlier, i.e. regarding the recognition as void and without legal effect of the Disciplinary Chamber's judgments... This is an issue that raises the most serious doubts, because it has not only consequences for the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber, but above all for the participants of these proceedings, also for possible victims, because there were also criminal cases there. So this is a question that I think raises the most serious doubts. The same doubts, also of a constitutional nature, and in two respects, because on the one hand, the judge's indispensability and, on the other hand, the infringement of the article. 60 Constitutions You will allow the senator that I will no longer repeat this argument. It is also proposed to give the wording of the article. 10. In particular, it is about distinguishing the judge's professional relationship from the judge's status, which seems to have no justification. And the third issue, which I think may also raise some constitutional doubts, is the issue of introducing an additional requirement for Supreme Court judges to rule in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, which is the requirement for a 7-year term of office in the Supreme Court. I do not hide the fact that this issue has already been discussed during legislative work at the Parliament's stage. The argument here is of two kinds. First, the candidate for the Supreme Court judge at the time of the competition before the National Courts and then the appointment by the President of the Republic of Poland must meet very high requirements. It's a question of professional experience, education, etc., it's a matter of either a legal career or a title, it's a question of age, an impeccable character... This requires experience, as I said, so the Supreme Court is now being visited by really great, experienced lawyers. Thus, the introduction of an additional criterion appears to be unjustified, and in addition, it also differentiates the status of judges in this respect. I believe that these three issues raise the greatest questions of a constitutional nature. Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u69	Thank you very much. Since the Minister neither at the committee meeting nor now has she answered my question, I ask once again: what was the President's direction by stating that a countersignation of the President of the Council of Ministers must be required? This is the executive authority that is really going to decide that this judge is going to be, and the other one isn't going to be, because you don't like the Prime Minister. Are we all to understand that this is what judicial authority is supposed to be like right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u71	Senator, the question you're asking is not the result of this submission, it's from the article. 44 constitutions where the President's acts are indicated, which do not require countersignation. And all those that are not excluded are subject to countersignations. Of course, there is a more subtle issue, which is a prerogative, which is an action within the scope of the prerogatives, acts against the Court, of course, here is the Court's work, a case-by-case work, but this issue seems to be settled. As I mentioned, this is a very specific issue of determining and entrusting responsibilities to a person who already on the date of the draw, and then the President's appointment as Supreme Court Judge, of course also with an aspect of irresistibility, but also expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u73	Thank you very much. I'll have two questions. Here's the first question. The Minister just asked me when the president broke the constitution. Well, I don't want to do any more legal questions, but remember, this bill, which now... this chamber in some sense also shaped by the President's signature. And I have a question for you because you've made an accusation against the judge's community that it was above the law. I'm the one who's asking the Minister now about some specific charges... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: I did not say that.]] ...in relation to the judge's environment that he's above the law... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: I did not say anything like that, Senator.]] ...except for the normal situations that occur in each professional group. What were the situations? I'm asking because I only know one. I'm from the Casta group. What were the cases... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to stand this professional group above the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: And that is the first question.]] But... Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll let the answer begin with the second aspect. I didn't do I didn't say that. I said that judges, like all citizens, are to abide by the law. It's a constitutional obligation. I didn't charge anybody, I'm not authorized to do that. In fact, this is outside the scope of today's debate. I didn't press charges like that, so I think I can put an end to it. I was stating the fact that I was talking about what law is in force today. As regards the issue of the Supreme Court Act, this law does not execute any judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as constitutional allegations are concerned, we have no ruling in this regard. This issue that we are discussing today is, yes, I am not concealing A reflection on today's legal situation and the President, presenting this project, made it clear what the motives are. But you can't say today, based on case law, as I mentioned, the only authority that can say that the law is unconstitutional. On the contrary, she has a presumption of constitutionality. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, may I have a little...]] You're welcome. Of course. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Sorry, because...]] You may also rest, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: No, no, everything is fine, just...]] Good. Please ask me to ask you a question... [[And yet your marshal wanted to...]] Your marshal and second question. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u77	The Minister, answering a question just now, or rather commenting on this seven-year internship, said that there are lawyers in the Supreme Court with very large achievements and internships. Well, for 11 judges... for 11 people in the Disciplinary Board there are 5 former prosecutors, 3 former legal counsels, 1 former voivode and 2 former presidents of the appeal court after a delegation from the Ministry of Justice. Does the Minister believe that this professional path actually predestined these people for their careers to such significant positions in the Supreme Court, i.e. in this highest, most important court in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u78	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not authorized to judge in any way, but I can say one thing: all these people met the statutory requirements on the date of appointment to the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u80	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u81	Minister, I will return to the matter of how to appoint judges to the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. Because those 33 judges are drawn... This is done by the first president of the Supreme Court. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Małgorzata Paprock: Chairman of the College, yes.]] My question is this: and out of these 33 you can't draw these 11? The first president couldn't keep doing this, but he has to do it? Why the president? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to answer the question. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Mr. Marshal! High Senate...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I ask the senators not to disturb the Minister in answering the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u83	Today, the question of the division of power has been discussed several times. We usually talk about it in the context of the separation of authorities, not entering into their own fields of competence. However, this principle should also be seen in terms of the cooperation and balance of the authorities. The President's proposal fits exactly in. If the Supreme Court is formed... I don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced what the President's role is. All these powers of the head of state, which are constitutionally indicated, concerning the justice system, are now part of the balancing of the authorities. At no stage of the work, an amendment was tabled aimed precisely at making it a question of drawing lots. The law in the form in which it entered the High Senate assumes the 2-degree of this procedure. In the president's opinion, this is an optimal procedure. I would like to make one more point in this context. The Chamber of Professional Responsibility as a Chamber has a total term of office, so its composition will change. The same is true of those who hold the office of head of state. It seems that, when the whole procedure is formulated in this way, it is a mechanism which, in the long term, guarantees that really many Supreme Court judges at some stage of their career will rule on these matters, and this is certainly the time-frame that guarantees objectivity. Besides, I have the impression that all the allegations that are formulated in this way are much more formulated... It's not an accusation that hits the president, it's just that somewhere beneath the surface there's a charge that hits the Supreme Court judges, pointing out that there may be doubts about whether they're impartial and apolitical. There are no grounds for making such a conclusion today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll have further questions.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal... [[Sign me up because I don't want anyone...]] But there's no one else, Senator... [[Oh, there isn't, is there?]] [[It's just me, but...]] Oh, and you're Senator Alexander Comfort. You're welcome. [[If this is some kind of thought sequence, then I ask Senator Borowski to continue his thought.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u85	There's been an exchange of courtesy. Thank you. I must say, Minister, that of many of our debates, there are not any specific terms in mind, but it will remain in this debate. This is the word "balance." Balancing simply means that executives go where they shouldn't go and balance. [[Yeah, he's balancing...]] [[Mr. Senator, I remind you that this is the time to ask questions.]] [[Voice from the room: You don't judge...]] But, Mr. Marshal, don't remind me because time flies right now, right? [[Joy in the Chamber]] In addition to the President, as was mentioned here, the Prime Minister is also balancing there. Well, Minister, do you really That's the question. He believes that the appointment of Supreme Court judges... The president doesn't assign them to the Criminal Chamber, to the Civil Chamber, but to disciplinary... and the President, and the Prime Minister, so the man who's been firming and accepting the prosecution of judges so far. Do you think this balance is something that should happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u86	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u87	Following the logic of the question, Mr. Senator, it can be said that the President appoints judges to all chambers because the nomination procedure is so formulated that, when free posts are announced in the Supreme Court, there is always talk of a particular chamber, so that the person who competes for the Supreme Court will know which chamber it is, and can demonstrate his experience in this area, show the court's achievements. This charge, I'll be honest, has been repeated for some time, but you shouldn't confuse two categories: the chamber composition... Because if we were to take into account cases that are being decided either by the Supreme Court as a whole or by the House as a whole, it could be said that the President of the Chambers is setting out what is obviously not true and what is a complete simplification. However, it must be indicated that a distinction must be drawn between who is referred to judge in a given Chamber, whether in the procedure for the appointment of a judge or appointment to an IOZ, and who decides on a particular case. And this, of course, is already a matter of both statutory and regulatory regulation. In this respect, it is also worth mentioning that there have been changes in the Supreme Court in such a way that today the rapporteurs are designated in alphabetical order, so there is a far-reaching objectivity of the compositions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Borowski, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u89	I'll continue. I'm going to start again with the Minister who doesn't think so. That'll let you know right away that that's the question. Well, the Disciplinary Chamber, whatever its name is, is a very delicate creation. Namely, she judges judges. And therefore it must be extremely objective, it must not raise any doubts. And when, under the harsh political dispute that we have in Poland today, the judges to this Chamber are appointed by the President, who has so far accepted it, one can say, stood on one side of this dispute, and the Prime Minister, who also stood on one side of this dispute, do you not think that this does not build the credibility of such institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u91	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I first of all do not think that a citizen... that independence, impartiality of the court should be... that the independence of judges and the independence of the courts should be graduated as much as possible depending on who is before this court. I believe that exactly the same properly formed court is to judge a citizen and to judge a citizen who is a judge. This is, in my opinion, the first and fundamental issue. However, it is important to bear in mind this two-step and that the President and Prime Minister's decision area is very narrow, here is only the Prime Minister's participation, in a specific countersignation procedure. For obvious reasons, constitutional, there is no need for the High Senate to explain the meaning and role of the countersignation in any way here. But this is the choice from 3 to 1st place. And not three people elected by the president, but by the elected. Thus, how fate falls depends on what 33 candidates will be, and from this group of 33 professional lawyers fulfilling high criteria, both professional experience and integrity of character, the president of this eleven points to a 5-year term. Then these people are excluded from the draw of the next thirty-three, and the next Supreme Court judges enter this place. [[Yet, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, please, the fourth question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u93	And everything is very nice, Minister, as you described this whole procedure here. There is only one thing: that the second draw should also be carried out by the Supreme Court judge, not by the President and Prime Minister. Because that's what you're in trouble with. It's just balance. But I'm gonna ask you a quick question. You often refer to the Constitutional Tribunal, to the Constitution, to the President of the Constitution, to the Constitution, to all of you, to the Constitution... On 3 December 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that three judges should be appointed as members of the Constitutional Tribunal by the President. First, it wasn't published what was before, so to speak, a crime against the constitution, and then, after two weeks, it was published, but the president didn't think he had to do it. And yet the Constitutional Tribunal ruled. Don't you think it doesn't build the constitutional credibility you're talking about here all the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the question raised by your senator is not at all consistent with the bill we're discussing today. To conclude this thread, it should be made clear that this is a completely different procedure for selecting judges, that the role of the resolution of the Sejm in this regard is different. There may be a number of constitutional seminars on how this procedure is shaped, how it has been done, but there is no point of contact with this law today. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u96	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej, who has fallen victim to his own charity.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u97	Yeah, being too kind to your colleagues isn't the smartest thing because my questions were practically exhausted by Senator Borowski. I'd like to ask you the same thing, but a little different. There's a counter-assignment in this bill. Now imagine that the Prime Minister refuses countersignations, exactly the same as the President, who said that he had the right not to accept it, even though there was already a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. I wanted to talk about it, but Senator Borowski said it already. The Prime Minister doesn't sign. Well, when you choose such a path, this shape of procedure, you enter here the possibility of a wedge. [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u98	Time, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u99	I think, Mr. Senator, that this is... Of course, different scenarios cannot be ruled out. Political situations are diverse, various solutions we have seen. In fact, there are many constitutional procedures that do not find further clarification because they cannot find it. Well, they're a new holistic constitutional standard. At various political and historical stages, this caused some difficulties. We have this shaped presidential model, we have a definite, closed catalogue of acts excluded from countersignations. However, I think the smooth operation of the judicial system in disciplinary matters is such a serious social issue... Yeah, but it's for the judges. Although I believe that courts should meet the same standard regardless of who they think they are, I do know that this raises public interest. The role of these judgments is so important that it is very difficult for me to imagine a situation in which both the President and the Prime Minister would like to take responsibility, including political and social responsibility, for the failure of disciplinary justice. Of course, there are also provisions that say that the term of office is continued, that cases are being closed, and therefore here is the safeguard procedure. I understand the senator's question. Of course, you can imagine different scenarios, but I think that in a very large part it is the question of responsibility that will be... Besides, these are the rules that are firmly formulated: the President chooses and there is no possibility here... Of course, the senator will tell me that there is no deadline, but I think the area we regulate will be a strong enough incentive. Let me put this delicately, so as not to say: by coercion to solve this problem, to find a compromise on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. But I will press the Minister. Minister, you have answered this question, but you have not answered Senator Pociej. And I'll ask you... I'm gonna give you that answer and ask you if you don't agree with me. And is it not sometimes the case that the legislator, the creator of the constitution, formulates an article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No And the fact that you have set up a model like this violates the principle of sovereignty and art. 170. Isn't that the way it is?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think that the answer to this question would require a very deep constitutional reflection, because nevertheless, art. 144, which is cited in this context, this is a catalogue which repeats prerogatives, but the prerogatives themselves, together with conditions or additional issues, are, after all, regulated elsewhere. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 144 is not a rule of competence for the President, he is merely talking about what is excluded from the countersignals, and the very basis for specific actions of the President is elsewhere in the Constitution, also in chapters on the legislative process. So I think it's a matter of more thought. But I'm gonna turn that question around a little bit. As I said in my answers to previous questions, here it is very specific to confer judgment on persons who are judges, have experience, have an education and will rule on disciplinary matters for 5 years, of course maximum, while remaining judges of their home chambers. No special Chamber and no special category of Judges shall be created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't hear any more questions. I would like to thank the Minister very warmly. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you very much to the senators for all your questions.]] [[Applause]] Mr Marek Ast has been authorised to present the position of the Members of Parliament's draft law applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There's no envoy. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Sebastian Kaleta, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The law adopted by the Sejm concerns the regulation of organisational matters in the Supreme Court and the issue of disciplinary proceedings concerning judges and responds to emerging doubts as well as a kind of political dispute on the Polish line The European Union. This dispute is to be closed. The amendments which the Senate has tabled may have a significant impact on the nature of the agreement that has been concluded, so I will briefly refer to how strongly they interfere with this law and how they can have an impact on the purpose which the Minister has also outlined, i.e. the non-blackmailable European Union's ability to benefit from the Union's funds due to us. First of all, a certain concern and some source of misunderstandings, the source of the disputes that we are having in Poland, is associated with a conceptual device that appeared during this debate, and which I am somewhat amazed at. He also illustrates a certain state of view of the opposition, but of the Senate majority, on our national community. In light of what Senator Ujazdowski said, for example, which often suggests that we should seek agreement, not stand on radical sides of the dispute... In his report he said that there is no Constitutional Court, there is no KRS, the KRS is evil, and the Supreme Court is not a court. You are living in an alternative legal reality and are trying to prove that only this power, accumulated here, in the Senate is able to implement all the powers of all the authorities, assess which authority is good, which is bad, which is legal and which is illegal, which has legitimacy and which does not have legitimacy. This is basically an extremely anarchic approach for our country. I understand that we have different concepts for the functioning of different bodies, different concepts for the adoption of laws, but if the legislator adopts the law, it is the law. There are proper procedures in the Constitution to repeal this right, that right to change. I think that you are all responsible, we are also responsible, and we should work here at a certain level, at least at a minimum level of respect for our constitution. I simply do not agree with this approach, because it really distorts the sense of adopting certain laws, because the delegation of law in Poland weakens our country. And we all know exactly what circumstances, including historical circumstances, we are currently in. Such a statement by the state that the Supreme Court is illegal, that the National Judicial Council is illegal... In your far-reaching political plan to anarchise the Polish state, you are trying to assign such statements or statements also to international tribunals which would allegedly make such statements. Well, with all my might, I'd like to make a statement. 'Cause we've got people watching and reporting on the media. That there is no sentence in the operative part of the finding of the unlawfulness of any body of our state. There's no such thing as judgment. Of course, the Court of Justice of the European Union has spoken about the Disciplinary Chamber and its functioning, but in no way has it undermined the legality of the Disciplinary Chamber. Yes, he questioned whether such a functioning chamber within the Supreme Court gave all guarantees to those who were before the Supreme Court, but did not question the validity of its operation. That's the key. In general, the entire case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union is based on those farthest-reaching thesis that cast doubt on the Supreme Court. They all focus on one concept, which is by all means subjective, judgmental, in no way classified a given problem as legal or illegal, i.e. in zero-single mode. I'll quote... This appears in many judgments and this is very important in the context of seeking an agreement with the European Union. Impression-based case-law is the basis for the fact that, as the impression changes and the parties to the dispute judge, we have the same impression, that the dispute can be closed. In this judgment of 112 of 15 July 2021, it is indicated that a number of circumstances concerning the Disciplinary Board may raise reasonable doubts as to the inability of this body to be externally affected, in particular the direct or indirect influence of the Polish legislative and executive authority and its neutrality with regard to the interests that are at stake before it and thus lead to the absence of visible signs of independence or impartiality of that body, which could undermine the confidence that the judiciary should have in individuals in democratic society and in the rule of law. High Senate, this is a formulation which is based on several general clauses, on several directly indicated factors of purely subjective assessment. For me, something may mean that something inspires my trust or does not inspire my trust, but in another person it may be completely the opposite. This is the perverseness of this test, which the Court of Justice points out all the time in all judgments against Poland. In order to satisfy constitutional conditions, I am talking about the prohibition of questioning the status of judges, referring to the various thesis of the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union, also in a distorted way... The Act meets these constitutional requirements following the changes we have made in the course of parliamentary work. In the meantime, since the President's submission of the project, something has become very important. The Court of Justice has clarified the case-law on what happens when such questions are of a purely subjective nature. And they're probative, they're justified in cases involving arrest warrants. This is Senator Brejza... Too bad he's not here, 'cause I'd like to straighten out some of the stuff he was talking about. I'll give you C-562/21 and C-563/21. This is very important, because in those judgments that are... This is the third attempt by the Court of Justice to refer to the execution of Poland's applications for a European arrest warrant. The Minister spoke of it. But the very important thing is that the Court of Justice... We are talking about a purely European arrest warrant instrument, this is a European instrument, so the Court of Justice's conditions for implementing this instrument... It is his responsibility to assess whether this instrument can be implemented in a given country or not. It is clear from the case-law of the Court of Justice, including from the last judgment, just at the end of February, that the only possibility, when, due to the shortcomings of the rule of law or doubts, those which I have quoted, could be challenged in a case-by-case case the possibility of executing this arrest warrant, is to conduct an individual test at the request of the party. This party, the suspect, the wanted one, must provide evidence that in his particular case this particular judge does so after his appointment, that there are doubts, also considering the context of the individual case which the court is looking into after the execution of the arrest warrant, or that judge... i.e. that this suspect may be deprived of material procedural rights, the examination of the case by an impartial court established by law. This is a test and this test has not been transposed into the premises of the presidential project. There's no doubt here that it's obvious that the judge who has... There was such a famous case in Gdansk that the judge performed at the rally next to the sleep. President Adamowicz, and today she was deciding his wife's case. They protested about the courts. Someone might say that there are doubts as to whether this judge is impartial. This law makes it possible to apply in such cases, of course, if it finds out that this has an impact on the outcome of the case. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because you are seeking in your amendments to say that the Supreme Court judges were never judges and that this chamber was never a court. Well, if the state's view were correct, it seems to me that the European Commission and the Court of Justice, to which you refer, as you once did, two hundred and dozen years ago, some figures in our history referred to certain external authorities... Since this National Plan for Reconstruction, this agreement between Poland and the European Commission indicates that the understanding of the judgment of July 2021 is such that if certain circumstances around the Disciplinary Chamber, i.e. the autonomy of the Supreme Court, the assembly, the appointment of all judges outside the Supreme Court at one time as part of the new procedure for the appointment of the Supreme Court, give rise to a negative impression, raise doubts, then the judges should have a guaranteed path of reopening proceedings before another judicial authority, which will no longer raise such doubts. But what does this wording mean in the National Plan for Reconstruction agreement? Well, since there is a verification path, that means that what was previously issued is important, means that it was handed down by the court, means that it was handed down by the judges. If the judge has doubts as to whether there has been a particular circumstance in his case which raises doubts as to the impartiality of those judges, he has the right to request that this be checked. If he has the right to lodge, if that is the right to apply for verification, that means that until the judge lodges his application and another court composition does not recognise it, it is important. What is important, this concerns only judgments concerning judges, and the Disciplinary Board is examining cases concerning different legal professions. In an agreement with the European Commission, the European Commission understands these rulings of the EUSF, it is not my understanding, it is the European Commission's. Of course I have some doubts, the Ministry of Justice has some doubts about the power of these judgments, but in the circumstances in which we find ourselves, this kind of reasoning is very logical reasoning. If we want to increase confidence in our country also at the level of the European Union, then we can do so, of course, by being fully convinced that there is no such doubt. But the state still insists that this is not a court, that they are not judges, as if blindly striving for this anarchy. And yet you say that money is needed, you say that there are external threats. We're really... We may not have put our reasoning under the ax, because we are consistent, but at least we understand that what is proposed in the National Plan for Reconstruction does not violate the system, increases the guarantee, but does not state that what has been done so far was done wrong or was It's illegal. This concerns the fact that the European Union has doubts. Well, there you go. We're going to raise standards. If this law enters into force, what standards will be in Poland, and what standards will be in Germany? In Poland, the judge is not responsible for directing preliminary questions, he cannot answer. And do you know that in Germany, a judge cannot send a question for a preliminary ruling without the consent of the President of the Tribunal? Now that's the case before the TSUE. And where is the German KPO? In Germany, money is already spent. The second thing is the immunity of the jury. In order to repeal it, it is simply necessary in Poland that we do not know what actions to do. The D.A. has to execute them so that the judge can stand trial at all. In Germany or France, the judge has no immunity, but they somehow live in democracy. And no one reports to Brussels that the judges are under some kind of repression. The judge's removal from the profession. I'm already skipping those precepts that in the bill... Once this law enters into force, Poland will have the most narrow catalogue of disciplinary offences of judges throughout the European Union. I'm going back to the issue of removal by profession. In Germany, at the request of the Bundestag, the Constitutional Tribunal shall be removed if there has been a breach of the Constitution. A few cases known from the media are nothing but violations of the constitution by some judges. In Germany, that's how they'd solve it. And no one has a problem with that kind of law in there. Perhaps that's why the judges don't question... No, I'm sorry, one judge from Erfurt wrote two years ago to the court of justice that the court president is telling him not to rule on the Volkswagen case. He showed the judgments of the Federal Court of Justice, which by its own means is appointed directly by German politicians and by the Minister of Justice. Well, in this great diesel scandal, the consumer claims of the citizens are far removed. And imagine that the judge wrote that he was uncomfortable, because the President of the court points out that these cases are not to be dealt with because they are bad for the German interest. In this federal court, the judges appointed by German politicians dismiss citizens' claims, while at the same time being by the Minister of Justice... He says, what am I supposed to do? After all, this is an uncomfortable situation for me, it interferes with my independence. Do you think the TSUE has given any judgment on this matter? He suspended the procedure because a few months ago, a question about the diesel scandal occurred. The TSUE suspended the question asked two years ago by a German judge, a question about his independence. He suspended this procedure due to the question of another German court for consumer claims from the diesel scandal. Well, what's more important? It's just an excuse. In Poland, the media began to describe this case, and the Erfurt judge has to wait. What I am talking about is very important, High Senate, because your proposals aim to delegate an important element of the functioning of our state, to delegate the status of judge. I give you examples of how judges are invoked, in which disciplinary environment they operate. No one's questioning that. And the question that concerns the KRS. Well, that'll be another point, which we're a little surprised about. This has to do with the appointment of judges. There's no problem with the KRS, there's no problem with that. This is your imaginary problem. The voters elected such a parliamentary majority and such a president. The government decided to change the system in the process of appointing judges, which is part of the Polish constitution. Of course, you may have another idea on this, because the constitution allows other solutions. This is your law as a Senate majority to propose such changes. However, it is unacceptable to claim that these changes, which are currently in force, are contrary to the Polish Constitution or violate any standards of international law. Why? Currently, the National Court of Justice operates in the same way as in Spain, in the same way. I will say more: in Spain, the law does not guarantee, it can be said, to the various parties, to the judicial and political environment, a minimum number of recommendations to the national judicial council. And that's the same solution, that's how it's worked for 20 years. And someone has a problem, someone says it violates the rule of law. I will tell you more: I sometimes meet with the Ministers of Justice of the European Union, and I spoke with the Minister of Justice of Spain a few months ago. I asked: Minister, how do you feel when you hear these accusations against Poland, which the Commissioner is making? We have rules like you when it comes to appointing judges. She says really? We're comparing the next points, and she's all surprised. Well, maybe she thought another tranche of KPO would try to stop them. But for now, Spain has an easier path here than we have. But why am I talking about this? Because some of you say the KRS is unconstitutional. There is no Constitutional Court and there is no Constitutional Court either, because it is unconstitutional. Only that if you look at the Spanish Constitution, you will see that the provision indicating how the members of the National Courts are called is the same as in Poland. The Constitution refers to the Act on Members of the Judges, indicating only in the wording of the provision that it is to be judges, and in the rest it indicates that the respective Chambers of Parliament are calling... And the legislator's freedom is left as to how to determine the procedure for the selection of the judicial part. Identical as in Poland and nobody has a problem with it. I don't know, maybe they have so little creative opposition... But it's been working for 20 years. It is unacceptable to put our system solutions in that light. Of course, you can propose others, but you can't say that they are illegal, they don't function properly and that this procedure causes that in Poland there are no appointed judges. Mr. Senator Brejza I'm sorry he's not here. He wanted to shine a little out of his sleeve, pulling one of TSUE's judgments here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, there are hundreds of judgments on a similar subject. The Minister has rightly pointed out the aspect of this case. I'm going to extend it a little bit so the High Senate can understand the manipulation that has emerged in the context of this ruling. It is a matter of fact that there have been vacant positions in the European Union court and a competition has been held for these positions. During this competition, 3 seats were to be filled with more seats than the notice indicated, and in one of the employee cases the court pointed out that there was a problem with these appointments. What did the TSUE find? The senator here referred to such a phrase as the need to examine from the office the independence and impartiality of the court. Well, it was supposed to be three judges, and it was supposed to be four or five. The TSUE stated that, of course, these are some minor formal deficiencies, that this is a well-appointed judge, despite this formal error. And somewhere there's a context that needs to be studied. It's official independence. This is why such inserts are made in the rulings of the TSUE, so that someone can invoke it in a different context so that he can refer to it. And the proper context is that there was a formal error in the appointment of a judge and that this can be examined from the office. But this ruling cannot be invoked at the Polish level. I would remind you that there is no appeal against such decisions in the case of a court of the European Union. Moreover, the EUSF judges are set up by the European Council, set up governments and there is no appeal. So the TSUE works for its needs, because since there are no appeal paths... Well, at some point, if anyone had any doubts, you can say that the calling is correct. Only that in Poland there is an appeal against the resolution of the KRS, is the examination of the legality of the adoption of resolutions, so this problem does not exist in the Polish context. Marshal Morawska-Stanecka, who is no longer here, asked whether the Minister is aware of the cases that the judges are above the law. Well, your star, Judge Juszczyszyn, was driving in an area built over 100 km... [[It's some kind of epithets. What's this?]] Well, I don't know, maybe it's not a star to you... But I think she's a star. For you. [[To us, you're the star!]] Judge Juszczyszyn was driving in a built-up area The police stopped him. More than 100 km/h. Did he take responsibility? Did he get at least 50 zlotys? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He showed the judge's ID, the police wrote to the college of the court, and the college of the court said that it was such a trivial matter that he didn't even need to be reprimanded. Judge who at the gas station Well, the distracted one took 50 zlotys. All of Poland saw... [[Voice from the hall: Sausage stole.]] [[Screwdriver...]] Exactly. Exactly. There have been cases, you see, Mr. Senator, that reminds you of those cases. And that's the kind of thing that upset the public. And the most shocking thing was that in prosaic, simple cases where ordinary citizens would just have to appear in court and answer, the judge is above the law, because he's the judge, he's got his ID, that's all. This is the most outrageous. The amendments you have tabled regarding the validity of decisions... the Minister has already said so. You must be aware that there are matters of a more serious nature, criminal nature, where such a waiver by virtue of the law of a decision to waive immunity will result in the prosecutor being forced to drop the proceedings and the case is likely to have the quality of res judicata and cannot be reopened. So that this proposal is a little bit, too, to say unthinkable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Why are we doing this bill today? Is it because it is about how his representative quoted the President's ending of disputes with the European Commission? Is it because someone's forcing us to do this, that someone's pushing us? I am convinced that it is not true that at least for our part of the room The reason why we are doing what we are doing today, i.e. we are improving this far imperfect law, is simply that we want to have a good law in Poland, that we want the rule of law in Poland, and citizens have the opportunity and the right to be judged in independent courts. We do this because it is necessary to repair the judicial system of the Republic of Poland. Yes, we are also doing this to repair the damage that has already been done to the Republic, so that its interests will prevail. For where does the whole problem come from? Today we are dealing with such a situation that tens of billions of euros, hundreds of billions of dollars for Poland have been held back for more than a year. Well, the answer is, of course, very simple, although tragic. This is due to the fact that the ruling party has been seeking to subdue its courts for almost seven years. She wants the courts to belong to her. He wants these courts not to be independent so that they can be controlled to be their own. It is a far-reaching goal realized since 6.5 years by the ruling party of the PiS. If anyone had any doubts As for this, it's enough to quote the news from today. Today, an e-mail was released, which Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, sent to his then secretary in the case of... Judge Paweł Juszczyszyn heard disciplinary charges. And the Prime Minister wrote: "I also have a request to download these 3 entries from Mrs Manowska, who quoted at dinner yesterday. Maybe Paul could get it from her and give it to me to the bullets today, too, quickly? You have about 45 minutes of time, but the job is very important. This future relationship, because the mail is from 2019, the first President of the Supreme Court with the President-in-Office, who tells him how to respond to disciplinary charges against the judge, charges, I remind you, the Disciplinary Chamber we are discussing today shows the entire pathology of the justice system built by the PiS. Because, of course, Mrs Manowska was already a judge of the Supreme Court at the time, she was not the first president yet, but perhaps thanks to such suppers she was promoted a year later to her post. Ladies and gentlemen, the pretext for this brutal plowing for 6.5 years of free courts by the PiS, which began, I remind you, by tampering with the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, was, of course, a selection: we will improve the courts. But history showed they weren't improved, they were ruined. As in 2015, the average court hearing in the first instance lasted 4 months, so lasted 7 months a year ago. It's almost twice as long as the trial lasts. So the only reason to bully the judges is to appoint a Disciplinary Chamber, a media chase. It was, of course, connected with the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber that Polish judges were afraid to deliver judgments that are inconvenient to the current authority. This is a model known in countries aimed at authoritarianism, reproduced by President Kaczyński by such political personalities as Mr Orbán or Mr Erdogan. What are the costs? Let us be clear: the costs are such that Poland has been waiting for a year for potential... but it is a potential over PLN 200 billion, of which more than PLN 20 billion, or almost EUR 5 billion has already been lost, because these were advances that could only be used until the end of last year, 2021. But at the expense of this kind of practice, especially the failure to recognise European courts' judgments, the penalties that have been paid and which are already 1 billion zlotys. The whole society pays for trying to take the courts under the shoes of the PiS. We want to fix it today. There's a far insufficient bill coming to us. We want to make fundamental amendments to it, which will improve it, mainly so that Polish courts are independent and independent, and so that those who want to be obedient tools of power in the repression of other judges can no longer do so. Senator Ujazdowski, draftsman of the committee, spoke deeply about these amendments. I would also like to add that part of this problem is, of course, also the National Judicial Council. This problem has also been recognised by the European institutions. But once again: the Senate will propose to repair the National Courts, because this is the interest of Poland, so that Polish courts are healthy and independent, not because As in the case of colleagues from the ruling party who were forced to press someone. Polish courts are to be efficient and independent. That's our goal. That is why the Senate is doing this and the Senate, as I am convinced, will vote tonight on these fundamental amendments aimed at increasing or restoring judicial independence. Poland deserves both to restore the rule of law to independent courts and to finally get that money after more than a year of waiting for tens of billions from the European Union. I am convinced that today's Senate decisions will bring both these goals closer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Unlike the Minister, the Minister has decided to tighten our discussion. We can still do that. But I'll start with these comparisons with other systems. Germany. Well, how's the whole German system... I will no longer speak of purely political, that this is a federal state, etc., that the president can't do anything there, is the first lady. Taking one thing out of the whole system and showing it: and, look, it's different there... Yeah, because everything's different. You said the minister about Spain. As far as I can remember. And we used these comparisons. In Spain, even the king has a role to play at the Constitutional Court. Do you have a king here? Unless someone from the United Right claims to be king. [[Voice from the room: Analogia...]] So it's taken out again. And that's hard. But I'm gonna ask about that judge from Erfurt. What was his fate? Was the entire disciplinary chamber built there to push him, the chamber that's gonna take care of him? No. Did... [[The voice from the room:... that they threaten him.]] They're threatening him. This needs to be dealt with, of course, as well as the whole hater net that... [[Exactly.]] ...the disobedient judges chased. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] Minister Kalet puts it this way, as if the Senate would be everything. possibly guilty: we may not get money from KPO. It has been mentioned here for a while, but I will repeat: we have lost the advance because you were pushing about whether to do it at all or not, whether the president should do it one way or another, or we will accept something. We've lost over a year. This project with us is being processed within a week of the adoption in the Seym, instantly, we even held a special meeting. Remind me, how much was he kept in the Seym? Two months? Three months? Are we to blame? You gotta be kidding me. I will return to these infamous successive amendments to the Supreme Court laws. Too bad Minister Wójcik or Minister Piebiak isn't here anymore. Because they came here and every time they assured us that this was a really good project, that we were picking on, just like the Minister said today, that we were picking on something. Then, a month later, it came back because every time it turned out that what we said or our Legislative Office had to be put into this amendment. Mr. President even vetoed one of these wonderful projects. And now I would like to ask you about the President's role in all this, because it took a few years, unfortunately, to start some small step in the right direction. This project Unfortunately, there is no one here from the right side of the room, from the Law and Justice, who... I remember these discussions with us when we said that we thought there would be misfortune, among others. in connection with this emergency chamber that we are working on today, and in this case we will vote on changes. The answers were this: it's all right, we're safe. Mr. President then signed it. So? Now he realizes it needs to be changed? I'd like to know that, but listening to the speech today, and the Minister, and the Minister... It kept coming back that it was really about the money. On the other hand, the Minister said that it was about introducing clear, clear rules of professional responsibility. Well, such a statement, first of all, is in contrast to the fact that we need to get some compromise, because Brussels is strangling us, and secondly, it would mean that that state did not provide clear and clear rules of professional responsibility. If that's the conclusion, then you've allowed it. I'm talking about the President's office and the Ministry of Justice. For this to last for 6 or 5 years, and only when Brussels pressed it properly, we change it. Well, it's really not the happiest setting of what's important and what's relevant to citizens. And finally, this issue of countersignation. It is clear from all our exchange that, in order to protect this decision-making political umbrella, i.e. to leave the decision in the hands of the President, not as suggested by Senator Borowski, but to leave it to the judges, you are introducing the possibility of a wedge. That countersign... I know you haven't imagined it yet. That in a year and a half or a year is cohabitation. Well, in life, these two institutions, when they come from two different broadcasts and two different political camps, do not get along. You put in this bill to defend the political ability to influence, a mechanism that will be dangerous. I'm glad it finally went in that direction, in any good direction. I'm glad you're de facto admitting that you were wrong, and we were right, and your attacks on us six years ago were wrong. You're the ones who made the mistake, and now you're trying to fix it, but you're fixing it only partially again. You do not touch what is actually the original sin. You don't want to fix this KRS bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! How much nerve it takes in this House to talk about the anarchy of law in Poland when it moved itself. How much nerve it takes to invoke the Constitution in this House, since it has been broken many times. Finally: how much nerve does it take to refer to the concept of impartiality of courts, since it has led to the fact that the judicial system in Poland is internationally recognised as being subject to political power? Do you count on our amnesia? Do you think we've forgotten everything? Do you think that the citizens in Poland do not remember this great operation that was launched in December 2015 and continues until today? After all, it was this operation that made Poland head-on in the rankings on democracy and the rule of law, starting with rankings of such renowned centres as Freedom House in the United States, and ending with analytical centres in Europe. ♪ And though it is ♪ Fortunately, the difference between Poland and Hungary, which was unfortunately recognised by most of these centres as an authoritarian country, is, however, Poland, due to this huge operation carried out since December 2015, is referred to as a country slipping from democracy. So you can't look at everything we're talking about today, including this bill, through the keyhole. You have to look at it in the context of this big operation that's been going on for the last six years. But also, given only a fragment of what you have done with the Polish judiciary, it is necessary to recall what has happened in the last year, since mid-July last year, since the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the disciplinary system of the judiciary in Poland is incompatible with the law of the European Union, and when he committed Poland to immediately suspend the provisions of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. What are the consequences of these decisions being ignored? Ano such: 952 million 457 thousand PLN, which Poland is to pay for the fact that the governing camp decided not to respect the principles of independent judiciary and introduce in Poland a Disciplinary Chamber, which is a whip on independent judges. This amount is growing from one second to the next. At the end of the speech, I will read to you if it has increased. In the meantime, those judges who were and are still faithful to the principle of judicial independence, objectivity and impartiality of judges were subjected to repression. Because it's going on! The day before yesterday, if I recall correctly, 64 disciplinary charges were made against Judge Zurek. 64 disciplinary charges! You know perfectly well. I ask the governing camp all the time that 3 cases, 3 conditions were laid down by the European Commission so that the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction, funds for Poland from the Fund for Reconstruction were unblocked. You've known this for months, it's nothing new, there's nothing revealing about it. And only now, after we've lost so much money It's now 952 million 462 thousand, so it beats this meter, and I'm not counting Turova here! The State is submitting in this House, the Sejm is proposing a law in this House, which is actually an attempt to solve the problem in a way that is apparent. I would like to point out: the apparent solution to the problem. And this side of the Senate Hall calls for this law to be voted without amendments, possibly with some minor amendments, minor changes. Well, this law needs to be substantially improved, because it does not cure the causes. She fakes the treatment of symptoms. Since there is no will of the ruling majority to heal the Polish justice system from the disease into which the camp of the governing justice system drove, it remains only and only to improve this law. And that's what we're doing right now. We are doing this with the awareness that it is merely correcting that there is no fundamental change here. We're doing this for two reasons. First of all, because it is about the welfare of our citizens. The idea is that each Polish woman and every Pole will have a chance to benefit from the funds granted to Poland under the Fund for Reconstruction. This is an enormous amount, because the EUR 36 billion saved in KPO at the current rate gives about PLN 165 billion. These are resources for health care, for improving the education system, for modern technologies, for the green economy. These are measures to rebuild after the pandemic, as well as measures to support our country in a situation where there is a terrible war going on outside the eastern border. Because of this we undertake what in this case is only slipping on the surface. I repeat: what we're doing today is improving the apparent solution, that's slipping on the surface of the justice system. In order to remedy the justice system, it would be necessary to go much further, firstly, to restore the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was subject to political power between December 2015 and December 2016. It's not about who's with whom, who's invited to dumplings, because they're just pictures. This is the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal is subject to political power. Secondly, it would be necessary to amend the Law on the Supreme Court as Poles wanted in July 2017, when several hundred thousand people appeared on the streets of Polish cities and protests took place in 250 cities in Poland. After these protests, the President decided to submit proposals for two new laws: the Law on the National Judicial Council and the Law on the Supreme Court. In the Supreme Court Act, the Disciplinary Chamber has been registered. The Sejm accepted this project, in the Senate most of the PiS adopted this project at that time. So the government camp is fully responsible for creating a problem that it is currently trying to solve seemingly, partially. Do we, as democratic opposition, have a hand in this? I think so. And that's the decision we made, but this decision is conditional. The only condition for repairing this one selected piece of corrupt justice is the adoption of the amendments that we have tabled today. If these amendments are accepted, this bill will be supported by us. But we do not give up on making justice whole and restoring its independence. Therefore, work is necessary on the Law on the National Council of Courts, because there is the original sin of what I spoke about earlier, i.e. the dependence of justice on political power. The KRS is the place from which all bad trends in Poland originate. I'm not talking about who's represented there, who's a member of the KRS, etc. I am talking about how the National Judicial Council is designated, how unconstitutionally the term of office of the predecessor of the current National Judicial Council has been interrupted. I am talking about the fact that even international public opinion has decided to exclude the Polish National Courts from the Association, from the European Network of Councils of Courts. Our National Judicial Council... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator...]] ...who was one of the founders of the European Judicial Council Network. That's a sign of something. That is why it is absolutely necessary to sanction the National Judicial Council so that the National Judicial Council is again, as before, a body independent of political authority, because it is not at the moment. Therefore, Mrs Marshal, I believe that these two matters must go in parallel: on the one hand amendment, together with amendments to this law, which came to us from the Sejm and, on the other hand, proceding the Act on the National Council of Courts so that it is repaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for replacing me in the proceedings and giving me the opportunity to speak. Dear Senators, I will start with Twitter information, of course not yet official information. Zbigniew Kuźmiuk wrote just a moment ago that the European Commission had just given a positive opinion to the Polish CPO and today the President of the European Commission will present the European Commission's position on this issue at a press conference. I look forward to this conference. Of course, that's good news. Good news not for politicians of Law and Justice, but good news for Poland and Poles. After all, the essence of this dispute, the essence of the whole legislative process is that Poland's money granted negotiated, Poland's due to be finally unlocked and flowed to the Polish budget, to the Polish economy in such a difficult objectively for the whole of Europe, for the whole world of time. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech may be of a more digressive nature, because at the committee meeting we had already discussed substantive amendments. I regret that the president's representatives, the government's representatives, were unable to accept any of your amendments. This, however, shows the total nature of the debate in the Senate. I was reminded of the debate practically exactly a year ago, when this country, with almost incredible stubbornness, contrary to the constitution, contrary to doctrine, contrary to opinions, pushed this unfortunate preamble to ratify the Fund for Reconstruction. And we really lost 15 days in the Senate just to make sure that you didn't have one vote in the final vote to get this preamble out. A number of amendments are indeed very dangerous, very dangerous, directly contrary to the fundamental constitutional principles, such as the principle of the impermanence of a judge of his own motion. It is not possible to repair justice in this way, it is impossible to have on your mouth constantly the words about democracy, about the rule of law, about free courts and try to fix it in such a way that Senator Ujazdowski goes out into the pulpit and in a subjective way says that the Disciplinary Chamber was not a court, therefore the judges sitting there are not judges and can, uglylylylylylylyly say, throw them on their head. Ladies and gentlemen, the judges are judges, they are appointed by the President. This is undermining the absolute pillars of the state. This is undermining the prerogatives of the President. It's actually an anarchy of a country that hasn't been in the Senate before. And this anarchy, of course, takes the entire term of office, because you are questioning, you can say, all the ideas, all the legislative projects that are coming to you from the Sejm. You think that if you don't rule, you won't actually accept anything, that until you rule, there is no law in Poland. I remind you that the election verdict, already two times, has made Law and Justice rule once again, and President Andrzej Duda has the second term of office as President. Therefore, this social verdict cannot be ignored either. Society expects a very deep reform of the justice system. This reform has the right to happen in Poland. Not much, she's absolutely necessary. The justice system is in very many areas in a deep crisis. And this is still a great challenge not only for the legislative authority, but also for the judiciary itself. Unfortunately, in this judiciary there is no will to self-clean up, self-reform. It is characteristic of any environment which is corporate, closed, caste, that such an environment will not clean itself. And it should be obvious to anyone who has at least a little experience in life, although he knows a little about social, political or legal processes. A threefold division of power doesn't mean that judicial authority is above the law, it's overpowering. It is the same power as the others as the legislative and executive powers. It does not upset anyone that the elections to the Sejm and to the Senate are judged by an independent court that, in terms of many competences, the executive and legislative authorities complement each other, for example. the government has a legislative initiative, etc., etc. And any attempt to balance this independence, this distinctness of judicial authority, is always a hysterical protest of the interested ones themselves. As long as no one gets in their way, as long as they go out on their own, as long as they're rewarded, promoted, evaluated, as long as everything's okay. But this is a situation that's not right. This is a situation directly, in my opinion, contrary to the constitution, with the true concept of the three divisions of power, i.e. the concept of the authorities, which, while maintaining their distinctness, inhibit each other, control each other and affect each other to a certain degree. It was mentioned here that it is illegal to invoke an analogy, e.g. German. I'm not going to go into the details here, because I know these distinctities, but the mechanism is the same everywhere, i.e. there is a certain influence of the executive authority, the legislative authority, on the functioning of the justice system. The fact that judges are elected to the National Courts of Justice does not affect their independence in any way. This is just the issue of control at the selection stage, identifying individual members to specific bodies. The rest are already in the hands of independent judges. Independence is in the mind, in the heart and in the conscience. No one shall order any member of the National Courts to make such or other decisions in the course of his office. So there's a whole lot of demagogy in this whole discussion. Contrary to appearances, the dispute over this mythical rule of law is primarily a political dispute, not a legal dispute. This is a dispute about domination, about power, about so-called. The empire, that is, the extent of power that can be exercised in certain areas. The European Union has been saying this since the very beginning when I am a senator Very efficient and thoughtful, but completely contrary to the Treaties, it extends its empire of power in the area of judicial authority, because it takes over the competence of the Member States in this area, which is not enshrined in the Treaties. It is the Member States that are entitled to regulate the justice system. Unfortunately, they cannot do this in a sovereign and independent way, because that is when the rule of law immediately appears. When she shows up, we see. There are countries of the first and second categories, there are those who are free more, those who are slow less. It all has a political taste, it's discretionary, it's purely subjective, and it can't be allowed to do that. If we unanimously adopt the concept of a European State, if these competences were passed on by the Member States to the European institutions, then we agree. But that's never been consented to. The concept of the European State has fallen apart and the Treaties are still in force. As Senator of the Republic of Poland, I am primarily concerned with the good of my country, I am concerned with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as a legal act of the highest rank and that is what I will follow. And that is why all these voices, which so easily depreciate the competences of the Polish state in certain areas, disappoint me very much in the Senate and disappoint me very much in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this political dispute about KPO, about the Polish justice system, about the rule of law will be resolved. It is also a matter of our sovereignty, our equality in the European Union and Once again, I would like to stress that. The powers of the Member State arising from both the Treaties and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I wish you that this debate should end in such an atmosphere that we do not turn this compromise upside down today, which has been worked out in such a great deal in the Seym with the President, for which I thank the representatives of the President and the Government from this place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u115	Miss Marshal! High Senate! The history of the adoption of the National Reconstruction Programme is a range of facts mixed with myths. It is worth reminding them today, because there is no doubt that the real pretext for passing today's law is EU money. High Senate, if we were to spend 1 cm of this sash every day waiting for funds from the Rebuilding Fund, it would mean 30 days of time in which the Senate took care of it. And this sash 501 cm is the time in which the reconstruction program was handled by the government, keeping this program in the drawers. Political games in your own group and fear of the rule of law were more important to you than the fate of Poles. And this is the true dimension of caring for the money of Poles and the true scale of lying, which is poured out of party-government propaganda. 30 days of the Senate 500 days of the government and the PiS. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, nearly EUR 100 billion have already gone to the various countries in the form of grants, including Italy and Spain for about 19 billion, France for 12 billion, Greece and Romania for 4 billion. And to Poland, zero. I would therefore like to remind you that on 21 July 2020, the European Council, with the participation of Prime Minister Morawiecki, took decisions that allowed the Fund to be mobilised. Morawiecki boasted at the time that he negotiated the biggest aid measures in history for Poland. But when the European Parliament regulation on a conditionality system to protect the EU budget was published on 16 December 2020, the piS politicians' hunt for the European Union began in Poland. Until now, Minister Ziobro and Prime Minister Morawiecki are racing in it. Finally, after 140 days on 4 May 2021, the Sejm adopts its own resources law, and PiS launches attacks on the Senate, that it delays the adoption of the bill and thus the Brussels accountant cannot send a cheque to Poland for EUR 100 billion. And although only after 23 days, because on 27 May the bill was adopted by the Senate, the money has not yet been sent to Poland. And it is another 370 days, and it is only today in the Senate that we are considering a law which, according to the rulers, is to end this already 531 days marathon, during which Poles cannot wait for EU funds. High Senate, we are fighting for huge money, so much needed by Poles and Poles, increasingly pressed by inflation. But in parallel, there is also a struggle for values, for rule of law, for democracy and for the sustainability of the pillars of the democratic system. For this democracy, for which generations of Poles and Poles shed blood. The story of this fight is the story of our parents, grandparents, great-grandparents. There is no Polish family or generation that would not be mutilated by the struggle for democracy. Allow me to recall the words of a man whom, from the perspective of today's knowledge, we must certainly recount and certainly critically, but the words which he once said and to whom I wish to appeal have not lost value. Almost exactly 35 years ago, on June 12, 1987, in Gdansk Pope John Paul II said: "Each of you finds in life some Westerplatte." I was at Westerplatte with the Pope as a student of the Catholic University. I learned that a world based on Catholic social teaching, which has the principles of subsidiarity and a threefold division of power and which sees man's likeness to God in having freedom of choice is an alternative to any authoritarianism and dictatorship. After the era of partitioning, including after this German-Russian realized on 17 September 1939, after the experience of communism, but also after 7 years of destroying the pillars of democracy in Poland today it is worth asking: where is our Westerplatte? I have no doubt. It is the defence of values and our presence in Europe. In a Europe that has grown into a Christian tradition that respects the rule of law and protects human freedom, that is, what is also written in Catholic social teaching. In the European community to which we joined in 2004, and since then our GDP has increased by 20% compared to the European average, and to those so disliked by a part of this House of Germany. Okay, that's about 15%. We're growing faster than the West. Our Westerplatte is defending our presence in the European Union, thanks to which we received ca. 150 billion more than we put in it, as you can see everywhere: thousands of kilometers of highways, hundreds of sewage treatment plants, thousands of kilometers of waterworks. In my city, Elbląg, EU funds have created investments worth PLN 1 billion. It is worth to close your eyes and see your city without those investments that have been made in our localities with the participation of EU funds. It is only a blind man or a pest that can say that there is an alternative for Poland outside the European Union. Our Westerplatte is also providing security for Poles. During Russia's aggression on Ukraine, it was a shame to remind you of it. It won't be provided by Viktor Orbán. Only a common European and NATO policy can guarantee that Putin will not invade Poland, just as he has invaded Ukraine. But that's not all. Climate challenges, water struggle, clean air, and even starving the world. We are facing the threat of Chinese expansionism. We can't deal with these challenges alone. Our Westerplatte today is to strengthen and expand cooperation with the European Union, to build the European Union and therefore Poland, a new generation. Don't be afraid of it. Do not be afraid of cooperation within Europe. Today, then. We are fighting not only for money from the Fund for Reconstruction, although they are very important. Today we are fighting for Europe to meet the challenges of the 21st century. A more green, digital, crisis-resistant Europe, more united. That is why today in the Senate we point out the conditions that must be met, so that the huge money that is going to go to Poland will serve well for the things for which the Fund for Reconstruction was invented. And that is why I appeal, especially to the Senators and Senators of PiS: do not try to deceive either Poles and Poles or the European Union. And even if you succeed in some way, the answer to the question of what you did with your Westerplatte will only be a testimony to your failure. High Senate, we all watched as one Putin grows stronger, and we turned a blind eye to what we saw. And now we're terrified to see what he's done with that force. Let's learn from this, not only global, but also ours, domestic, and let's not let any Putinko grow in our country. Let us have the courage to defend Westerplatte of our time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u116	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! When I listened to the speeches before me today, I realized where there was a difference between this side and that side of the room. Mr. Marshal Pak said: Every environment is closed, caste. And you guys fought that caste. Piebiak wrote on a closed group: "We need to break the castle." Knock off some caste in the autumn of 2018 Łukasz Piebiak wrote to Michał Lasota, Deputy Chief Disciplinary Officer. The Deputy Minister of Justice wrote this to the Deputy Disciplinary Officer. Lasota nodded, and the second vice-minister, Przemysław Radzik, ordered an anonymous tip to Judge Zurek from the Little Emi. I recall this on the basis of the testimony of the witnesses of the judges who, under the threat of criminal liability, showed how you fought the caste and repaired the justice system. I see this fight hasn't changed for you. Since Mr. Marshal Pęk says that he hopes that this dispute about the rule of law is resolved, because this is a matter of our sovereignty and that we are concerned with the welfare of our own country, and that Minister Kaleta refers to us the words '250 years ago in our history also referred to external authorities', these words cannot be left without comment. 250 years ago there was the first partition of Poland. And the fact that you attribute to someone on the political stage that he represents a national treason camp, while you represent sovereign interests, that's slander and slander! We in this Chamber also represent the Polish state! And when you say that we should not violate Mr. Marshal Pęka again with such difficulty in the compromise reached in the Sejm, I understand that this is a compromise between PiS and Solidarna Poland, because in this compromise citizens, and all the more so the opposition did not participate. And that's the drama that you think you have as the only right to the truth, that there is no other truth, that there is no chance of a right or a conversation. You're gonna rip out the castle because that's how you approach the representatives of the other side. We don't agree to that. We think we just need to listen, talk, respect the other side. You say that the President's representative, the Minister, did not accept any proposal, did not support any opposition proposal. It's us different that we supported 3 today when we thought that they would actually solve a problem. That's the difference between us! We in this Chamber, as a democratic majority, listen to everyone's voices and are able to support a solution that is simply better, and not just those that report ours, because those who are not ours cannot report a good solution. And just so that we can choose this solution right, assuming that we are not the only ones who can work out this better solution, we suggest and advise. We can get out of a lot of trouble together. Because today, out of three milestones, you're really solving one problem, and it's incomplete. And let me remind you, because I don't think some people are aware that the approval of the National Reconstruction Programme is the first step. It is not a guarantee that I should say that the whole agreement has been implemented and that all funds have been received. This is just the beginning of this procedure, because later there is the Council of Finance Ministers of the European Union, who have to formally approve this decision. Only then can Poland ask for the payment of the first instalment of the funds, and then will it have to show that it is implementing specific milestones for the given period. And you forget again that these milestones are not one stone. It is not only the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, but it is also a restoration to the judgment of the Disciplinary Chamber of Judges. How do you do it? You're doing it like a three-card gambler. Judge Juszczyszyn is restored by the court, so President Nawatski restores him, but to another department. And when he comes to work, he finds out he's just been sent on a three-month vacation. If you try to cheat the European Commission, it will end in misfortune, because they are not little children who can be fooled as in a game of three cards kept on a box at the Ten Years Stadium. We put the other milestones in this bill. We're entering a statutory retrial for all judges who, as a result of political disciplinary proceedings... Yeah, political. You have these statistics. The Prime Minister quoted them, only his proportions got confused. 90% cases from the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, not 10% As he said, it was disciplinary proceedings involving the judicial sphere or the task of preliminary questions. I serve the names of these judges. That's why, knowing what your philosophy of making these changes is... Your representative, whom you have re-appointed to the National Court Council, President of Nawatski, shows how he understands the implementation of these agreements. He's just trying to cheat in the context of their implementation. That's why we're proposing a zero-one record. We legally restore all judges to pre-occupied posts with a ban on moving them to another department for 3 years. Thanks to this, you hope that there will be money from European funds, and we have a guarantee that there will be the rule of law in Poland, and there will be money from European funds, because this is the order we must remember. We in this Chamber are asking for justice for the citizen, for judges who do not have to be afraid of political pressure from a disciplinary officer appointed by a judge who receives an order from the Vice-Minister to cut out the hangman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the following conditions, which are written here. This is a clear indication of the right of each judge to ask a preliminary ruling. This is a measure which is a measure available to judges from all 27 European Union countries. We really aren't treated any worse. Do not shed tears that they have worse in Spain, Germany or France. It's worse for us because you can't talk to the European Commission. That's the problem. Because when we present the rations, we can convince the European Commission of the solutions. But when the European Commission feels like you're trying to deceive her, it's like any institution that knows that someone is trying to deceive her. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no conflict between the rule of law and European funds. On the contrary, these things are connected. And we in these amendments, which we have presented to you, are clearly showing that we can have all of this without separating these values. We have a solution to the problem of the existing Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court consisting in the termination of the employment relationship, its extinction. We do not say anything about the vocations that were in this regard. We introduce the principle that there must be judges in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility of the Supreme Court with 7 years of experience. Yes, those of the best, those who have been called in a way that does not raise any doubts; of course, I am talking about the National Judicial Council and this stage of their appointment. As I said, we are restoring judges and restoring the proposal for a test of impartiality, which is not narrowed down by the legislative input at the last stage of the Parliament's legislative work. Yes, we are restoring this principle that citizens will be able to benefit from this solution on clear and clear principles. Ladies and gentlemen, we appeal and ask: support these amendments with us, support these amendments with us, because they give us guarantees of the rule of law in the country and give us absolute assurance that we will not only have an approved National Plan for Reconstruction, but in the future there will be no basis for the European Commission to say that we have not implemented any milestones. Let's finish this chuckle dance that Poles don't deserve. Poles have the right to know that they can have the rule of law and judges on which no one is politically pressured, who will not be afraid to settle cases based on facts and European funds. The amendments that we have prepared in the Senate show that these values can also be reconciled in concrete decisions. Finally, I don't have time anymore, but I am tempted to quote the judgment, the ruling of the Court of Justice of 15 July, which says that in Poland unfortunately independence or impartiality of the courts... [[Timer signal]] ...as a result of the legislative reforms introduced, it has allowed for the introduction of signs of limited confidence in maintaining these values. And that's what I'm dedicating to you as the motto at the end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u118	Thank you, Senator. I'm going to use the ad vocem mode, because you've been very flaming about my speech, really embellishing what I've been saying. All I can tell you is that when we made the first political decisions on the justice system, for a point of reference, we had a judge who was ready to set trial dates on Donald Tusk's orders, of course I'm talking about journalistic provocation. So a little more humility. That's one thing. And secondly, I'm going to go back to what I was talking about at the committee meeting, because you're also very unbelievable in what you're saying, being a member of the KRS you're talking about, and on the other hand, you're saying that your call to the KRS... [[I'm gonna straighten out the information because you're...]] Please let me finish. [[Voice from the room: But what does that mean?]] You say your appointment to the National Court Register is legal, but you question an entire institution that acts on a collegiate basis. Following this lead, it must be said that you actually sit in an institution whose decisions are illegal. So I think you're just a hypocrite here. [[In the corrected mode with respect to the name mentioned.]] [[Voice from the room:... In opposition.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u119	Mr. Marshal, you're not telling the truth. The word "Neo-KRS" was never once mentioned in my statement. As regards the appointment of members of the National Judicial Council, the Court of Justice makes clear: the doubts concern the absence of representatives from the Sejm and the Senate. I understand that you would like the PiS to also cast the two positions that the democratic opposition has filled, documenting all irregularities in the work of the National Courts and any decision that raises doubts as to the proper appointment of its members. Yeah, I know you're always the best at working when you're all together. You have said the wrong thing by saying what words I have used, and you are also missing the truth in the context of the rulings of the Court of Justice, which clearly states where there have been incorrect appointments, which is part of the representation of the National Court of Justice. This does not affect the representatives of the Sejm and the Senate. [[Mr. Marshal, this is not the time for this discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u120	I, Senator, am talking about common decency and honesty. I did not say that you used such words, spoke about the neo-KRS, only that you tolerated these words at the committee meeting, repeatedly also at the Senate meeting, as did the words of the jury of Julia Przyłębska, etc., etc., etc. So, speaking of the rule of law, at the same time, you tolerate public anarchy here. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This matter that we are discussing today is a matter that illustrates the intersection of the two fundamental incompetences of the current authority. I purposely use the words two fundamental incompetences of the current authority, because these incompetences the present authority obviously has a lot. However, two are the most dangerous, but two are the most obvious and two make us talk here today. These two incompetences are incompetence in the area of freedom and democracy within our country and, and this is the second gigantic incompetence of this government team, Polish foreign policy. And I will start with the latter because we are talking here today because the current authority has pushed through this vision of judicial reform, which has met with the fundamental opposition of the European Union, which we all know is threatening to lose. This description of the reality that I have just presented cannot be questioned either by the left or by the right side of this House, because it was simply the case: you have pushed through the law and this law is not accepted by the European Union. You pushed it through because, and here we touch your first incompetence, that it bothers you everything that smells like freedom, freedom and modernity I will add from myself. And today we need to change this law because you have collided with the wall, with the European Union, in which as Poles we are also voluntarily in order to protect us from the temptations of native dictators, what is happening right now. But this is not the only case where your incompetent foreign policy has been ridiculed and ruined. We all remember a greedy woman coming back after her defeat in Brussels, where she lost the 27:1 vote. What was supposed to be a great success for you turned out to be a failure and a disgrace. We remember the Act on IPN signed by the President, passed in the Seym with a few protests, we must admit, representatives of the opposition, who, however, warned that you were going to war with Israel and Ukraine, which you will lose. That's when you were screaming, screaming, calling out traitors. And then what happened? Reach for Israeli newspapers. They described with laughter the envoys of your government, who negotiated at the Mossad headquarters, agreed to everything. There's hard documents. You have withdrawn, and praise God, from this IPN law under the pressure of Israel as disgusting. Another great success of yours is betting on Donald Trump, I'll remind you, Donald Trump, whose election as President of the United States, and yet you knew it well, accompanied, literally, the opening of champagne on the Kremlin. It was Kremlin's candidate and, unfortunately, your candidate. You held him so tight that the President of the Lightest Republic did not congratulate President Biden on his victory. He did it as one of the last ones in the world because you wanted to show the Democrats in Washington that you were smarter than them. This, praise God, ended in a reiterade too. Glory to God, Mr. President had the opportunity to show the Americans, and it's a good thing he did, that he's not their enemy after all. But why would he show it? Because you pushed Poland into another conflict, from which the president pulled you out. Okay, here's the full agreement. A conflict with America about TVN. And what must be particularly astonishing, the command to attack the United States and attack the TVN in this area your boss released when the Americans warned against the coming war in Ukraine. In the autumn of last year, when the media all over the world were full of information that the Americans were warning that the Russians were preparing a war in Ukraine, the Polish leader decided to challenge the Americans and go with them to the war about TVN. Thank God that the president vetoed this unfortunate bill and pulled you out of a problem that you not only pushed yourself into, but unfortunately also pushed Poland into. After all, today, as I said at the beginning, we are talking about the reform of the Supreme Court only because once again you have tried incompetently to do something and now you must withdraw from it. I just reminded you of a few compromises in foreign policy, from which you had to withdraw. Now, cancer again, you're retreating from this unnecessary pseudoreform. Every Pole must ask himself a question today Also the voter, to whom he had the right, to the Law and Justice You have been given a mandate to conduct such a policy. Well, you promised a change, and whatever it was to us who lost the election, painfully, you had the right. We have to respect that. What we are talking about today is unfortunately clear proof that you do not correct Polish politics, but turn it upside down. Moreover, you are overturning it in these 2 areas, which should not be subject to our Polish quarrels. After all, our freedom and our international security are matters that we should agree on. It's got to be in Russia, and it's got to be in Poland if anybody wants to. And that's not the anarchy you're assigning to the freedom here. It is not anarchy, it is the Polish national heritage, it is freedom. This is about our roots in the West. This is not national betrayal, this is the realization of the dreams of generations of Poles. They paid in blood so that we would never be part of the East, that we would always be part of the West. And why do we have to talk about these two issues in the Polish Senate today? Unfortunately, because the current authority on these two issues decided to challenge Poles and the whole world. This challenge is so big, you can't win. I'm sure you'll lose in this case. Today's sitting is proof that you're losing. But completely unnecessary in your lost wars you are loading the whole of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u122	Thank you. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've heard a lot of arguments here, we've heard a lot about money. Mr. Marshal, speaking, said that KPO is already basically approved, that the Poles will get the money they are waiting for. I'm going to quote one of the politicians of the United Right, and I'm going to quote a quote from March 2022. We are talking about this President's bill:.Policy of concessions leads nowhere and outrageous. On the one hand, the total opposition in Poland, on the other hand the establishment in Brussels and Berlin. It is a mistake to agree to everything and to stand by the EU. And let's remember... Today I heard the Prime Minister say that the opposition does not want money for Poland, and the government does everything to make it happen. Well, I remind you that on May 26, 2022. Zbigniew Ziobro voted to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber. But I also remind you that the same Zbigniew Ziobro, like all of his Solidary Poland, last year voted against the Fund for Reconstruction, against. And the opposition pulled you by your ears again. Mr. Senator said about the money and the fact that this total opposition again doesn't agree to what the government is proposing. Senator Kwiatkowski answered your question. We voted in favour of the amendments of Senator Martynowski today, although we had the same amendments, almost identical, proposed by our Legislative Office. So please don't say, you guys are total. You guys are the totals, not us. This is the most expensive coalition in Poland's history. EUR 210 million for today's punishment for the fact that this chamber is still functioning. Let me repeat: EUR 210 million. This is almost PLN 1 billion or more at the current euro rate. Whether we get the money or not, it doesn't just depend on whether we correct and adopt the bill, but also depends on the implementation of the milestones that have already been mentioned today. The liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber is just one of those stones. Reform of the disciplinary system of judges remains and the return to judgment of repressive judges, repressed inter alia. by your colleagues from a group called Kasta. The only scandalous group that was detected was a hater group at the Ministry of Justice. 24 people, the troll farm he commanded and whose work was coordinated by Łukasz Piebiak, Deputy Minister of Justice in your government. Three years of activity, destroying people... So? Are they being punished? Thanks to two people, members of this group... the judges of Cichock and Szmydt probably didn't allow their conscience to function that way and finally started talking. And they said things that make a hair crawl on its head. 24 lawyers close to a good change at the Ministry of Justice... This is your reform. And what is happening today is the result of this reform. Mr. Marshal said today that... justice needs reform, and I agree. I've been doing a lawyer's job for 27 years, and I know the justice system needs a deep reform. But not like this. In 2020 a Polish citizen waited 7 months for a ruling at first instance "Almost twice as long as 2015'. In 2015, a citizen waited on average 4.2 months to settle the case in the court of first instance and the courts had more than half a million cases to deal with in 2020. This situation has gotten worse. You can say whatever you want... the black sheep are everywhere. The example Mr. Marshal gave is, of course, reprehensible. But you don't shoot at a fly with an atomic bomb. Such people should be accounted for in the way that they should be accounted for in the future. Today, the Minister said, criticizing our amendments regarding our 7-year internship, that these are outstanding lawyers with a certain amount of experience. Yeah, with the right stuff... There are 11 prosecutors in the Disciplinary Chamber, 3 former legal counsels, 1 former voivode and 2 former judges of the appeal court, but those who were previously on a delegation in the Ministry of Justice. And this is the prosecutor who interrogated a woman during childbirth. And this is the former President of the Court of Appeal whose name falls in the context of a hater affair. Yeah, they're like that. This power has made those who are of such character so corrupt that they are not suitable for the profession of a judge. Remember, in order to be a judge, one must meet the basic condition: one must be impeccable in character. These people don't have an impeccable character. Let us remind you that Judge Igor Tuley is no longer in office for 560 days. Why? Because he dared order the D.A.'s office to investigate the vote in the Column Hall. Same judge. Tuley's been conducting a two-year trial of the accused for the commission of the assassination of businessman Piotr Głowali. After two years, the trial had to start over. Champagne corks were fired in cells. Minimum functioning in the European Community to restore the minimum level of legality in Poland It's this bill, it's this bill that the Senate has revised, although it doesn't solve this conflict for the rule of law. Because the rule of law is not a dream. The rule of law is not an invention of the opposition. The rule of law is not a mirage, not an illusion, not an illusion. This is a fundamental condition for democracy, a fundamental condition for the functioning of every country that wants to be called a democratic state of law. The rule of law is a guarantee for the citizen, but the rule of law is also a safe state in the international community. A law-abiding state is a law that is safe for a citizen who, in conflict, is always in a worse position in colliding with the state and its institutions, because there are no tools, no means of coercion such as the authorities have. So what protects the citizen: Sebastian from seicinto, who was supposed to have bad luck with the government column; a simple man who has a high-ranking neighbor with whom he is in conflict; a single mother, a victim of violence; a worker in a factory? Only the rule of law. The rule of law is a country in which the rules of law are respected. Maybe it's funny to some of you. Maybe it's a joke, a smile, but the rule of law is one where the law is above power, not power above the law. State in which the law is a guideline the action of the authorities. This is the fundamental value of the European Union enshrined in the Treaty, which is a condition for the protection of fundamental rights and for the protection of democracy. Because all communities, those in the country and international, are based on respect for the principles, respect for the rules that we have all agreed upon. And the rule of law must be protected by independent courts and independent judges. The Senate did a giant job in a few days. The Minister remembers perfectly when the Presidential Law was filed in the Seym at the beginning of February. She was being held by the Sejm. She was held hostage because there was a conflict with Mr Zbigniew Ziobra and his party, and the Senate did this work for citizens and for the rule of law within a few days. What happens when there's no rule of law? What happens when one person, one party takes over tribunals, courts, prosecutors? I know what's going on, and you can all see what's going on out there in the east. It's happening. That's why I have a dream that I'll live in a law-abiding country again. I have a dream... [[Timer signal]] ...that you'll all see it too, even though you're all smiling ironically today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u124	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u125	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Senate! Very symbolically I received the appearance of a sash in yellow and red in this room. These are the colors of Warsaw's capital city, the city whose president says it is good to think that the European Commission will set additional conditions. At a time when there is a debate on the funds due to us from the CPO, the President of the Polish capital says that it is good to think that the European Commission will, however, set additional conditions to keep this money. Today, these yellow and red colors appeared in this room because similar voices often appear in this room. Some senators think this government's gonna have a leg. Some senators are glad that, however, Poland will not be able to strengthen, it will not be able to build strategic, permanent alliances. Some senators believe that Poland is an undemocratic country in which everything that could be corrupted has been corrupted. And in this Chamber there is still a series entitled: undermining the legitimacy of the existence and actions of constitutional bodies and other state institutions and bodies. For example, recently, when the Senate debated whether to deprive Marshal Tomasz Grodzki of his immunity, the basic argument of the people who defended this immunity to remain with the Marshal was that the prosecution was politicized and belonged to Minister Ziobra. 'Cause if it wasn't, the senators would mostly agree that immunity would be lifted, but they were afraid that since this prosecution had been voted out by Ziobra's attorney's office, the marshal couldn't feel safe. And today, during this debate, I was very concerned that we did not specifically refer to this presentation of the President, but there were also bitter voices from the opposition regarding the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal does not really exist, that it is some prosthesis, a bang that it is a political tribunal and other such terms. In addition, unflattering opinions against the KRS, i.e. undermining the validity of this body. All in order to confirm that we are confident that someone in Europe will see some more irregularities in what is happening in our country. And here is the information from a few dozen minutes ago, about which you spoke Marshal Marek Pęk, that we have the first green light, that perhaps tomorrow it will be tightened somehow. I have the impression that this part of the High Senate, which is opposed to judicial reform in Poland, came to the presidential presentation forced by the public opinion, which for a long time does not understand why the opposition in Poland is looking for its lawyers in the majority of the managing authorities, I hope that temporarily The European Union. Why is it a transmission belt to convey often blown information, scary information that is supposed to discourage the structures of the European Union to Poland. We have still been very vulnerable to the European structures, even though we did not agree to the relocation of young, healthy representatives of the Arab world who called themselves refugees. Then we had the courage to say no. In Poland, we will not allow what the European Union and European countries did not have to wait long. And they saw that we were right. Well, as the old proverb says, you want to make an enemy? Then help him or let him know you were right. Cases related to the reform of our judiciary and the undermining of the concept that the current government and this one from the previous term of office meant to create the foundations of this reform... It started in 2015. We have to remember that. It started in June with this law, and then there was the election of judges to the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's how it happened. We also fell to the European Union because, contrary to the voices of our national opposition, we did not want to open the border with Belarus to the wave of refugees. You recall how every decision we made, including the one connected with the construction of the wall, was contested. But again, it turns out we're right. And we've made enemies again. Later it turned out that we were the ones who were right about Poland's attitude as one of the leading animators and ambassadors of the free, belonging to the European structures of Ukraine. We're the ones who'll step on it. We will step out through our representatives, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President Andrzej Duda, so that Europe can finally start thinking about its interests. Probably made some enemies because of that, too. The opposition would like us to make enemies in our society as well. But this is difficult because society is increasingly finding out who really cares about its interests and to minimize the effects of the global crisis. And who really also cares about the interests of our guests from Ukraine, whose more than 3 million fled to Poland before the war. We didn't do and we don't do refugee camps. We welcome the Ukrainians into our homes. And that's what we've made enemies of ourselves. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] But really. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki often repeats this. The most important thing is the interest of Poland and Poles. And I hope that, although from this House, I am convinced that you will lead to this. This bill... [[Timer signal]] ...prepared by your president will come out strongly changed, but it will function after the Sejm looks at this solution again. And the way you have to have a straight back and a strong back... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] ...not necessarily exposed to patting, he teaches us every day when he is pursuing Polish interests, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u126	Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! In fact, most things have already been said here, so it's just gonna be such loose impressions, pictures from the exhibition, so let's call them. Today's committee meeting, or actually 2 joint committees, including the Legislative Committee, which I belong to... I would recommend that the judges, all the judges, and the Supreme Court judges, in particular, be heard. These are the adjectives they are called by the senators of this part of the room: contaminated, infected, illegal. Add to this the existing terms in the public opinion: neo-KRS, judges of doubles, etc. It is not appropriate that the members of one authority, in this case it is the legislative authority, so they refer to the members of another authority. It's just a shame. Picture two. The bill itself... I would like to thank the President for bringing this project forward and for the fact that despite some divergent opinions about the substance We're not hiding it. This law has been passed. You should've made a compromise, but luckily that compromise came out. Fortunately, mostly for Poles, because we passed this law about it at the end of the speech. In view of the expectations of the European Union. Question: What can the opposition do in this case? Depends. He can let her go unchanged, possibly with legislative changes, which the Minister is calling for and we are in favour of. Because, of course, there are minor errors in the text and they need to be addressed. Well, he can veto it in its entirety, that's to say she's unnecessary, and he can ask for rejection. But it would just be a political mistake, and the opposition won't do it. And he can finally make amends. Except it's not that kind of correction. Because these amendments that have been tabled, not only are they embodying the text of this law itself, they will not yet be applicable in life. If this law were to pass in the proposed version including the amendments of the Senate majority, it would simply not be applicable. I initially wondered where these amendments came from, but a lot of things would explain to me after what I saw today at the committee meeting. Expertise prepared by I don't want to confuse the name of a team of advisors on constitutionality control at the Senate Marshal with everything. Well, since the expert who offered her, who introduced her, says that the president's prerogative is that the president has to do something. It's like, you know, it's like... it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you Like his National Radio Council... No, God, KRS! So when the National Judicial Council presents him with a set of people, the president has to appoint them. Well, I don't know where that came from. Where's that... I think the president has that right, but he doesn't have to call them all, parts, etc. The president is free to decide here. And if you go further with the thoughts of senate experts, then... Next to it is paragraph 16: the prerogative of the President is to award awards and decorations. But does the president have to give all the awards and decorations that the applicants will propose to him? This is how we can come to be absurd. I'll just remind you as a curiosity. Because it may have escaped the same team of advisers for constitutional control at the Senate Marshal in November 2020 to state And in the newspaper discussions, this was attributed to the entire Senate. That judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is of the nature of a non-existent judgment. It was a well-known ruling on the issue of the condition, I'd call it abortion. So the question is, is our team at the Constitutional Court? He's the last-word band, isn't he? Is our team, who is acting on behalf of the Senate and presenting us with these expertises which, as it were, the applicants of these amendments are referring to the Court? Is that our system of power in Poland? Let's just leave it at that. We won't bother the band any more, the amendments are more important. Most of the amendments are legislative amendments, but the 3 I asked about here earlier is not even scandalous, but they call for vengeance to heaven. The first one is the proposed article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1: On the date of entry into force of this Act, judgments given in the Disciplinary Board shall be declared invalid and without legal effect. The Senate proposes that a legislative act, i.e. general and abstract, abolish specific judgments in a given case In this case, the judges are concerned. In order to abolish judicial decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting to tremble at what's going to happen when you come to power. That's gonna be a shortcut... The piss are gonna be angels, and people are gonna miss the piss. I'm already abstracting economic issues. Three, four laws and it's over. Why the courts at all, it can be arranged by law. That's what you want, that's what you're proposing here. These are your amendments. You were warned about this. This was done at the committee meeting today. Next line. On the date of entry into force of this Act, the service relationship of the person appointed to the post of Supreme Court Judge ruling in the Disciplinary Board shall be deemed to have been dissolved... What's the rule of the judge's indiscretion? This is one of the fundamental issues that determines the independence of the judge so that he doesn't have to be afraid of anything so that there's no pressure on him. Of course, independence is an internal issue. But you can try to influence this independence. And you want a simple text to get the judges who might be free to go. And how can we be sure that such a text will not appear at any other institution: are you gentlemen or ladies unspeakable? You're not here, you're no longer judges. Is that what this is about? Is that really what this is about? That's what a three-part division of power looks like? That's what three divisions of power look like, isn't it? Well, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the most interesting... Third case, another flower in this meadow, third. There has been a term for an institution without the quality of the court. It may be necessary for legal purposes to do so, maybe it has appeared in the justifications of certain judgments, e.g. The Constitutional Tribunal. Well, we're not the Constitutional Tribunal, we don't have the right to decide that. That's not what they pay us for. Not for trying to set up judges. It's very good that you've made these amendments, you've exposed yourselves. We'll see how you rule when you come to power. Perhaps someday you will rule. I wish you all that. What laws will you then do across certain matters? I sympathize with the Polish people. About the European Union I won't be able to tell you again, Mrs. Marshal, time is passing. All I'm gonna say is, friends get to know each other in poverty. A fence on the border with Belarus. Poor? Poor. We have friends, so they refunded us this fence, which defends not only Poland, but the whole European Union. The issue of refugees from Ukraine. Friends have allowed us the money we deserve to spend on refugees anyway. And the extra money? Zero. [[Timer signal]] Let's see what happens now. Let us hope that our friends will do well and KPO will be approved, that is, our own money, borrowed by us too we will be able to start spending. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u128	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm listening to this discussion. I also attended a meeting of the Legislative Commission, which was held today from 10 a.m. for almost 4 hours, if I remember correctly, almost until 2 p.m. On the margins of this discussion, of this dispute, of legal arguments, of opinions, of opposing sentences, there is a question that could be paraphrased: pecunia olet or non ollet, money smells or ugly armpits, as the Latin sentiment says, or does not smell ugly. It depends, because on the one hand we hear from prominent representatives of the management of the governing camp, that politics is not going for money, but on the other hand we have such praxis with companies, nepotism, guys. Actually, it's not a day goes by that we don't get any interesting information about it. There is also the question that, if that is the case in such declarations and in such principles, as is the case with sovereignty. The argument that is being used, at least was used, was a matter of sovereignty, subjectivity, dignity, non-interference of the Brussels Courts in the internal legal order in Poland, activities outside the Treaty. These are pronunciations from different statements. At today's committee meeting, Minister Kalet said with a clear text: That's what I heard. That there was a compromise. Compromise, which I understand was supposed to run these EU funds. Minister Małgorzata Paprocka admitted that this bill meant clarifying a bill that could raise doubts, disputes, ambiguities. That's how I understood the Minister's statement. So it's not like it's been said for a few years that this system is great reformed, that these procedures are correct, because there were some doubts, since the President came out with such an initiative. Moreover, the President was the author of previous laws on justice. I would like to draw attention to the sovereignty element, because I am really sensitive about it. I believe that it is impossible to create a situation of such extreme relativism. On the one hand, for internal use, we have just such a shaming that we will not give up the button, will not interfere with us Brussels, will not enter into any non-traditional activities, and on the other hand, when it turns out that, however, the money that was counted for will not be, this is a compromise, there is talk of clarification of the law, there is talk of such situations. And I think I'm going to say something that might appall the High House. Mr. Minister and Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro was 200%. right, stating that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, accepting the principle of money for the rule of law at the European Council in July 2020, made a mistake. From the point of view of what the government camp was preaching, it was a mistake. He should not agree to this, because it was explained in such a way that it is not about the rule of law in terms of the shape of judicial reform, but it is really about some corruption practices that are supposed to be in Hungary. There they were. some problems with how EU funds are spent. Yeah, that kind of story. Moreover, the Prime Minister assured that this was absolutely unrelated because the reform of the justice system is outside the Treaties. Moreover, the Prime Minister, in accord with Ms Ursuli von der Leyen's suggestion, even on behalf of the Polish Government, made a request to the European Court to examine whether there was a conflict between the principle of money for the rule of law and the treaties on the basis of which Poland is a member of the European Union on the basis of which Poland accepted commitments. Well, as we know, the tribunal has ruled that there is no collision here. It is a rhetoric for internal use, such a rhetoric of dignity. At a time when it turns out that the European Union is consistent in its actions, the position is modified. But here, in this House, there have already been speeches on whether it is fulfilling these expectations of the European Union or not. I do not want to develop this thread in my speech at the moment, because I assume that each of your senators will stick to his sentence. But what I think is important is that... Well, it's clear that such a policy is to soften the departure from this principle of protection of sovereignty at all costs and from what has been said so far, and that makes you try to do something like this so that you can put it in such a way that nothing really happened that the wolf is full and the sheep is whole. Is it or isn't it? I won't answer that question. In the coming days we will probably all learn how this will continue to develop. However, I would like to point out that, after all, Prime Minister Morawiecki has agreed to two other very important elements that contradict the Law and Justice programme and what is officially proclaimed, namely that we are in favour of a Europe of sovereign homelands, a Europe of subjective countries, etc. After all, he agreed to the KPO mechanism itself, which actually... This was, it seems, at the European Council meeting in December 2020. In fact, it's called. the Hamilton effect, as this means the possibility for the European Union as a whole of a common debt which Member States have to pay jointly and severally and the possibility for the European Union to levy taxes. Well, isn't that a step towards federalization? That's the argument I'm using. High Izbo, so we are now, in these days, witnessing such a drag of rope, such a flipping of a hot potato. It is said that we do not give up sovereignty at all. And in the statement of one of the representatives of the governing camp, there is such a thread that the Union is expanding its treaty powers, using it to carry out its policy. Well, that's how I'm gonna answer it. The fact that this is happening... Maybe that's what's happening. There are even facts that can confirm this, but in order to resist it, you have to have a smart policy, make alliances within the Union with those who are able to lobby for their interests. We must do what other Member States of the European Union do, with the same traineeship in the European Union as Poland. I'm not talking about the so-called countries. the old Union, France, Benelux countries, etc., etc. I am talking about countries that joined the European Union 18 years ago. Let's answer that question. Let's take the seven years. [[Timer signal]] How many people in the European Commission have reached important positions? How many people from Poland? What kind of personal assets... I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. What personal assets in European structures does Poland have in order to effectively, like other countries, to influence and act wisely within the European Union and to be able to move in all this? And not on the one hand waving a saber, and when someone speaks up and says "hola," "hola," "hola," "whoa," "whoa," then roll up the tail and say we're still sovereign." Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Well, I have to clap...]] Yes. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: It was fun.]] [[Cell phone signal]] [[Voice from the room: Even happier.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: Even happier. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion, which has so many threads and mostly... [[Mr. Senator, the microphone's a little higher...]] ...and mostly they're kind of out-of-law, except... Unless, as a law, we understand only the magic word "laws." And that's what Marshal Marek Pęk was talking about, that there's politics, politics and politics again. I will argue a little with Senator Jan Maria Jackowski about this agreement of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the mechanism of conditionality. Yes, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has agreed to the mechanism of the rule of law. I do not know whether Senator Jan Maria Jackowski knows this, but the European Union has not launched this procedure against Poland. She was only launched against Hungary. The fact that we today do not have these funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, that is, total lawlessness by the European Union or, otherwise, the European Commission. If the European Commission does not want to pay us, it should launch a conditional mechanism approved by all the leaders of the European Union at the 2020 summit, as Senator Jan Maria Jackowski rightly said. This mechanism has a certain procedure, a long one. Only, so to speak, after this procedure has been completed can any country block funds. To date, the European Commission has not found any basis for launching a mechanism that is compatible with the Treaties, to which all the countries of the European Union have agreed. And the fact that we do not have the means that we deserve today is total lawlessness from the European Commission. There is no paragraph, there is no document on the basis of which the European Commission can block these measures from us. And the European Commission, with no legal basis The only legal basis is the conditionality mechanism that has not been launched against the Republic of Poland. Well, he does all kinds of fiddles, with his left hand behind his right ear through his leg... Well, we're gonna keep looking at this National Reconstruction Plan, we're gonna consult, we're gonna check the commas... And even if we approve this National Reconstruction Plan, it'll still be milestones and we'll be wondering... Even if we approve this National Reconstruction Plan, that doesn't mean we're gonna pay you back. Well, the media just reported today, like an hour ago, that the National Reconstruction Plan was approved. But after all, President Trzaskowski announced a few days ago: hola, hola, even if you are approved by the National Plan for Reconstruction, it is not yet known whether Poland will pay the funds, because approval and payment are two different types of activities. All of this is completely unlawful in the European Commission's proceedings. And in a situation in which, through all possible cases, the Senators of the Civic Coalition are changing the word rule of law in this Chamber, it would be worthwhile to be able to decipher a little bit. that's the word rule of law. That's one thing. And then there's the second line. This law is a certain answer to a completely different issue, namely the judgment of the TSUE, which actually passed. Well, there were various judgments in the judicial field. It wasn't one sentence, it was a few of those sentences. Some were favorable for Poland, others were unfavorable for Poland. We generally disagree with the essence of this judgment, which questioned the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber, but while respecting the judgments of the TSUE, we wondered how to implement this judgment into the Polish legal system. And among others. This law, at the initiative of the President, is an attempt to execute a sentence on which, to be honest, the Polish government has great doubts. Similar solutions in the area of judiciary exist and have not been questioned in other countries. But even if we had accepted such an assumption, Ladies and gentlemen, that Poland did not execute its judgment, because we have so far failed to execute this judgment on the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber... Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is a summary that the European Commission publishes and which tells us how many judgments of the TSEU have not been executed by individual States, various judgments concerning different cases. The Germans have failed to execute many sentences, France has failed to execute many sentences... I don't have it on me, and I don't want to say what numbers... Some countries have failed to execute two or three sentences, other four sentences. But no country other than Poland is blocked by funds from KPO, because one, the other or the third judgment of the TSUE has not yet been executed. [[It's not about quantity, it's about quality.]] Senator, I didn't interrupt anyone, so don't interrupt me either. This must be arranged in this maglu of various matters, in this confusion that has arisen in this discussion. Some Senators of the Civic Platform, including in the media area, say: rule of law, democracy, freedom. As I listened to your speech by Marshal Stanecka-Morawska... [[Voice from the Moravian-Stanecka hall.]] Sorry, Stanecka-Morawska... [[Voice from the Moravian-Stanecka hall.]] Moravian-Stanecka, I'm sorry... Mrs. Marshal, if it were so bad in Poland, you wouldn't be Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I thought there was almost some sort of chasm here... After all, there were free and democratic elections and the opposition to these elections to the Senate won. Are you questioning me as to what I'm gonna say, my parking tickets? If it were so bad, the European Union would not transfer this money to Poland, it would launch a conditionality mechanism, Senator Pociej would not be a senator, but maybe he would be in prison if there was a dictatorship here in Poland... [[You've gotten really excited.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] However... [[And I'll do the talking.]] You're welcome, Mr. Senator. However, there is freedom, there is democracy, the opposition has won the Senate elections, you have your marshal and you have your vice marshals. Period. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, but we do not question, we do not say that there is no democracy in Poland, there is no freedom, and some raise this issue, question it. We believe that there is freedom in Poland, there is democracy, there is compliance with the law. On some issues with the European Union, we are different, but we are trying to reach our positions because that is the policy. Like... I no longer remember which of your senators said in this Chamber: one must also be able to get along in the European Union. And now here's the thing I'm gonna talk about at the end, 'cause I've only got 40 seconds left. I'm addressing your marshal. Your marshal said that yes, here the penalties of 900 million zlotys, 210 million euros, we have to pay. These are the penalties charged. Will we have to pay them? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] I'll say it like that. I preferred Poland to pay the absurd penalty and not to liquidate the Power Plant of the Tours, so that the senator would have electricity in Opole. And I'd rather pay the penalty today even this 1 billion PLN... [[Timer signal]] ...for the Disciplinary Chamber, because I know we're okay. 250 billion in VAT mafia saved for Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They went to the state budget and were paid to Polish children in the 500+ program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u132	Mr. Senator, thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza. [[We're gonna run out of those in our next term of office...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm asking you to calm down...]] Mr. Senator, as the senator interferes with the debate of the other senators, that's fine, then you don't pay attention. It's just that there are discussions when the senator goes to the speaker, I allow, if you don't mind. So that sometimes you hit your own chest. Thank you very much. Please, Senator... [[In the discussion...]] Mr. Senator, please turn off... [[...that you haven't responded to.]] Mr. Senator, please calm down. There you go, Mr. Senator. It's time to start over.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u133	Well, maybe that's still the heat, because here the heating issue was triggered by your senator. Today was a council of government representatives for Poles, advice, what to do: collect chrust, yes, collect chrust in the woods. Authentically, that's what Deputy Minister PiS advised. You got 50 billion zlotys from the sale of CO2 allowances. Where's the money? How many of these 55 billion have been invested in the modernisation of the network, in the development of renewable energy sources, in the modernisation of investments in Polish energy? Where's the money? Because this is the money you took to the budget. And the electricity's getting more expensive. High Izbo! Minister! You don't have a minister from the president's office? It's a shame, because I just read that the Minister was finishing the same law department at the University of Warsaw in the same year as I was in the year 2007. We studied together. I'll remind you one more time. From this textbook by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, European law. This is a beautiful work, very valuable then and now, used by students, perfectly presenting the hierarchy of standards in European law, the superiority of treaties, directives, regulations, decisions on national law. The Prime Minister in this textbook raised the very important issue of preliminary questions. It is very clear in this manual that if, in a single case, the standard of national law conflicts with the standard of Community law, the competent national court may, as part of the audit presented, conclude that national law cannot be applied. According to Matthew Morawiecki's textbook. And I will refer to Spain at such a point in this discussion, because there was also an example of Spain. They're not true. I understand that it's post-political time and you operate half-truths, untruths, manipulates things. In Spain, in order to elect a Spanish judicial council, Parliament takes a decision of 2/3 of the votes. This requires a very broad compromise, a full compromise between different parties. There is no choice by a simple majority, by a ruthless majority. Candidates are reported in Spain not politicians, but trade unions of judges. And in Poland since 2016, you have introduced a triple political filter in the case of KRS. The first is that the candidates are submitted by politicians, clubs, parliamentary circles, this second filter is a parliamentary committee of justice, politicians are consulted, and the third one is chosen by politicians. In order to discuss relations with the European Commission, with the Court of Justice of the European Union in recent years, I would like to remind you that this has not occurred in today's discussion in how absurd reality We're moving. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, in the District Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw since December, proceedings have been pending concerning the excess of powers by the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's what happens at Mr. Ziobra's office. The question can be asked at what stage This is a procedure. I don't know, maybe D.D.A. Ziobro's gonna want to direct the motion... to ask, excuse me, for a European order to apprehend the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It's gonna be very spectacular. Let's not kid ourselves. What is the whole reform, the deformity that you have been introducing for several years? She doesn't correct anything, doesn't eliminate the problems of the justice system that have existed for many years, existed and are now being intensified. This reform comes down to one thing: to politicize, to have political control, so that, as you already have 100% control over the prosecution, you have the same control over the courts. Every, even the slightest politicisation and even the slightest contamination of this political element of justice is a denial of what the justice system is called to, that is, to serve its citizens. Justice is for Poles, not politicians. The result of what you've been doing over the past few years is tremendous chaos. This is, like, the seventh or eighth novel about the Supreme Court. All this leads to a deepening of the chronicity, to a longer duration, to an extension of proceedings, to a longer duration. There were cases that were dealt with by the courts a few years ago in months, and now people are waiting to solve their problem for years. They are even, especially in big cities, in Warsaw in district courts, the first dates after a year, after 2 years after filing a lawsuit. Well, these are unimaginable things. The term "free courts" has gained a very concrete meaning, and in recent years these courts have indeed been slow, sleazy and long-lasting. And that's a very big problem. On the one hand, it is long, long-term, on the other hand expensive, because many fees for cases have increased. For example, when it comes to the actions of a politicized prosecutor and how it is, like the prosecution of 100% I will say yes to the politician, the head of the party, the Member, the Minister, the politician, the prosecutor general. Things, these political issues, are twofold. If a politician, party president, Member, Minister and Attorney General in one person finds a political opponent or gets such a political opponent or an appointment from another President, then in such cases there will be inventing crimes, sewing cases, and, on the other hand, as the political opponent is a victim, then the political prosecutor will not deal with such a matter. Here's an example. You know the Pegasus case very well. I was illegally attacked for six months by this tool to combat terrorism. The data was stolen from my phone, they were faked, and I was attacked in an election campaign with fakes. The D.A.'s office kindly opened an investigation after three months. But there's nothing going on in him. And it's been eight months. I'm the victim in this case. And let me remind you that the D.A.'s office on a case like this, as well as on other cases, has an Art. 10 c.p.k., i.e. the legal obligation to prosecute crimes. And now the question is, why isn't the D.A.'s office prosecuting crime or more likely those crimes because it was a whole series of crimes? Because he's making political arrangements, because he's political. And what you did with the D.A.'s office... Unfortunately, that's what you want to do with the courts. It's supposed to be a lockdown, a close-down. And this is very sad, especially since you very often rely on the values of the 'Solidarity', and I will remind you that there were many demands in the 1981 Declaration of Justice for the functioning of the justice system, which said that the Presidents of the courts should be independent of the executive authority, that these paths should be cut between the PZPR Provincial Committees and the Presidents of the courts, and when you look at the 1981 Declaration, there will be a few points. And there was also mentioned the idea of the judicial self-government, which has been overturned by you in recent years. This is a paradox, a historical paradox. Although I think some people might like it... If you look for an example, then in the case of the new head of the political office of Prime Minister Sasin you might feel like in the good old days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Frost has set the bar high on what democracy is all about, saying that democracy is when Senator Pociej is not in prison. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There was a joke in the Polish People's Republic. The lawyer comes home scattered, happy, and defends the dissident, defends the opponent, and the wife looks at him and asks: acquitted? And the lawyer said no, but they didn't convict me! So thank you so much for setting the direction in which we're going. Your marshal, in turn, asked who was defending Sebastian from Seicinto. So he defends him in Krakow, the patron of Pociej, who is taking advantage of this, first of all, that the Disciplinary Chamber has not yet taken up with him, and secondly that Minister Ziobro has not yet dissolved our local government. But it's... Here again we are going in the right direction. I also enjoyed Senator Elephant's speech. I really agree with the senator in some way. But since Mr. Senator says "we," the government, we didn't put the Ukrainians in any camps, but we, the government, took them to the apartments, so I would like the senator to tell us right away who from the government took these Ukrainians into the apartment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ♪ 'Cause in my opinion ♪ it's just Poles took them to the apartments, not the government. And yet, I would like to highlight the exceptional courage for which I have always valued Senator Elephant because he said the following sentence... I knew you were brave, but I didn't know you were that brave. Well, some senators are happy that this government should have a leg. Well, so hit the Senators from Solidarna Poland... It's strong, it's strong. This is strong, because when we take into account the history of what Minister Ziobro is trying to do with Prime Minister Morawiecki, and in general how this whole national reconstruction plan is still bugging through these push-ups... So that was very brave. I also have to agree partially with Senator Czerwinski... [[No, it can't be.]] ...but I will question the last words the senator has said about his friends, that he meets his friends in poverty. Well, you've done quite a lot to make it true that we have friendly relations after six years of government, with our neighbours, with the Baltic. Mr. Senator did some things himself. I remember those words. I don't want it to be good with the Germans or the Ukrainians... I think the senator's inquisitiveness is that... well, even with Switzerland, we could have a fight. Now, seriously. Congratulations on the acceptance of the KPO, such information appeared today. Only that it is always in such situations that there is good news and bad news. The good news is that KPO has gone through and will be, while the bad news is that the Commission on its pages has determined exactly what needs to be done in order to... and all of our discussion today, where you say that you have done something in this direction... Unfortunately, that's not true, because out of these four conditions... Well, theoretically, this one may be fulfilled, that is, it may be accepted. And I wish the President that what the President has put here is sufficient. And I advise you to accept our amendments, because it will be easier. But there are three conditions. The judges must not be held liable for the recognition of the decisions of the EUSF, for what they say you are saying here all the time that they are to be independent and independent. Neither for verifying whether the judicial composition of the court which gave the decision of the lower court was correct or incorrect. They must not be held accountable for this. Next: the rights of the parties are to be strengthened. There is no such thing, so the next point is not fulfilled. And one last thing. All the judges who... [[Timer signal]] ...the cases have been brought to an end, they must have the opportunity to... the point is that the independent court, chosen completely differently and created completely differently, could reconsider their case. [[Timer signal]] [[Is it in the bill or not?]] I'm afraid... well, it's so formulated that it may not be accepted. But if it is... [[There it is.]] ...it's thanks to our amendments that it will be reinforced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, please... [[I volunteered, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator in corrigendum mode? [[In correction mode, but also second appearance.]] Now would you like to, or... [[Mr. Senator, then...]] But if you've checked in before, the senator... Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'll try briefly, a little provocative. I'm not hiding that I have a serious problem with how I'm supposed to vote on the bill. In fact, I think I should vote against it because I don't believe in honest intentions... It is a set-up, it is a game to maintain power, not to introduce the rule of law in Poland. I will vote in favour of the amendments, because the amendments that are prepared are good enough and change so much, improve this law that it is worth voting for. However, the chances of voting them out in the Sejm, as we all know, are close to zero. Why? Because you don't have a pure intention, because you have completely different grounds for this bill. I asked the Minister what the President was doing when he took the legislative initiative. I do not believe that he was motivated by the desire to improve the rule of law. This is looking for compromise, but such a rotten compromise, also called a set-up, to reach for EU money. Let me repeat: the goal is above all to win the next election and maintain power. The rest doesn't really matter. Besides, this machine started a few days ago. The current authority hopes that the money from the European Union will improve the budget, and the printing houses printing these symbolic checks have already started, the politicians of Law and Justice have already started in Poland, there are rallies and meetings. And so on. The senator from Jelenia Góra came to Zielona Góra or around Zielona Góra, because the senators... [[No, it's not. I wasn't...]] Well, Mr. Frost... It's not frost. It's just... [[I know there's only one Senator from Jelenia Góra.]] Okay, good. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen...]] Then make it Legnica. Okay. Besides, I'll check your name and show you. Okay? Okay? [[Clearly from Legnica...]] All right. In any case, propaganda campaigns have started, politicians have gone into the field, they give out checks, they're trying to buy local government officials. I believe that... it has already been announced that even senators' terms of office will be extended to six years. 'Cause that's how it all has to be set up to... [[Mr. Senator...]] Okay, but I'm sorry, so far I'm talking, Mr. Frost, Mr. Senator Frost. Okay? Listen to me, and then you'll possibly be able to say your opinion ad vocem. So that I believe that these are apparent movements, subjugated, done only and only to reach for EU money, to introduce propaganda again, to distribute money as your own, because part of society believes that the money you give away is party money, government money. The government doesn't have its money, it doesn't have its money, it doesn't have its money. It's either money or Polish taxpayers, or EU money, or credit money. Because the level of government debt is so gigantic, it has increased so that the reference to the VAT gap and the huge money that was taken from the VAT mob... Please compare this to an increase in debt. Let me repeat: the goal is to keep power at all costs. So I don't believe in those intentions. I am also surprised by the statements of politicians that... one billion PLN was actually put on the line to prove to the European Union that you are right. 1 billion PLN for me as a former self-government officer is huge money which could be invested in new roads, in the construction of new factories, in the weaponization of the land, in the construction of new housing estates and apartments that the state promised. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that I will vote in favour of this law, hoping that at least part of these amendments, tabled and voted out in the Senate, will remain, although the hopes are small. Let me repeat: you are doing this not because you want to improve the rule of law in Poland, but only to maintain power at all costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Frost. Five minutes. [[There'll be a corrigendum.]] [[Oh! I just remembered. Senator locksmith.]] Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal, first in correction mode. Point one. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, I inform you that I have not been to Zielona Góra, and I am the only senator from Jelenia Góra. That's the first line. [[Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] The second point is: we do not plan to extend the senators' term. [[I've corrected...]] Then listen to what you said. Third... [[I said Senator, I'm sorry.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion club, please let the senator speak now. There you go.]] Thirdly, giving an example of the very sympathetic Senator Pociej smiling at me, I spoke in the context of your speech that if it were so bad with the Polish rule of law and if there were any dictatorship in Poland, there would be no opposition or opposition in prison, and the opposition today has the highest functions, including among others. The third person in the country is an opposition politician. And that's it for the corrigendum. With the second vote, such 3 issues would have to be raised. This is Senator Brejza talking about the D.A.'s office. I'm not a lawyer, I don't want to talk about it, but there are different models of the prosecution's operation in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you that we were only 6 years old... 6 years old, counting since 1990... I am no longer talking about what was in the Polish People's Republic, because it was a different reality, another system, etc. For only six years, the position of Attorney General was separated from the position of Minister of Justice. From 1990 to 2010 there were different... The SLD ruled, the AWS ruled, the PiS... I don't remember anymore, but anyone can see who's in charge. The position of the Attorney General has always been linked to the position of the Minister of Justice. So this is not some extraordinary thing that is being carried out in Poland today in the context of the function that the Minister of Justice performs. Mr. Marshal Borowski will probably remember how his party colleagues, Mr. Cimoszewicz and perhaps Mr. Jaskiernia, were also ministers of justice and prosecutors general. And somehow no one questioned it, and he didn't say it was some kind of an attempt on democracy, freedom and the rule of law. And Senator Kwiatkowski, who was a prominent person in Prime Minister Buzek's government... Well, for the entire AWS period, those were functions... I don't remember who it was at the time, but wasn't Senator Kwiatkowski the Minister of Justice and connected the function of Attorney General? But I might be wrong here. It was... [[It's hospitable.]] Even under the Platform's rule, because in 2007 and 2010 the Platform was ruled by... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know who did this job, Senator. Well, if I were to look at it like that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I think somebody's gonna be able to check it out, and they're gonna know. So let's not make this a fetish. There are all kinds of models. It's a little different in Germany. It's different in the United States. There is greater independence from politicians. It's completely different in Italy. I don't want to lecture anybody here, but you can check out the models. This combination of the function of attorney general with the function of minister of justice is not something unprecedented in the world nor is it something unprecedented in history. If you count only governments in Poland since 1990, for most of this time, under different governments, it was rather such a combination. In the context of this, do the courts act smoothly or inefficiently? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, we're not happy about that. One of the senators said it here. That procedures are long. We'd like it to be faster. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're thinking about the reform of the judiciary... Whether it's a mistake or not it's a mistake, it can be judged. We started this reform from the top, from the KRS, from the Supreme Court, from the Constitutional Court. And how quickly cases are settled by the courts... [[Voice from the room: Depends on the bottom.]] ...depends on the bottoms. It depends on the district courts, district courts or possibly appeals. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And since we think that's what I'm going to say, they're starting to reform from the top. Well, unfortunately, that's the hierarchy. We've got some ideas on how to reform... Besides, the Minister of Justice introduced... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to reform regional, district and appeal courts. [[Voice from the hall: But underground, too?]] Please? [[Voice from the hall: But underground, too?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, Senator, I never bothered you, so please... Every time you speak, it's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please.]] So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this reform of regional, district and appeal courts, regardless of who governs, is ahead of us because we are all aware... [[Timer signal]] We have only changed one issue in these courts, namely after the famous case with Judge Milewski we have introduced a mechanism for drawing the judges. We know this, that's what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was talking about. We put in this mechanism, but I just... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please stop.]] Two more things. Just one last thing. This is for Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. The fact that you want to win the election I want to win the election, the platform wants to win the election, the PiS wants to win the election It's no secret, because the political party's goal is either to win elections or to maintain power. [[Voice from the room: But honest!]] Are you questioning the integrity of any choices? Then report it to the D.A.'s office. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr. Senator, it's been six minutes.]] Yeah, but I had a two-minute correction... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: You had a minute to correct. You're welcome, go ahead.]] And I just want to say one more thing to Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. These things that are being dealt out today, these funds, these checks that you say our colleagues are traveling around Poland with them, these are from the national budget. These are not European measures. Secondly, if you think that the European Commission... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down. Calm down, please.]] ...the European Union has planned an NPO for the whole European Union so that the PiS can win the election, so congratulations on your good humor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u140	You're welcome, Senator Kleina. Three minutes, Senator, just as you promised... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, the senators were absolutely competent and extraordinary about legal matters. I don't want to talk about it, because I don't feel like I'm the kind of specialist who speaks here before me. I wouldn't have spoken if some law and justice senators hadn't talked about the wonderful economic situation and the economic miracle he had prepared, prepared and introduced over the past few years, the PiS. And all the problems that Poland has today and what we all have are blames on Putin, war, pandemic, all the other things. [[Voice from the hall: And Tusk.]] Yeah. So I just want to be clear that we are here, in the Senate, paying attention very consistently and strongly to one issue. The issue of inflation. We've been paying attention not this year, not last year, just two years ago. We were talking about everything you're doing that's gonna lead to hyperinflation. Today we're witnessing it. Pushing the blame only on Putin and the war is simply a great manipulation and fraud, because even in neighbouring countries where inflation is We are talking about countries comparable to Poland. This inflation is much lower than ours. Today, just a moment ago, one of the senators was talking about giving away money in municipalities. Well, the cards show up, they say I'll give you $100,000, $1 million, $2 million, $5 million. It's all printed money, money without money. We've talked about this many times. And the bonds? And the permanent destruction of the economy for seven years? What did you do? What great projects have been carried out during these years of your governments? You can't see anything. You can't see the highways you've been building. You can't see the roads or the other things that you've done before. You're just doing PR, cheating people and destroying the economy. Indeed, we will have a lot of problems to get out of these things that are going to happen in the coming years. But we can handle it, we can handle it. And one last sentence... stop. That much? [[Voice from the room: No, say...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] So what I'm saying is, you've consistently destroyed the law. Every time we showed it, even in small cases, even on the occasion of the PIT Act. The PIT Act includes laws that concern a completely different matter. But it's a small thing. Do you remember the National Bank of Poland Act? What did you do in this bill? The work of prisoners. The Act speaks about the National Bank of Poland, and the records relate to the work of prisoners. Is that how you make the law? Is this a law-abiding state? Well, it's just not the right thing to do. Such cases, such examples, are very many. And the 1 billion zloty? You guys go through this so lightly, nobody even talks about it. PiS journalists don't see it at all. Up to PLN 1 billion of punishment is to be paid just for breaking the law. It doesn't touch anybody, nobody cares. Well, 1 billion is still a lot of money. I wish it was always a huge, large amount of money, but with this policy, it might turn out to be a worker's salary in a while. Well, that might be the policy. What about the Turs? It's led us to pay the penalty. We only paid her because no one can talk. A matter that should be dealt with at company and neighbouring commune level must be dealt with by prime ministers, ministers, government. And in the end, you have to pay the penalty plus much more benefits. This is the way to nowhere, this way you can't rule. Today we are trying to make little of this rule of law right. I hope this is the first step towards normality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u142	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Majer, Aleksander Szwed and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does the Minister still want to speak? I would just ask for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission's decision announced today is very good news for Poland. The adoption of this decision and the timing of its adoption are clearly linked to the law that the High House has decided today. I strongly believe that this law is in line with milestones. I would like to thank the marshals and all the senators from this point of view for the work they have done today, both during the committee meeting and during the plenary session. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for sticking with us until the end of this debate. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held after 15 minutes of adjournment. I'm ordering a recess until 8:50 p.m. There will be a vote after this break. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 35 to 20 minutes 52]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u145	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Act No 722 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. A large proportion of the amendments will be voted together, so that I ask you to pay attention to numbering. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1, 19 and 25 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, fifty-three for, 42 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Attention, amendments 2, 16 and 26 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, fifty-three for, 43 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Would Senator Pupa please see if he sent a signal? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] Attention, amendments 5, 7, 13 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Excuse me, I'm taking it back. There are amendments 6, 10 and 14, which must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote... Oh, no, they're just voting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 52 votes for, 41 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Who is against.]] Who's against who's holding back, yes. 97 senators voted, 53 votes against, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Attention, amendments 9 and 12 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 53 votes against, 39 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 53 votes for, 40 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 1 person from remote yet. Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 54 for, 41 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 18. Who's in favor of... We're gonna have to turn on the razor. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: Isn't the machine on?]] [[Voice from the room: Now.]] I repeat, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Attention, amendments 20, 23 and 24 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Attention, amendments 21, 22, 28 and 29 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, fifty-three votes for, 42 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 27. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 50 and the committee's report In print No 50 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to transfer the discussion to the cockroaches, and the marshal, please submit a report to the committee. We're turning on time, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Judicial Affairs and some other laws, namely print No 50. On 17 January 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to consider it at first reading. Commissions after considering at first reading the draft law presented by the applicants at joint meetings of 4 and 25 February 2020, 3 and 5 March 2020 and 7 February 2021. In this regard, following a public hearing on 5 March 2020 on this project, the Commission for Laws and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions prepared a report. The committees have amended the draft law and request the adoption of the draft law together with the amendments, the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly. This project was submitted by a group of senators. A long time ago, on 17 January 2020, it was sent to the Legislative Commission. At the outset of this proposal, I would like to thank the applicant's representative, Senator Bogdan Klich, very warmly for the enormous work you have done, and for the fact that we have worked together under the leadership of the senator at the time to solve this very difficult matter. The draft law and the amendments in some sense require further improvement during the second reading due to the passage of time and the change of legal status. At a time when a group of senators brought this project to the Marshal's staff and when we were debating and having a public hearing, there were not yet judgments of the TSUE and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which this legal situation explained to us more. We know one thing: in order to fully implement the judgments of the TSEU and the European Court of Human Rights, it is necessary to intervene by the legislator to amend the rules for the election of the members of the National Judicial Council, because the failure of the formation of the National Judicial Council is a fundamental problem of the Polish judiciary and a fundamental source of the allegations made by the European tribunals against the formations of judges after 2015. The aim of the Act is primarily to restore the constitutional principle of the selection of judges to the National Judicial Council by the judges themselves and to abolish the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. This law still provides for the abolition of the Disciplinary Chamber, but we have just passed a law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court and abolishing the Disciplinary Chamber. It also provides for the independence of disciplinary proceedings which may be brought against judges from the executive authority and for the introduction of a validation mechanism which cures the situation of judges appointed in such a way as to prevent the applicant from being incorrectly established by the National Judicial Board. And I don't have to say it again today. In the course of the debate on the previous law, this has been raised on several occasions. That since the end of 2015 the Polish judiciary has been constantly subject to change. Their authors claimed that these changes were dictated by the desire to eliminate the agreement among judges, the removal of judges of criminals, judges ruling during the period of martial law and the persecution of the opposition at that time. However, there is absolutely no study to confirm that such an arrangement existed among judges. As was stated during the debate on the previous law, the only agreement that existed was the agreement in the Ministry of Justice after 2015, which led to the hating, i.e. the so-called. Kast group. Organisational changes in justice over the years have violated the constitutional principles of appointing judges and their independence from political factors. Several judgments have been handed down in this regard. These were judgments of the European Court of Justice of the European Union. The first such judgment was dated 19 November 2019 when the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that Article. 47 Charters of Fundamental Rights and Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Council Directive of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation must be interpreted as preventing disputes concerning the application of Union law from falling within the exclusive competence of a body not constituting an independent and impartial court within the meaning of the first of those provisions. In the following months, further sentences were issued. Resolution of 23 January 2020 of the combined composition of the 3 chambers of the Supreme Court of the Civil Chamber, the Criminal Chamber, the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance The next judgment is the judgment of 2 March 2021 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which referred to the interpretation of the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 1 (2) of the Treaty on European Union and the appointing of judges. The next judgment in this regard was the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which carried out the judgment of 2 March of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In that judgment of 6 May 2021, it was decided that the National Judicial Council in its new composition did not give sufficient guarantees of independence from the legislative authorities and the executive authority in the procedure for appointing judges. Then there was a provision of 14 July 2021 in which the Court of Justice of the European Union referred to the Disciplinary Chamber. On 22 July 2021, the European Court of Human Rights delivered a judgment in Reczkowicz v Poland, in which it concluded that the National Council of the Court of Justice, following the changes made in 2017, did not provide sufficient guarantees of independence from the legislative and executive powers. On 21 September 2021, the Supreme Administrative Court once again ruled on this issue. 28 October 2021 The National Judicial Council has been deprived of membership of the European Judicial Council Network. The reasons for the decision indicate that the selection of judges of the members of the National Courts of Justice does not guarantee independence from the legislative and executive authority and such independence is a condition for membership of that organisation. The next judgment relating to this issue was the judgment of 8 November 2021 in the case of Dolińska-Ficek and Ozimek v Poland, issued by the European Court of Human Rights, in which the Court ruled that after the legislative amendments concerning the National Council of Courts made in 2017, the judicial authority in Poland was deprived of the possibility of a real impact on the functioning of the National Council of Courts, and the executive and legislative authority, which had a decisive influence, fully control the functioning of that body. 11 October 2021 The Supreme Administrative Court recognised 7 further appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Board concerning the submission of an application for appointment as a judge. A further judgment, judgment of the TSUE of 16 November 2021, in which an important problem concerning the independence of the court was also resolved. All those judgments I cited referred to more or less to the question of the independence of the KRS, which was challenged. I do not have to say that the proper cast of judges, by a properly chosen, constitutionally elected, National Judicial Council is a condition of sine qua non restoring the rule of law in Poland. It seems that after the resolution of the Disciplinar Chamber is passed, we will be on our way. We should keep moving. What are the main principles of this law? First of all, following the adoption of these amendments, the newly elected CRS will be able to appoint judges whose status will no longer raise any doubts in the light of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights. It is clear that the choice of judges to the judicial board should be made by the judicial community. This is a European standard. The proposed amendments are, above all, new regulations on how to fill the National Judicial Council. One of the arguments of the authors of the change in the KRS was that in other countries similar oranas are shaped in different ways and do not always sit in them or have in them a majority of the persons indicated by the judges. However, it is even more important that the Polish Constitution provides that the Sejm will appoint only 4 Members and that the Senate will appoint 2 Senators to the National Court Council and 15 members will be elected from among the judges. Although the Constitution does not specify how, this does not mean that it allows an increase in the number of members of the KRS elected by the Sejm from 4 to 19. It is therefore proposed that 15 judges, members of the National Courts of Justice, be elected by judges in general and secret elections. Each of the eligible persons will be able to take part in elections in the relevant electoral district assigned to a particular type of court. According to this proposal, the judges of the regional courts will elect 8 members, judges of the district courts 2 members, judges of the other types of courts, i.e. the Supreme Court, appeals courts, military courts, provincial administrative courts, and the Supreme Administrative Court 1 member each. The judges of the regional, district and appeal courts, as they belong to the height of the common courts, will be able to stand as candidates in 1 of the 3 selected districts. As a result, judges of the regional courts, as entitled to choose almost half of the judges of the KRS, will be able to choose not only judges ruling in the regional courts, but also a judge of the district court or appeal court; of course, the opposite may also happen. This meets the demand for the universality of these elections. Such a way of establishing a composition is a consequence of balancing 2 ideas: one saying that there should be judges in the National Council of Judicial Affairs who will represent the judicial community as best as possible, and the other emphasising that judges should be elected to the board, who will ensure with their knowledge and skills that the National Court Committee, as a kind of competition committee for newly appointed judges, will perform in a satisfactory manner the task of evaluating candidates for the profession of judge or judges who apply for promotion. In this second aspect, it is a guarantee that the candidates selected by the Council will be distinguished by the quality of independence. In order to minimise the disadvantages resulting from the radical change in the composition of the National Judicial Council, which should be characterised by continuity of thought and experience as a professional body, it was assumed that the members of the National Courts Board would be selected for individual terms of office. Notabene, the principle of a common term of office, created as a matter of reference to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, is not based either on the content of the article itself. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of the Constitution, or in other provisions of the Basic Law, which introduce the cadence of bodies or their members, and is contrary to the previous system tradition. In order to open elections within the limits permitted in the light of the Constitution, it is proposed to grant the possibility of submitting candidates for those 15 seats in the National Courts, not only to judges themselves, but also to citizens who have the right to vote in the elections to the Sejm, as long as they collect at least 2 000 signatures under a given candidacy. This number shall be equal to the number of signatures required to submit a candidate for senatorship in each of the 100 electoral districts. The project also proposes that the election of the members of the National Courts of Justice be made in electronic form. However, the first President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, who was entrusted with the election order, will decide on this. By the way, the 2019 elections to the body, which is the Scientific Excellence Council, which controls the broadcasting of degrees and titles in Poland, participated in 29 thousand voters, professionals and habilitation doctors, were 500 candidates and 141 seats, and there is also a more complex electoral system, which proved that such elections can be successfully conducted in such a way. A normative novelty envisaged in the project is the establishment of a Social Council which would be responsible for the opinion of candidates for judges before the National Court of Justice indicates one of them to the President of the Republic of Poland. Since the Social Council is not provided for in the Constitution as the competent authority for the seat of judges, its vote may at most be of a supporting nature. This National Judicial Council will ultimately weigh the arguments for specific candidates for judges, taking into account not only their knowledge and skills, but also the position of the social side. The election of judges by citizens of the Polish constitution does not foresee. The KRS will be able to consult the opinion of the Social Council on other issues, e.g. on the criteria for the mechanism for assessing candidates for judges. Another amendment proposed in the Act is the abolition of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. The circumstances of its appointment and its composition deprive this Chamber of its legal and social legitimacy. The examination of public affairs, mainly stating the validity of elections, would return to a ruling in these matters for many years in the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs. Extraordinary complaints will in turn be dealt with by the competent chambers. The next issue is disciplinary action against judges. Here I would like to say right away that we will be proposing amendments on this issue during the debate, because the question of disciplinary action has become one of the requirements, milestones, which are a condition for the European Commission to pay money from the Fund for Reconstruction. Reforming disciplinary proceedings is one of the necessary conditions. Therefore, taking into account the experience and case law of the TSUE from the previous period of 1.5 years, we will propose amendments to this issue. Next issue to be addressed It is very important to validate the vocations made with the incorrect seat of the National Judicial Council in such a way that, on the one hand, this status of judges is no longer challenged not only by European tribunals, but also by common courts in the countries of the European Union, which often have to judge judgments taking place in Poland, it is very important that these judgments for the good of our citizens are not questioned. On the other hand, in order to determine once and for all the validity of judgments which, in this period after the election of the National Judicial Council and the seat of judges, were issued, so that no one would ever question those judgments again. The judgments given by the courts in which the Supreme Court judge ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber was present, this law also considered void, but we introduced a specific amendment to the previous law that we had just passed. Therefore, this issue, which concerns the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, and which is included in the Senate project, because then there was not yet a separate project that would talk about the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, also during the debate, will have to be deleted from the bill during the second reading. In general, these are the most important issues. This legislative novelty, which I have already mentioned, is the establishment of a Social Council at the National Judicial Council, which will be consultative. And a novelty regarding the universality of elections will be the way of voting in individual courts, so that the election of judges to the National Council of Courts is direct in order that all courts of all levels are represented in the National Council of Courts, and at the same time that every judge who elects to the National Council of Courts is so aware that his vote is important and counts. This law, if passed by the Senate, by the Sejm, then again by the Senate, would enter into force 30 days after its announcement. As I have already announced, during the debate, we will propose amendments which are modernizing this law, align it with the legal status that we have after the judgments of the TSUE concerning Poland and the European Court of Human Rights concerning Poland, but also to the legal condition that was produced at that moment by adopting a law amending the Law on the Supreme Court which abolishes the Disciplinar Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-01-senat-43-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you. The machine crashed and I turned it on later, but your marshal perfectly fit in time. According to what we told you, at this point I am announcing a break until 8 June at 11 a.m. This will be the continuation of this meeting and the continuation of this item with all the procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much for your participation. We meet on June 8th at 11:00 p.m. [[Voice from the room: And when...]] I explain my doubts: when this item is completed, the next 40th meeting will begin, which will have its own separate programme. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 25]]
