ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the thirty-seventh session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka, Senator Alexander Sweed, Senator Richard Świlski and Senator Jerzy Wcisla to the sitting. Senator Ryszard Świlski will be the first to lead the list of speakers. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula The meetings will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, in a remote way. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings shall be governed remotely by Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the vote window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the Sejm at its forty-seventh meeting on 26 and 27 January 2022 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Road Transport, the Act on the Working Time of Drivers and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data, to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. The Sejm also adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuel Consumers in view of the situation on the gas market and to the Act on Passport Documents. In addition, at the same meeting, the Sejm rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, all the amendments of the Senate to the Budget Act for 2022, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act on the Amendment of the Law I would also like to inform you that at its forty-eightth meeting on 9 February 2022, the Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law on the amendment of the Education Law and some other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-fourth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would remind you that the draft laws to be discussed in items 7 and 8 of the agenda have been submitted by the Council of Ministers as urgent projects. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. I propose that points 3 to 5 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than those set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the Home Army and considering it as the first point; the second reading of the draft law amending the Law and consider it as point nine; second reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act and consider it as point 10; the second reading of the bill amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on compulsory insurance, the Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on judicial costs in civil matters and considering it as point 11. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see... [[Voice from the room: It's...]] Who? Senator Bogucki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a request to complete the agenda for information from the Marshal on Mr Marshal's international activity in the context of, for example, his last trip to the United States, the High Senate delegation. Perhaps information about this activity and its effects is presented to the High House at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, but I am not a member of it. Therefore, I think that the High House should take up a debate on such an important matter. Because I understand that Mr. Marshal in the context of the current international situation was looking for there. As well as this delegation was looking for Patterns for solving problems on the Polish border. Miami had similar problems. Although many years ago, few people remember about it, it was about Cuba and the United States, not about Russia, but Russia, of course, was also involved. Mr. Marshal, perhaps you're a marshal. What I don't believe is that he followed one of the Members who, at the time when I was a Member, went to Madeira, probably looking for traces of Marshal Piłsudski. I'll admit I envied... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will admit that I envied my fellow Member at that time, and as a Member, I also went to Madeira. Except I flew with my own wife and with my own money. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Marshal, since public funds are being used for this, I think that information on this matter from your marshal, from the High House and from the participants in such international initiatives would be advisable. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, thank you for your request. You seem to find a lot of information on the senate sites where this stay was described. Let me remind you that since World War II and earlier, since the renovation of the Senate in the Second Republic, our role has been to take care of Polonia. In the United States, the largest economic congress of the Polish world was held from the United States to Australia, Great Britain and other countries. By the way, none of the delegation members were even on the beach for a second. Also a lie, it's not true that the governor didn't accept us. ♪ For a simple reason ♪ We didn't ask for such a meeting at all, it wasn't in the plan. But I accept your request. There's a vote against it, and we have to call a vote. Neither the entire delegation nor I personally have anything to hide. I don't really understand what you were suggesting with that Madera because I couldn't keep up with your thoughts. But there's a formal conclusion in this case. We're holding a vote. Who is in favour of Senator Bogucki's request to supplement the program with information about the Marshal's foreign departure? I would just ask Senator Bogucki to consider that a large delegation made up of members of all clubs is going to Ukraine. It's an important trip, so I don't know if there's time for that request. If you don't, it'll go to the next meeting. Who is in favour of Senator Bogucki's request for information on senate trips? Who's in favour? Raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 37 votes 51 against and 6 senators abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The motion was not accepted. We have a question, a request to Senator Martynowski, as head of the club... Because there have been so many lies and misconceptions around this very useful trip, including stories about Dubai... When, in fact, if the trip takes place at all, it will be to Abu Dhabi, to the head of parliament and to the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates, as we want to diversify sources of fossil fuels, including gas and oil. But I'd be happy to meet with the club and with the members of the delegation we'll tell details of what was on the last trip to satisfy the curiosity of Senator Bogucki. If you'd like, I'd like to have a cup of coffee as well. Notabene, proposals to leave for members of the Law and Justice, without names, also in this matter fell. That's all there is to it. I'm saying... what? [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Ah, Senator Czerwinski. [[Voice from the room: We're done here, from this side...]] I'm sorry. I didn't see your senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the item be placed on the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. The Legislative Commission presented its report, contained in print No 81 S, in September 2020. It's been almost a year and a half, and the project is pending trial by the Senate. This is the only such case in the current Senate term. In addition, and among others, It made me come forward today with this proposal. Soon it will be February 27th, the date when it was released so-called. the decree of Göring, which was wound up in Germany. In short, I will only remind you, because some of you may not remember: the draft resolution condemns this decree, annuls it from the beginning and removes its consequences from the legal space, including compensation for damages and losses for the Polish Union in Germany. Once again, please put this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u5	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Senator Klein. [[Senator Kleina.]] Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, I object to this, because we are preparing a large exhibition in the Senate devoted to the Polish Union in Germany, so I think it will be an opportunity for us to adopt a resolution at such a time. And it is organized jointly with the Polish House in Złotów and with the whole environment, which is connected with the movement of the Polish Union in Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u7	As I understand it, there's a motion and an objection. And one more sentence, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. We are not opening a discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u8	I'm against it, too, but with another reason. [[Voice from the room: Why...]] This resolution, which Senator Czerwiński is seeking, is of no historical significance, only it concerns a return to an organization of the same name as the one before the war, with the same name but not anything to do with a pre-war organization. And this organization also took into account the application for the return of the property of the pre-war rod, which was located in the territory of present Poland after 1945, also in Szczecin and other pre-war centers of Rodła, which were located in the territory of Poland. That's why I'm against your motion, Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u9	Thank you very much. [[But...]] No, we're not having a discussion. Senator, there's a motion, there's an objection. Let me remind you that, in connection with the previous controversial resolution, I promised you something and implemented it. And in this matter, today, if you'll allow me... In the context of Senator Kleina and Marshal Borusewicz's speech, I have nothing but to vote in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Who is in favour of Senator Czerwiński's request to complete the agenda? Raise your hand and press the button. Who's against this conclusion? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 42 votes, 48 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The motion was not accepted. Later, during the proceedings, I invite Senator Martynowski and Senator Czerwiński to join me for coffee. We'll talk about what's next with these projects. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland's 10th term of office. I would like to inform you that there will be a vote on this matter immediately after the first point has been considered. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that a half-hour break will be announced at 12.00, during which the exhibition will be opened. Under the same sky. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow, at 3 p.m., a meeting will be held in the Senate plenary room with European Commission Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič responsible for interinstitutional relations and forecasting. The meeting will adopt the videoconference formula with the participation of translators. I strongly encourage your senators to take part in this meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the National Army. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 635. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! This is another special resolution concerning the period, the time of World War II, not the first and probably not the last resolution concerning this period, taken by the High Senate, a period very important for the fate of Poland. I will mention here the resolution adopted by this House in this only term commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Battle of Britain and its Polish Heroes, which was taken in October 2020, and the resolution on the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the fourth deportation which we took in June 2021. These resolutions, as well as this current resolution, aim to pay tribute to Polish heroes fighting for a free and independent homeland. The National Army is an event on a European and global scale. Its creators, members and soldiers must be honored. The fight waged by the National Army was unparalleled in any other country of occupied Europe. National Army Intelligence has made an invaluable contribution to the final victory of allies. One of his greatest successes was the acquisition of information about the design and location of the research centers of V-1 and V-2 weapons. The first technical data was provided to the British and Americans in December 1942. In March 1943, Polish intelligence thoroughly penetrated the centre in Peenemünde. After his bombing and transfer of the test ground by the Germans to Scarna near Tarnow, the Home Army's intelligence observed the trials conducted there, so that it gained significant components of these missiles. Their descriptions and entire components were transmitted to London. Interview of the Home Army gained among others. plans of prototypes of tanks, miniature submarines, data on anti-aircraft guns produced in Stalowa Wola and new battle gases. He also gained plans for the German operation Its culmination was the action of the Storm and the Warsaw Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen, today's memory of those times is our duty. The fact that we can be and work in the Polish Parliament today is thanks to them too. Of course, the content of the resolution is not able to fully describe the nature of the activities of the Home Army, but rather to pay due homage. Many historian senators can probably tell more about the Home Army and its activities. Probably many senators have family members, friends who worked in the Home Army. I belong to them personally, because my grandfather's brother Paweł Komorowski died at the beginning of the Warsaw Uprising, and his symbolic grave is located at the Powęzkowski Cemetery. Thank you for agreeing on the text of this resolution in inter-club mode, especially Senator Halina Poor. I will present to the High Senate the text of the proposed resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the National Army. On 14 February 1942, the Order of the Supreme Chief of the Polish Armed Forces, General Władysław Sikorski's weapons, was established by the National Army of the Polish Army, which is an integral part of the Polish Armed Forces. It was subject to the constitutional authorities of the state operating in the country and was subject to its commandant, the Chief Leader. The first commandant of the Home Army was dyw. Stefan Rowecki, ps. The following is dyv. Tadeusz Komorowski, ps. Bór, and gen. brig. Leopold Okulicki, ps. Bear. The National Army was Europe's largest underground army organized to fight the invader. In 1944, there were about 350,000 sworn soldiers. The fight waged by the National Army was unparalleled in any other country of occupied Europe. It was distinguished by a huge variety of activities, such as:: interview, counter-intelligence, diversion, independence propaganda, courier and radio communications, human resources training, legalisation, weapons acquisition, production of means of combat, as well as conspiracy presence in POW camps and extermination camps. The National Army has been a mass organization since the beginning, increasing ranks by recruiting volunteers and continuing the joint action launched by the Armed Forces. They joined the National Army, among others.: The Secret Army of Poland, the Polish Armed Organization, the Mark, the People's Guard PPS-WRN, the Secret Military Organization, the Armed Confederation, the Socialist Military Organization, the Polish Freedom Union, and partly the National Military Organization, the Boys' Battalions and the National Armed Forces. The Warsaw Uprising culminated in the military effort of the National Army. After his defeat, an AK unit in Red Army occupied areas was demobilized. On January 19, 1945, Chief Chief General Brig. Leopold Okulicki, issued an order to disband the Home Army. In view of the repression of Soviet and Polish security services not all troops obeyed the order to demobilise. New conspiracy organizations were established, among others. Resistance movement of the Home Army and Association of Freedom and Independence. National Army soldiers were persecuted by the communist authorities, especially during Stalinism. Many of them were sentenced to death or to years of imprisonment. It is estimated that in total, some 100,000 soldiers of the Home Army were killed in the fights. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of the Home Army for the fate of Poland and the Second World War, pays tribute to all its soldiers, our Heroes. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. In conclusion, I propose... I know the flowers were folded on February 14th, but I suggest the senators lay flowers under the National Army monument around 4:00 p.m. In this respect, please contact me or possibly Senator Halina Poor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u11	Thank you very much, senator. I strongly support the application for a flower ligament. We're not gonna announce a special break. I think the delegation will be able to go to the nearest monument. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't take much time. I think it's very good. I would like to express my thanks to Senator Mark Komorowski, who was one of the main or principal initiators of this resolution, and to express his gratitude that we can so quickly consider the draft resolution. Indeed, the situation is special. On almost the 80th anniversary of the National Army we have a Senate meeting and it is very good that we will be voting on this project in a moment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, contrary to the quite widespread opinion of events related to the eighty-year-old, there was quite a lot of talk about state celebrations with the participation of the President and other important representatives of the Polish state. Of course, there are times of pandemics, various problems, tensions in the East. Perhaps this anniversary that deserves to be recorded more widely in the public opinion and a reminder of these facts from our tragic history of the 20th century would find a bigger reception... All the more reason for Senator Komorowski's and the Senate's credit is great, because we are taking up this subject. Senator Marek Komorowski mentioned that probably among us, today's senators of the Republic of Poland, very many, or perhaps everyone, has in a closer or further family someone who somehow cooperated with the Polish Underground State. We're talking about the Home Army today. The National Army was part of a phenomenon within occupied Europe. The Polish lands were occupied and occupied by Nazi Germany, and by the Soviet Union, so it was a double occupation. Some even believe that there was more of these occupations if we recall the dramatic events in the East of 1939 and 1941. The Polish Underground State has created a unique structure in occupied Europe. I will remind you that apart from the armed arm, which was the National Army, and this was the merger of very different organizations, which were formed practically since September 1939, and thus during the ongoing defence war... Already then, some of the Polish military structures went into conspiracy with General Michał Karashewicz, and then the Armed Fighting Union and a whole range of other organizations were formed. The establishment of the National Army was aimed at integrating these various military environments, which were also in a sense the emanation of political movements that functioned in the interwar period in Poland. And it must be said that the April Constitution and the functioning of the government on emigration, this continuation of the constitutional authorities of the Republic of Poland in a situation of war enabled the formation, in a legal sense, of structures of the underground state. In the framework of this country, apart from military structures, there was a judicial system, there were also other papers and departments, departments that dealt with areas of civil life in occupied Poland. High Izbo, Senator Komorowski mentioned relatives. I'd like to mention my father, the lieutenant of the Home Army. Jerzy Jackowski He was a lieutenant of the Home Army in Lviv... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Please keep your voice down!]] And about these Poles, who especially experienced during the occupation of this kind of double occupation - first the Soviet, then the German, then the second Soviet. Dramas of these millions of Poles who lived in these areas, and their subsequent post-war fates, are still an issue that is important for the construction of our national community. I mean, it's called. The northern and western lands were largely inhabited by Poles, Polish citizens who came or were... That's where the so-called one came in. repatriating, the Soviets brought it in. By the way, it was a very perverse, demonic procedure, because these Poles felt at home where they lived, they didn't have to return to their homeland, because they didn't leave it, but they simply, for political reasons, were displaced from these areas or forced to leave. I think it's an important reminder of our latest story. And once again, I would like to thank Senator Komorowski very warmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u13	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the National Army. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the National Army. [[Applause]] I'm glad it was unanimous. We proceed to the second agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2021 (Slovenia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is contained in print No 620. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At its meeting on 16 February 2022, the Commission examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the European Union Minister, Mr Konrad Szymański, present at the meeting. Hello, Minister. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! The Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union took place between 1 July and 31 December 2021, has ended relatively recently, and it has already been the fourth Presidency in pandemic conditions and with all the consequences of the pandemic, particularly in the economic area, but also in the governance of the European Union. In this area, there has been relatively much going on with regard to the work of the Presidency, and I am thinking, above all, of the adoption of conclusions on the readiness of the European Union for future crises, that is to say, to draw institutional conclusions from the first months of the pandemic, where the various forms of coordination had to be used ad hoc. In the case of such crises, we are necessarily dealing very often with the situation that Member States must take action in the area of their exclusive competence. This makes the European Union unable to act alone. This does not mean, however, that there is no urgent need at least to coordinate these activities, in particular as regards the protection of the common market, so that the economic costs, costs for people, for companies, associated with the consistency of the common market are as minimal as possible. This was not the case at the beginning of the pandemic, because we have all been put in an emergency situation, often dramatic, but the actions carried out by the Slovenian Presidency in this area were aimed at preparing institutional forms of coordination, the flow of information in a better way. The second important point is the establishment of a regulation of the European Health emergency preparedness and response office, HERA. This is an institution to gather all the experiences, and good, and bad, first months of pandemic. In the ordinary way, it is intended to focus on funding research, exchange information, in order to shape models for anticipation of future crises as far as possible. In crisis mode, it will focus on even better co-ordination of joint purchases, procurement, and the management of stocks of those things that will be needed in the context of future, unknown to us until the end of the crises. The mandate of the European Medicines Agency, as well as the Agency for disease prevention and control has been strengthened. Both of these institutions were crucial in terms of the process of allowing the medicines necessary to combat the pandemic. The mandate is reinforced mainly in the area of the purchase of medicines and medical devices. Recommendations on border traffic have also been revised in order to further protect capacity, liquidity at the internal borders of the European Union. A very important part of the pandemic experience is the issue of market protection in terms of purely economic terms. Many initiatives are being undertaken here. The regulation on foreign subsidies certainly deserves attention in the area of the Slovenian Presidency. It is about better control as regards acquisitions, consolidations and participation in the European public procurement market of third-country companies, which often benefit from extremely generous subsidies, which may disturb the situation in the common market. The Slovenian Presidency is also the beginning of work, the very beginning of work on the European Union's new climate policy. From the beginning, before these projects were announced, many months before that, Poland pointed out that the success of European climate policy is closely linked to the fulfilment of the essential condition. The transition must be fair in terms of burden sharing not only between Member States, not only between economic sectors but also between social groups. Protection of the most vulnerable to variable energy prices of social groups is a key dimension of the Polish position on this issue. This caused Poland to pay attention to an extremely risky project involving the ETS of construction and transport. In this case, In particular, we take into account the completely fresh, up-to-date experience with the ETS and its unpredictability, we would be faced with a situation in which this unpredictability, the volatility of this system would not only affect businesses, but often serious economic operators, but also ordinary citizens. Poland will not agree to solutions which will create even some similar risks for citizens. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please close the dialogue. Eventually, in the clowns...]] Significant progress has been made with regard to the minimum wage directive negotiated. Poland has done a great deal in recent years to significantly raise labour protection standards, wage standards, and we have therefore been interested and committed to working on this directive. An agreement has been reached which primarily takes into account the specificities of national systems and the role of the social partners. This is crucial in terms of collective labour agreements that are important in other Member States. The mechanisms for indexing and reference to national reference values are also included there in a way that gives an opportunity to adopt this solution. Very important progress has been made with regard to the Council's work on digital issues. The first issue is the DSA, i.e. the regulation on digital services. This regulation plays a key role in improving the balance between users, citizens and online platforms, in particular large ones. It matters. not only theoretical, but also practical. This is particularly the issue of freedom of expression, freedom of expression, which should be protected not only by internal policies of companies, but also by institutional guarantees of a constitutional nature, the nature of public law, and by courts. The second regulation relating to the digital market is intended to better balance the relationship between small and medium-sized enterprises in the digital economy and those large, dominant platforms which today have a powerful impact on the shape of this market. Poland refers to these works with approval. They are very advanced, and we can expect an agreement on this between the Council and Parliament during the current French Presidency. In the context of the conference on the future of Europe, Poland drew attention to 3 important elements. Firstly, I would mention the recognition and respect of the Treaty's competence order, and secondly, the institutional balance as regards the follow-up work after the closing of the conference on the future of Europe, a conference which is by nature civic and is a kind of huge social consultation in this area. Thirdly, we drew attention to the need to ensure pluralism of the opinion in this sociological, social exercise. And that was the main message on our part. Another issue is the Schengen area. We already had quite a lot of experience in the functioning of the Schengen area under completely new conditions. In particular, it was about the instrumental treatment of migration and the pressure on the external borders of the Schengen area. For this reason, we have highlighted the need to reform not only how the Schengen rules are applied, but also the rules themselves, the regulation of the Schengen area itself. This is primarily about screening of third-country nationals at the external borders and a reform based on an evaluation mechanism that responds to this whole new situation, which is extremely dangerous. not only from a security point of view, but also from the Schengen area's functionality. This has been the case, in particular, for us, Lithuania and Latvia, of course, in connection with Belarus' actions. We note that the migration conditionality, i.e. the substantive constructive attitude of the European Union towards third countries, should be part of the European Union's development policy. Cooperation with countries of origin and transit in the area of migration is crucial, as demonstrated by the way the problem was solved at the Belarusian border. Cooperation and constructive political dialogue with countries such as Turkey, and in particular Iraq in that particular case, were of paramount importance in order to mitigate the effects of this crisis. Another important element for Slovenia was the issue of enlargement. It is not only a matter of agreeing to accept Croatia into the Schengen area, it is primarily about enlargement, in the right sense, of the countries of the Western Balkans. Poland has for years stressed that delays in this respect are detrimental to the security interests of Europe, the European Union in the Western Balkans, that inertia, the passiveness of the European Union in this area gives, opens up opportunities for the expansion of interests of other competing countries, powers in this area, and that is why we have been paying attention to this. The aim is to ensure that the adoption of new rules on the methodology for conducting these discussions, the negotiation of the Member States as soon as possible opens up real talks, in particular as regards Albania and Northern Macedonia. Due to internal tensions, internal political constraints in some Member States have not been the case. All the time, also during the French Presidency, we stress that it is in the Union's interest to break this internal crisis. We also had to deal with the summit of the Eastern Partnership, an initiative which is extremely important from a Polish point of view. We raised a few points there, which were reflected in the final declaration. Firstly, it was to take account of the European aspirations in particular of the associated trio of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Secondly, further integration of the economies of these countries into the common market. All these countries have association agreements, so they are already very integrated, but we believe that the continuation of this process will have a positive impact on the economies of these countries, on reforms. Thirdly, the role of energy security. Europe will not be able to deal with energy security problems without the Eastern Partnership countries. Fourth The problem of the instrumentalisation of migration. This is a specific problem that has emerged at our eastern border, and it has also been raised in the context of the work at the Eastern Partnership Summit. Of course, this time of the Presidency Whatever the plans, the plans of the Slovenian Presidency were also sometimes very negative developments in the security situation in relation to Russia's actions towards Ukraine. This matter has been repeatedly attended by the Foreign Affairs Council, the European Council itself. Regardless of differences of opinion between Member States on certain issues which, in particular, were visible and loud at the time, it must be noted that these summits have made it possible to confirm very clearly, very unambiguously the attachment of all Member States, and thus of the EU institutions, to the 5 main principles which should govern the relations between the Union and Russia. Among these 5 principles, respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine is crucial. The last element I would like to draw attention to is, of course, the Belarusian hybrid attack on the eastern border of the European Union, the eastern Polish border. Poland introduced this topic to the European Councils in October and December. This allowed a clear and uniform position of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union on this matter, to be agreed. In accordance with Polish expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about this information? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, the Court of Justice of the European Union dismissed Poland and Hungary's complaint about the conditionality mechanism... [[Mr. Senator, I don't know if there's anything wrong with the microphone, but you can't hear very well here, so that Minister...]] Again. [[Oh, that's better.]] Today, the Court of Justice of the European Union dismissed Poland and Hungary's action on the conditionality mechanism. Minister, what are your scenarios for this at the moment? This is true now, but it also refers to the previous year, the previous six months.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u17	Minister, this is not the subject of your report, but... [[European Union Minister Konrad Szymański: No, I will be happy to answer, but should I answer such a question after questioning or to groups of questions?]] I think the question is after the question, because at 12:00 p.m., we're going to announce a break for the opening of the exhibition dedicated to Professor Bartoszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u18	Of course. Of course, the judgment, and in particular its justification, is the subject of a detailed analysis, but one thing can be said for sure after this first analysis. Polish opposition to the European Union budget protection regulation was based on the belief that many provisions of this regulation As it turned out in the course of the legislative work, but some of the records were known from the very beginning. It had a meaning that was ambiguous. They did not give a clear answer to what this regulation is intended to do at all, whether it is intended to serve what is set out in the title of the regulation, i.e. to protect the budget. After all, we all agree, there is no controversy that public money, whether it be the Polish taxpayer or the European taxpayer, should be protected as far as possible. Maybe some other things and other things are the objectives of this regulation. The Court of Justice rejected Poland's doubts as to whether this regulation was correctly written, but at the same time acknowledged that the regulation was compatible with the Treaties, because it can only be applied in the case of corruption, embezzlement and public finances risks of the European Union. If so, if the Court of Justice can seriously oblige the European Commission and all those concerned to read the regulation in this way, then we have no cause for concern. However, if the European Commission is to push for the importance of this mechanism to extend to other spheres, to any other sphere, then, of course, this problem and this tension will persist. The justification for the judgment, as well as the communication sent by the TSEU today at 9.30, stresses in many places that it is only about issues where there is a risk or a threat to the European Union's finances. If so, it is good, because it is a position which Poland has been presenting from the very beginning. But, of course, given our experience in this and other matters, we have some doubts about how this regulation will be applied. We will check whether the European Commission is holding to the understanding that the EUJEU has presented, the understanding that the European Council has presented, and the understanding that we expect from this mechanism, which is to be This is due, for example, to the legal basis, to serve only and exclusively to watch over European money. We absolutely agree on that. Poland in this respect has very good results, very good achievements. In Poland, public money is protected, you can say, four times better than the EU average, because in Poland, the risk indicators of the sum of money, which are suspected to be embezzled, may be the subject of corruption, are much lower than the EU average. Well, if that's the case, then we don't have a problem and we can stay calm. If anyone tries to abuse the provisions of this regulation, the problem will come back.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] I don't see any volunteers. [[European Union Minister Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see there's no... [[Two people signed up.]] There's two people registered, but they're not in the O.R. [[Voice from the room: No. Senator Klich is.]] Oh, excuse me. Except, Mr. Senator, I have to say, in a minute, we're announcing a break for the opening of the exhibition... [[Voice from the room: In that case...]] Good. Thank you very much. I therefore close the discussion. I understand that the Minister has already answered the questions asked and that more of the Minister does not want to speak. Yes? Thank you very much to Minister Konrad Szymanski for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2021 (Slovenia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). I'm closing the point and thank you for being here. Dismissed until 12:30. I invite you to the foyer to open an exhibition dedicated to the senator, the minister, Prof. Władysław Bartoszewski. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u20	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The text of the act is contained in print No 621 and the report of the committee In print No 621 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector The aim of the Act is to create a legal framework enabling implementation of government policy on strengthening energy security of the Republic of Poland. The assumptions contained in the draft law will increase the availability of storage capacity for the oil sector, which is necessary to ensure continuity of supply of the domestic oil and fuel market in crisis situations, as well as due to the need for the current management and optimisation of the PKN refinery's operation, the Płock Stock Company, as well as the difficulties reported by manufacturers and traders and the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency to obtain the warehouse service for intervention and commercial stocks. These changes will allow for efficient investment, which will increase the availability of tanks, caverns, storage capacity for oil and oil products, as well as transport pipelines for oil and oil products. In short, High Izbo, it is indeed the case that new solutions will facilitate and accelerate the expansion and modernisation of storage capacity mainly in the Underground Oil and Fuel Warehouse, which, together with investments in oil pipeline, petroleum products, will increase the capacity of the underground cavern warehouse to store and supply these raw materials and products to the market. This investment is necessary due to the energy security of our country, as well as to the increased storage capacity of oil and fuels. The Act therefore provides for various investments. These investments are set out in the Annex, which is attached to this Act. They will consist of an extension or reconstruction along with the infrastructure accompanying, inter alia. Warehouse part of the Oil &amp; Fuel Underground Warehouse, the Mountain Salt Mine and the Mogilno Salt Mine, the new stone salt hole mine in Lubień Kujawski, existing oil pipelines or oil products linking the Mountain cavern warehouse with the Pern SA pipeline system and the mine in the area of the stone salt deposit. There was a committee meeting yesterday. The Legislative Office had no objections to the bill. There was also no discussion during the meeting, and there were no questions to the Minister in connection with the provisions of this law. In view of the above, an application was made for the adoption of the Law without amendment and such a request was unanimously adopted by the members of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Therefore, I also ask the High House to adopt a law amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector without amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u22	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question. Of course, I support this bill, it is good and it should come into force. But does it only concern the specific ones, say, the location of the tanks and what is described in the bill? Why do I ask? Because in my voivodeship, near my town, there is a city called Bytom Odrzański and there are giant salt tanks which at the moment one of the operators wants to use to collect just natural gas. These subterranean tanks are already being prepared for operation today. Does this law apply only to these specific locations, or does it apply to such projects in other locations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u24	Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Senator... may I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u25	Mr Senator, there was no mention of this in the committee because the sitting was very short, so I would ask very much to address this question to the Minister who is present in our plenary. There is an annex to this law which indicates specific investments. But does this close the catalogue of these investments? I can't answer that question. I'm sure it's right to refer them to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u26	Thank you. You ask Senator Joseph the Hare, remotely. There you go, Mr. Senator. We have a technical problem here, please wait a moment, Senator. [[Disruption during the speech]] [[...a tank that used to be one of the strategic tanks...]] Senator, ask the question from the beginning, because we haven't heard the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u27	Good. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, referring to the words of the predecessor who asked about such existing tanks, I would like to know if there is any census... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...farmers... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...for fuel... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...under Chelm at a distance of a few... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...there is such a huge tank of fuel by rail... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...fuels to the car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u28	Thank you. There you go. [[I didn't hear the exact question, because unfortunately something was interrupting...]] Mr. Senator, I'd ask you again. I'm sorry, but the senator didn't hear. [[I think everybody had a problem because...]] Yeah, yeah, we had a problem. [[Can you hear me now?]] Yes. [[It seems so.]] [[Now...]] But why don't you turn off the video, you'll hear better. Just a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u29	Good. I'm shutting down the video. I'll cut the question short. Is there an inventory of existing liquid fuel tanks such as petrol, oil, etc. I'm asking because there's a huge tank near Chelm with railroad access. In it you can accumulate really huge amounts I can't tell you how much it is right now. Fuel, and you're going to build these tanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u30	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sure the question is very valid. Unfortunately, I can't answer them because we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. So if the senator decides... I think that the very good address of this question will be Minister Maciej Małecki, who is here with us in the Chamber. It's just that the committee meeting didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u32	Thank you, Senator. No further questions for the senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator, Mrs. Marshal. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Maciej Małecki like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe I'll give you the key information for this bill. We are talking about already existing tanks, underground tanks, so-called. Caverns. And in these tanks, which belong to the Orlen Group, the company IKS Solino has already accumulated crude oil and oil products have already been collected. What's with the bill? This law introduces solutions that will facilitate pumping, faster pumping and oil and fuel. We're not building new fuel tanks and oil tanks, we're talking about infrastructure, bringing in a brine that can pump out what's stored there more efficiently. By the way, there may be an additional capacity in terms of gas, with the deposit of stone salt, Damasławek. And we're talking about a particular investment that's written in the annex to the bill, we're not talking about other tanks in the country. The senator's question is asked remotely. I think Mr. Senator may be referring to Fuel Base 13 in the Chelma Railway, a storage and reloading fuel base, where there is a trans-shipment from a wide track to a European track, to a normal track. It's a general term. The matter for which the Government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Minister Piotr Naimski, is responsible in the government. It is responsible for storage facilities in PERN fuel bases, the transfer infrastructure of PERN, the electricity infrastructure in PSE, and the gas transmission infrastructure in Gaz-System. We are talking about an underground cavern warehouse, which belongs to Orlen. The modernisation of the infrastructure allowing faster pumping of oil and fuels will lead to a situation where the oil can be extracted in its entirety in 150 days from 1 January 2024 and 90 days from 1 January 2029 and the fuel in its 90 days from 1 January 2024. Once again, I stress: we are talking about an existing warehouse, and the records of the specialization, which already cover other transport investments in Poland, will allow for a more efficient conduct of this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u34	Thank you, Minister. Just a minute, because maybe there'll be questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: I will sit down.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u35	I'm just trying to catch up on the subject. I care very much because this is a huge opportunity for local governments from my territory. Once again, this law concerns a specific location, specific solutions, and as far as other locations are concerned, it will be a new law. Is that what I'm saying? It's just that I get it right. Will it be necessary for each location to carry out such a law? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Senator...]] I'll just add the last sentence. It's about Bytom Odrzański, it's about huge, giant carb tanks. And there's some company I don't know... Yeah, I was trying to find out about the Energo-Salt company. I don't know if it's a Polish company or a German company. I have no idea. I mean whether this procedure will have to be carried out for each location, or whether this new law will introduce regulations allowing the potential of municipalities to be exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u36	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u37	I'll answer again. I don't know what the plans are. This is not in our area of competence. I'm not talking about the work of that company you mentioned. I'm telling you what this bill is about. This bill, special act, concerns the introduction of special solutions to facilitate Orlen's investment. It concerns already existing cavern warehouse, oil warehouse and liquid fuels located in Góra in the district of Inowroclaw. And this is about getting an extra saline for faster fuel pumping. I'm not going to refer to other magazines.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u38	Thank you. Minister, I understand that this bill only applies to Orlen, one Orlen magazine. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u39	Yeah, a specific warehouse, a cafeteria. [[Kavern.]] The one I replaced.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u40	Good. Then I'm not gonna ask you about Mechelinks anymore. Are there any other questions? [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u41	Minister, could you tell us to what extent current warehouses secure our consumption? How much is the capacity of these warehouses with average consumption? Please specify this in days or months, of course, if possible. And then there's the second line. In fact, it's about pumping out faster, mostly oil. But shouldn't we also build new warehouses? Do we have that possibility? We have, for example. any old excavations that are sealed and which can be used for this purpose? Are we going to move towards increasing capacity, not just pumping speed?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u42	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u43	Mr Senator, as I said in my previous statement, the government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Mr Piotr Naimski, is responsible for the storage of fuel, oil and gas. I can tell you that there's still an expansion of storage capacity, because apart from the cafeteria we're talking about today, Orlen's warehouse... I am here because the rights of Orlenu shares are exercised by the Minister of State Assets. In addition, there is a systematic expansion of ground warehouses, which belong to the PERN group. This capacity is constantly enlarged, so I think it's... As far as the Polish economy is concerned, I think that about 90 days of operation are protected by fuel warehouses.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Jolanta Hibner, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Gromek, Władysław Komarnicki, Mariusz Gromko, Maciej Łuczak, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Grzegorz Czelej made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 622, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 622 A and 622 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs and the Local Government Commission discussed yesterday at a meeting on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other acts of print No 622. It is a law which aims to introduce legal solutions to enable local government units to complete the implementation of the so-called "local government." I would like to stress here that this applies to grant projects which were not included in the previous Act, which were not covered by the previous Act, October, for the installation or purchase of photovoltaic micro-installations. The present law amends the rules for settlement of prosumers introduced by the Act of 29 October 2021. The Act will enter into force on 1 April of this year. The changes introduced by the October Act could have a very negative impact on the possibility of completing umbrella and grant projects due to the resignation of those interested in funding. The amendment adds point 3 in Article. 4d paragraph 2 of the Renewable Energy Act of 20 February 2015 pursuant to which the person concerned is concerned about the prosumer of renewable energy, which concluded, by 31 March 2022, a contract for the purchase, installation or financing of micro-installations with a local government unit or other eligible entity and made a proper notification for the connection of this micro-installation to the electricity distribution network by 31 December 2023. I will remind you that the amendment indicates the deadline of 31 December 2023 and the previous law, adopted in October, proposed the deadline: July 2022. ... This person will be able to settle the electricity produced and collected under the existing rules, i.e. In the desert system. As I said, the terms contained in the previous Act were very unfavourable to prosumers, so we discussed how to change them. The solutions that are included in the Act today were proposed by the opposition as early as October last year, but unfortunately they were not adopted. At that time we also indicated that the grant projects were not covered by the law. We are delighted that this law has finally come into effect, that these amendments have been made. It is only a pity that it lasted 3 months, because from what the local authorities have signaled to us, it appears that many prosumers have resigned, not wanting to use new solutions that will apply in April 2022. Both committees, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Local Government recommend the adoption of a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u46	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A joint meeting of 2 committees, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place yesterday. The purpose of the meeting of these committees was to review the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other acts Andrzej Gawron, who is here with us today, briefly referred to this law. He said that this was an amendment that was expected and which did not raise any controversy. In the Sejm, this law was passed in the wording proposed by the committee by 457 votes in favour, with two abstentions and no votes against. At the meeting of the Joint Committees there was also the Deputy Minister for Climate and Environment, Minister Ireneusz Oda. It should be noted that the Legislative Office did not make any comments. A brief discussion took place at the joint committee meeting. The most important question and answer I felt was whether, if someone did not receive the decision to join, would not be allowed by 31 March 2022, would not be able to connect, would not be allowed to do so, he would be able to benefit from these old rules, whether he would be able to benefit from these favourable conditions and for 15 years to benefit from the discounts. Minister Gaina said that, yes, but the date of submission to the operator of the electricity distribution network, i.e. the one which makes the decision to join. A vote took place at the joint committee meeting. There were 20 votes in favour, which means this bill was unanimously recommended. I, too, ask the Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u48	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't hear that kind of question... Oh, there it is. Senator Piech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u49	All I have is a statement... There was such a suggestion that these amendments were not included in that legislative proposal, but I tabled these amendments at the previous Senate meeting, and you rejected the bill, and these amendments were not included in the bill. That's too bad. But we fixed that mistake, and it's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u50	And the question, Mr. Senator? [[I can, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u51	If I may, I would add that at the meeting of the Joint Committee there was a request from Senator Chróścikowski, who asked the Minister to draw attention to all those who already benefit from the photovoltaic connection. It's about subsidies, it's about subsidising energy stores. The Minister agreed to this, accepted it and said that the climate ministry would take this into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u52	Thank you very much. [[Can I?]] But there was no question, Senator. [[But I would like to refer to this suggestion that is not true.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the previous meeting, in October, when we were discussing this law, amendments were tabled which concerned the change of the deadline for closing the investment, but there were no amendments concerning the inclusion of grant projects, which is extremely important because a large group of prosumers benefit from these grant programmes. Thank you very much. [[Thank you...]] Therefore, the bill was not adopted at the October Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u54	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Andrzej Gawron was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the subject of the bill? [[Yes.]] Politely, please, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! The Commission's reports have already presented in detail this law, which was adopted by the Sejm. I would like to mention so briefly that this law concerns more than 800 municipalities and nearly 94 000 potential prosumers, photovoltaic installations. It is therefore an important element for local authorities and for those who could possibly install photovoltaic installations. Its main objective is also to maximise the use of funds from regional operational programmes, because it is these funds under umbrella and grant programmes that are being used. And it was a good thing that the Sejm adopted this law, this amendment of the law, which, as if in the initial phase, was mainly intended to change the way photovoltaic installations were cleared. So that if the Senate agrees to these arrangements and votes in favour of this law, these people will be able to benefit from this clearing system, which will be in force until 1 April. This is a quantitative billing system. So that if these installations are built the way they have been built so far, it will be a system more beneficial for prosumers. I would like to thank all the Members who supported this parliamentary project. Well, the deadline was very short. In December, solutions were adopted for the new clearing system, and in order to effectively protect these prosumers and create a tool for these umbrella and grant schemes to be implemented, these provisions must enter into force before 1 April. I thank the Members who participated in the whole legislative process to support this legislative process. Of course, I would also like to thank Minister Ireneus Zyska, who supported the Ministry of Parliament's work so that these solutions could enter into force. I will refer to this discussion again. Well, there was an amendment, practically identical, presented in the Senate... And so it happened that the entire bill was challenged. But we're looking forward. We have a new solution that meets the expectations of local governments, meets the expectations of prosumers. Let's make sure this solution comes into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There might still be a question for you... Are there any questions for the Member? There isn't. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Do you wish to speak as a representative of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: I would like to ask you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome to the podium. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u57	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! It was with great satisfaction that I accepted this parliamentary bill, which is already under discussion by the higher chamber of the Polish Parliament today. This is the implementation of requests made by local government units regarding the possibility of completing projects carried out within the framework of the so-called. umbrella and grant programmes with European funding, i.e. from the Regional Operational Programmes for the period 2014 to 2020 This is the final part of the implementation of this budgetary perspective of the European Union and de facto it is the exercise of acquired rights or the possibility of the exercise of rights acquired by future prosumers. This initiative is also linked to ensuring that the municipalities implement these programmes. As a parliament, we come to the aid of local government units so that they can carry out their umbrella programmes so that they do not have to pay their resources under the RPO so that the possible consequences of the non-fulfilment of these programmes do not have to be borne. I must refer here to the statements of my esteemed previous speakers. At the beginning, I would like to thank all the senators from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, from the Committee on the Environment, also from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. All these committees gave a positive opinion on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth it in very short words, just as to the facts, to show what the legislative process looked like in this case. Well, on October 29th, Ub. r. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. It was a bill that changed the prosumer billing system from so-called. Net-billing drains. He will enter into force on 1 April this year. During the discussion, at the meeting of the Sejm committee, the representation of local governments presented a very serious problem. As it turned out, more than 840 municipalities implement these umbrella programs. In total, these prosumer installations can be up to 94 thousand on a national scale. This is why we have decided that these projects need to be covered. On the basis of the exercise of acquired rights, these contracts were signed earlier when there was not yet a change in the prosumer settlement system The current prosumer clearing system. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, at the Seym stage, this was no longer possible. That's why... Here I would like to thank the senators, Senator Wojciech Piesza and Senator Jack Bogucki, who tabled amendments on 25 November at the meeting of the Joint Committee, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment. Senator Wojciech Piecha has tabled an amendment concerning the inclusion of umbrella programs, the inclusion of these umbrella schemes in the system of drains, and Senator Bogucki The amendment concerning the grant programmes. Here I am sending you senators, because there were some inconsistencies, to the minutes of the meeting of these joint committees. There you can see that, indeed, the senators have tabled these amendments. After the meeting of the committee in the Sejm, in the meantime, between the adoption of the law by the Sejm and the implementation of the draft law in the Senate, we took part in several video conferences with representatives of local government units. Representatives of more than 40 municipalities as representation, as well as representatives of marshal offices participated in these conferences. There we have de facto developed these proposals, which were then included in the amendments tabled by Senator Piecha and Senator Bogucki. Unfortunately, then the High House rejected the entire bill. Therefore, the Sejm could only reject this veto of the Senate, it was done at the beginning of December last year, and can no longer be was to make that change. This is only as much as historical facts in this legislative process. I'd like to show you that you did. I'm sending it back to the files. As for this bill, I am delighted and thank you very much to all the senators for this, because it was unanimous at committee meetings, no one abstained, there were no votes against. I am pleased that we can keep our word to the local authorities, which are also given to the municipalities which are implementing these programmes, so that they can be 100% of them. Execute. I think there is still time for these stakeholders, those potential beneficiaries, who, as one senator here said, to withdraw their access from these programs, to return to them because the law gives this possibility. Those who sign the agreement with the municipality by 31 March 2022 will be able to join the electricity grid by the end of December 2023. So there is a long time to implement the project itself. I would also like to thank the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, who have submitted this bill as a parliamentary project. I would like to thank, first of all, Mr Andrzej Gawron, but also all the Members who signed this bill. And at the same time, I would like to say that three months in the legislative procedure in our country is an express rate, really. Believe me, it wasn't faster. Let us also bear in mind that in the Seym And so is the Senate, because this is the derivative. There is a queue of legislative acts pending in the legislative process. But given that this is a very urgent matter resulting from the date of entry into force of the new prosumer settlement system from 1 April, this law should enter into force before the end of March of this year. I believe that if the Senate adopts the bill at this meeting, and the head of state, the President will sign it in the near future, we will be able to make it possible for local government units to implement umbrella programmes and grant programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, that's actually it. If there's any questions for me, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u58	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like you to finish this one, I'd call it a historical feature, because he'll explain to us what the merits of the individual groups are here. This law is very beneficial. It was a proposition. That's how I understood it. In the amendments during the previous procedure. These amendments did not receive the Senate majority, the majority received a motion to reject the previous law, fortunately rejected by the Sejm. Who proposed this motion to reject the previous law in the High House? So, in short, who suggested... [[Let me get this straight.]] I don't want any explanation from you. I know you. Who proposed that the Senate should not accept amendments favourable to prosumers and, as you can see, for the municipalities which implement these programmes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u60	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I think the answer to that question is in the Senate minutes. I would not like to direct such a statement personally to anyone as Deputy Minister of Government here. I am pleased, however, that today it comes to the fact that, in consensus and in agreement, the senators see the purpose that this law pursues. So, in fact, we come most with the help of local government units, of course also prosumers, but to a lesser extent, because prosumers as individuals can also manage on their own, they can install this installation themselves. But it's worth saying here. 'Cause I didn't do it before. What are the characteristics of these umbrella and grant schemes? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this support is invaluable. It is at a very high level, depending on the municipality, and regional operational programmes offer the possibility to co-finance it at 60 the values of the installation. And let me remind you that there's still a thermomodernization relief that anyone can benefit from. So this support is at a very high level. So that I think that those who, somewhere discouraged, perhaps, or with certain concerns, have resigned quickly, having information that the Senate has adopted this law, will return to their municipalities, to your mightors, to carry out these programs together with the municipality. I believe, Mr. Senator, that those who urged the majority in the Senate to reject that bill may not fully understand the idea. Maybe there were emotions. I firmly believe that what we have done by implementing a new clearing system, which will be universally applicable from 1 April 2022, was necessary. This is also the result of the obligation to implement the European Directives, the Market Directive and the RED II Directive. I would like to remind you that the market directive requires that every energy market participant as the final consumer of energy, including prosumer, should bear a distribution variable fee, and today it is not borne by prosumers. The Directive with this provision should be implemented by 31 December 2020. For many objective reasons it did not happen, but among others. This law implements a narrow market directive in this respect. Well, the net-billing system is less attractive than empty but still attractive to those households that will not have a prosumer installation. It will serve both prosumers and stabilising the electricity system, increasing security through the distribution of energy within the distribution system operators. So that's a little emotional. I understand it all. In this statement by the representatives of the installation industry, which indicated that there may be some collapse in the market here, that there will be a loss of jobs, because a lot of such companies have been created in the last 2 years... I'm pretty sure that's not gonna happen. We also design software support in terms of funding from my current programme. 4.0 is expected to maintain high interest in these installations in the following months and years. There is already a large budget for the programme, so I am convinced that it will protect the market and we will soon, despite the concerns, assess well the solutions that Parliament adopted last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u62	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor and ask Senator Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a quick question. Did the Act of 29 October take into account the rights acquired by the municipalities? Did it correct or worsen the situation in which they were before the introduction of new solutions proposed by the government and in which they were subsequently found? I'm asking you not without a goat. Well, these thanks, which sound so beautiful today from the speaker, are not actually valid, because if the government were doing its work properly, no one would have to make up for government negligence today. And that's the last point. Really, the Senate is here to keep an eye on the right legislation. If something goes beyond the scope of the submission, it must not be accepted. This could be accepted under Article. 69 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, but we know what the fates of these initiatives are in the Seym. Therefore, you are once again solving the problems that you have multiplied.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u64	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, the bill you are talking about, the Act of 29 October 2021, did not cover both umbrella and grant programmes. I admit that this voice of representatives of local government units has been heard and treated properly by all By majority in the Sejm, as well as by the Ministry of Climate and Environment At the legislative stage in the Sejm, but it was too late to make this change. Therefore, the amendments appeared at the stage of work in the Senate. Mrs. Senator, it is absolutely not my intention to do anything here to anyone, which is why I have avoided, as you have probably noted, the names of individual persons who did not wish to adopt this law at the time, because it is important that today we correct this issue, that we manage to meet the demands of local government units and implement these demands. Maybe the most I should thank, which I also did in committees, just self-governments, especially Mr. Mayor of Nowy Targ Marcin Kolas or Mr. To the Commune of Lapsze Nizhne, Jakub Jamroz. These are the people who... Of course, those self-government officials, who were very active, were much more than a few dozen, but these 2 gentlemen in the form of such representation took on this burden, came to each meeting of the committee to the Sejm, to the Senate. I think that thanks to them too, thanks to their attitude they have managed to assume that these laws are in progress That's what we're gonna call them. They need to be respected and they need to be implemented. Previously, we assumed that the new billing model for prosumers would simply be universally valid for all those who would be in this prosumer after 1 April. This legal element in progress, the signing of contracts by prosumers, by beneficiaries in previous years has not been properly defined, I admit. Perhaps here we judged this issue too superficially at the time. But I am very happy because there was a consensus on the government side as well. It's not just the Ministry of Climate and Environment... I would like to point out that this is the distribution area, the energy transmission area. So other ministers also had to accept these proposals. Today, I thank the local authorities, I thank the Members of the House and I thank the Senators, and I thank the High House for the fact that this law, as we saw at committee meetings, has received universal acceptance, without votes against and without abstention, as part of the opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u66	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask what happened to the obstacle that you did not immediately proceed to the amendment that was wrongly adopted in October, since, as you say, the Senators of Law and Justice have tabled all the necessary amendments that we are adopting today. That's not true. You sent me back to hear what happened in October. I would also encourage you to pay attention to the fact that there was indeed an amendment on umbrella projects, there was no amendment on grant projects, and the change of deadline was from March to July, so it was just a funny solution. And that's why the Senate didn't take such a bad solution. And I'd like to ask... And it is amazing that you needed four months to prepare these two pages for the amendments that have been tabled by Members. And my second question: what objective considerations... [[Timer signal]] ...they did not allow the preparation of the deadline of 31 December 2023 for the completion of the investment in the first version of the Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u69	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, I would like you to take full account of the legislative process in Poland. Following the rejection of the Senate's veto by the Sejm on 2 December last year, the bill was signed by the President. It's been signed. It was published at the end of December. And in January, a group of parliamentarians of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice submitted a draft to the Marshal's staff. He was accepted by the Sejm's office, the number of the sejm printing was given, then your Marshal set the date for the project to enter the proceedings, and the first reading had to take place at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Acts. Well, there's no delay, it's a normal legislative path. And so very fast, because if we wanted to implement this project as a government project, I assure you that it would take much, much longer, many months longer, because it would have to go through all the committees of the Council of Ministers, etc. So here also thanks to the group of Members of the Law and Justice who introduced this project to the session of the Sejm. But, Senator, thank you very much. Because I am really glad that this law has a chance today or tomorrow to be adopted by the higher chamber of parliament, it has a chance to become the law in force in a short time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If I had to file a motion for rejection in the previous form again, I would have done so absolutely in full conviction. The Member who represents a group of applicants has merely confirmed what we have done here in the Senate. I quote the Member: the entries in this project, which is presented, are more favourable to prosumers. That's what you said, Mr. Speaker. What does it mean to benefit prosumers? Well, that's pretty much it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, this is already in the record, so don't back down. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. I'm gonna straighten out your word, too, because I heard a few things from yesterday until today. I love people who are significantly missing the truth, I love them, in quotes. Indeed, this law, which we are discussing today, restores the possibility of using the discount system, not the net billing system. Yes, Minister? This bill allows it. This bill goes back to a system that was in force before the adoption of this prosumer-proof law, which the Sejm adopted, rejecting the veto... There's nothing to laugh about, Minister, harmful, harmful, because so far, these solutions that... Although you're actually working so hard on the price of electricity, I think I'd have to go back, so expensive is the electricity... But I'm leaving it on the side for now. I'm just going back to one thing and nothing but a thread. The bill goes back to the discount system, not the net-billing system. She ends her life at the end of 2023 for a few reasons. One: there will indeed be EU accounts. Second: the directive gives a transitional period. The Act must enter into force by 1 January 2024, so we had no reason to give up the discharge system earlier. There was no obligation. For some reason, the government hurried. From what? The minister talked about it using this: because you pay, you pay, etc. Minister, you remember that, your stories, not very funny. 'Cause you're actually paying, you're paying For Jaworzno and the block standing, for Ostrołęka, 2 billion... There Kaczyński and various others celebrated, wasted a lot of money... Yes, yes, in 2015. I know you don't understand. It was all happening. It was all happening. It's all been going on for the last time. That bill we're discussing today didn't really cover No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, . grant projects. These amendments, which were tabled by the PiS senators, covered only umbrella projects. Well, if you're so smart, and you still have a clerk next to you, I'd love to see them. It's about grant projects, not umbrella projects. That's it. Finally, indeed, the senators have tabled various kinds of amendments, different senators, in this part concerning the rescue of projects financed by EU funds. I'm the only one who listened, from yesterday until today... At the committee meeting, you agreed to July 2022. You said you'd agree to that term. Besides, Senator Chróścikowski even asked it to be July 2022 so that we could at least agree so much. During the debate, here, in the courtroom. Mr. Senator, you confirm that. July 2022 And in this law, it's December 2023. That's the fundamental difference. Yes, this bill is worth doing for at least 840 municipalities and several thousand potential prosumers. But let me say this: I would like to make this bill for all Poles, not just for those. That's why you had to reject that very effectively, because it was and is harmful, simply, simply. I will say one more thing, more to the Minister for Renewable Energy. Indeed, the government effectively blocks the development of renewable energy sources in Poland. It's not funny, it's absolutely not funny. In 2016, a law was adopted which blocked the development of wind energy on land; ad acta of offshore activities were postponed until 2020 and they returned to the wallpaper by the end of 2020. But if someone's watching today... We all have a G fare in our homes, but if someone is watching the stock market price, they know it's from 800 to 1 thousand zlotys for 1 MWh. It's about this scale, that's how it's conquered there. And the attention in the nearby Lithuania, as we have all read, was reduced by 31% in the price of energy. Why? Because they used RES, they weren't afraid of windmills, they weren't scared. The chickens are still carrying, the cows are still milking. Don't be afraid of it. Really, don't be afraid of it. They weren't afraid of windmills, they weren't afraid of photovoltaics, they were used and it worked. Thanks to this, Lithuanian citizens today have cheaper electricity. Really, I repeat, thanks to this, Lithuanian citizens have cheaper electricity. We, once again, in the bill that we are adopting, are restoring desert solutions for a group of citizens. There will be no net-billing, we are leaving the system that the government introduced the previous bill. For 840 municipalities, I don't know how to sleep through it at all. Wake up! Hello, Minister, I'm talking to you. Sorry to bother you. Minister, I was talking to you. [[And the senators.]] I'd like the Minister to listen to me. [[Keep going.]] You slept through solutions for 840 municipalities. How is that possible? How is it possible that you slept through solutions for 840 municipalities? There are 2,500 municipalities. You've slept through these solutions, that's absolutely unacceptable. Where's the government? What are you doing? Don't you see all this stuff? You write a bill on your knees, and then you say something in the Senate. That kind of... And you're gonna say you don't name anyone. Minister, I am proud to have applied for the rejection of that harmful act. I'm gonna apply every time for rejection of anything harmful. She was harmful to the prosumer. [[Applause]] That's how I'm gonna act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u72	Thank you, Senator. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Will I be allowed to speak?]] Minister, if you really want to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: I would like to correct.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Minister, I would be obliged to let you speak if there were amendments. Then I'd let you go. There are no corrections, and I think there's no point in going into polemics. You thanked everyone... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Marshal, in that case, please...]] [[Voice from the room: But there is no...]] [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] Excuse me. Calm down, please. Just one more moment of peace, please. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Jolanta Hibner, Janusz Gromek, Joanna Sekula, Władysław Komarnicki, Mariusz Gromko, Ryszard Świlski, Stanisław... No, Stanisław Gawłowski spoke. ... Danuta Jazłowiecka, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Artur Dunin, Józef Łyczak presented their speeches to the minutes. The simplest thing would be if I said it was the same ones who did it at the previous point. Minister, you're welcome. Over here, please. If you have anything to say for the record, I'm afraid you have to come here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I have to note with great regret and regret the scandalous appearance of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. [[Voice from the room: No.]] High Izbo, I recommend to you the minutes of the meeting of the Joint Senate Committee of 25 November 2021, Protocol No 560 Z. There you will find the amendments tabled by Senator Jack Bogucki concerning the grant programmes and the amendment tabled by Senator Wojciech Piecha concerning the umbrella programmes. As for the alleged lack or bad policy pursued by the current government in the context of renewable energy sources, I would like to disappoint your senator. Never in the history of the Third Republic have renewable energy sources developed as well as today, even this is an investment boom. Since 2015, we have doubled the installed capacity of renewable energy sources, achieved the RES target for 2020, contracted further capacity in RES auctions and are a market leader in the area of photovoltaics in the European Union, for example. [[And we have the highest energy prices in Europe.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we have very good energy prices... [[Very good for the government.]] We have very good energy prices. Please compare our energy prices with energy prices e.g. in the Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, France, Portugal, Italy. Poland has much lower... [[We have lower...]] Yeah, it's got lower energy prices. Although they are slightly higher than in Lithuania, they can soon be evened out. And we are taking decisive action in this direction. And one more comment to Senator Gawłowski's statement. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Senator Gawłowski has no influence on climate and energy policy in our country. I'm so happy for you. [[And I'm very worried about that.]] ...because the senator's statement indicates that he has absolutely... no idea why the bill... [[Voices from the hall: No...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, stop this!]] ...why the bill... [[A voice from the court:... so the Minister wouldn't insult you. What's this?!]] [[Exactly. What the hell is that? What's this?]] [[All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, ……]] The Law of 29 October 2021 was adopted in the context of a revision of the rules on the settlement of prosumers. Well, Mr. Senator, I would like to inform you that the clearing system is universally applicable to all prosumers and enters into force from 1 April. The Senate, accepting today or tomorrow in a vote this bill that we are discussing today, does not return to the system of wasteland, does not restore the system of waste. My statement, which you keep reminding me of, was, when I was talking about the extension until July, about the universal system, for all prosumers, and we only change it as part of the umbrella and grant programmes that implement the units of local government. And that is, I ask you, that those who sign contracts, natural persons who sign contracts with the municipality by the end of March this year, may join the electricity system under the conditions of waste until the end of December 2023, but the basic principle of the net-billing system enters into force and will generally apply from 1 April of this year. [[It could have been since January 1, 2024.]] [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] He can't. I've been explaining to the High House that... [[Don't argue with the room, Minister.]] I have explained to the High House that the Market Directive obliges us as a Member State of the European Union to implement this. Ladies and gentlemen, we should have introduced this from the end of December... from 1 January 2021, not from the Senator's suggestion. From 2024. Please refer to the Market Directive on the distribution fee of the variable. Today prosumers do not bear it, and they should bear it, just like all electricity consumers in Poland. [[Graceful government.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u74	Thank you. Senator Gawłowski volunteered. In what mode? [[Corrections.]] Corrigendum. Here you go, three minutes. [[The voice from the room: What a disgrace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like this to be made clear that a high civil servant comes to the Senate and insults the senators. He's a clerk. He has no right to do that. And I would like the Senate Marshal to address his superior, the Moscow Minister, with information about the scandalous behaviour of the Minister. This is unacceptable. That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, I'll say it again. The group covered by the umbrella and grant scheme will benefit from the discharge system and will not be in the net-billing system, which means that by the end of 2023 it will be in the old system, including until 1 April 2022. Thirdly, these installations which you praised were carried out on the basis of permits issued during the Civil Platform, because no other installations were implemented after 2016. These are all the changes in plans, these are Goodbye, Minister. All those arrangements. They were all carried out by 2015, 2016 and then they were frozen. Energy prices were so low that it was simply not profitable for investors to build wind farms. They started in 2020 due to high energy prices. And so it happened with photovoltaics. In 2015 the efficiency of photovoltaic equipment I don't know if everyone understands what efficiency means, but I don't want to do it anymore, because I'm not a lecturer. The average price of the sampled Union , today it is more than 20.23%. That's what makes it worthwhile. But in fact, the government's energy policy has led to the fact that today the price of energy for citizens is so high that it simply pays to have an installation at home. But the government, fighting it, decided to make things worse. And that's the answer to what we just heard from the minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 623, and the report of the committee In the forms Nos 623 A and 623 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Health Committee on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public health services and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 27 January 2022. On 28 January 2022, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee, which adopted a draft resolution on the Law at its meeting on 7 February 2022. This resolution introduced the amendment, substantive and legislative amendments, presented at the meeting of the Committee on Health. Both were adopted unanimously, including with the support of the Ministry of Health. The High Izbo, which we have before us, the amendment of the Act, is expected by the environment because it primarily extends the current lists of healthcare providers eligible for the basic system of hospital care provision, while at the same time determining that the new list of these healthcare providers will start to apply from January 2023. The Act also has a second objective, namely to extend the period of application for medical studies by students by the second semester of the academic year 2021/2022, i.e. by the end of this academic year, while maintaining the possibility to finance fees paid by students for educational services for the period of 2 semesters of the academic year by credit. Both changes are absolutely expected and have been welcomed by both healthcare providers and students. However, during the meeting there was a discussion, for example, because we are dealing with a parliamentary project. Once again, amendments to the law that are predictable As it was known that no amendment to the Hospital Network Act would be introduced by the end of 2021, this task had to be undertaken already in the autumn in order to create a government project amending the regulations, introducing the following changes... Nevertheless, it is a good thing that although this is a parliamentary project, although of course it was not consulted, the discussion at the Health Committee was also very substantive and in-depth. We've been looking at the records, the changes in the calculation algorithm. Honourable High Izbo, during the discussion at the Health Committee, it was also noted that the principle of good legislation had been violated at the time of the procedure in the Sejm. I have the impression that the Senate has already become accustomed to the fact that most of the parliamentary projects that come to us, unfortunately, are also not in line with good legislation and that there is always a rule that is broken. In this case, doubts are about the validity and regularity of 3 readings, which can also be considered a violation of the Constitution. Nevertheless, we have undertaken to conduct a very thorough analysis of the project presented. These two amendments, which were made by the senators, were therefore accepted. The Ministry of Health admitted that it was true that we were on our side. This clarification of certain deadlines is important. During the committee meeting there were also slightly broader questions concerning not only the financing of a flat-rate hospital network, but also for example. services which are non-flat-rate, non-flat-rate benefits. A clear declaration by the Minister of Health has been made that these benefits are not covered by this law. It was also asked about the valuation of benefits because, as we know, some health benefits are highly underestimated. Therefore, several times at the meeting of the Health Commission, both in terms of funding and in terms of contracts as always, questions have been asked about the valuation of health benefits in the context of emerging inflation, which significantly worsens the condition of hospitals due to the costs incurred. The next question that was asked at the Health Committee is the question about the quality of health services. On this issue, none of the senators have any doubt that quality should be rewarded. And we have high expectations with a law that is supposed to appear in the coming days, i.e. with the Quality Act. As part of the discussion on this subject, this question was also asked to the Minister, who confirmed that the project has already been completed and that it will be sent to the Committee on Health in the near future, which I think the whole environment is waiting for. Another issue raised the most controversy. The most important questions were the article. 4, in which this provision was introduced, and it is known that, as any episode, it can be defined for an unpredictable period. Therefore, we had doubts as to whether the record in this article was accurate and whether the objective that was set would be achieved. This provision concerns the question of fixing lump sums and, above all, figures on the amount and type of benefits, but there is no clear period until this provision is to apply. This is to be determined by the regulation introduced in respect of this Article. We have not seen this draft regulation, because if it were a government submission, then we could also read the draft regulation. There's no such regulation here. That is why we have asked, even several times, whether such a provision in the article. 4 will be beneficial to healthcare providers and there is no concern that at some point in the regulation there will suddenly be another type of provision which could somehow distort this article and not provide a guarantee of good presentation, a good idea for the healthcare providers themselves. The Minister has assured us that this article will certainly be implemented in such a way that there will suddenly be no provisions that could make it worse or hinder the continuation of the contract with the National Health Fund and which could be detrimental to healthcare providers. Finally, the Health Commission, in agreement with these decisions, with full understanding Because, as I said at the beginning, it is a law that improves the situation of providers, solves certain issues related to contracting, as well as scholarships for students, and adopted this law together with 2 amendments, which, as I said, were accepted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u78	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee was sitting today. During the committee's deliberations, we dealt mainly with the provision concerning the extension of the period of application for medical studies by students for the second semester of the 2021 academic year/ 22, i.e. by the end of this academic year, while maintaining the possibility to finance fees paid by students for educational services for the period of 2 semesters of the academic year 2021/2022. During the committee's deliberations, the discussion was actually based on the fact that the senators agreed to accept the same amendments that were accepted by the Health Committee. The same amendments were therefore adopted unanimously. At the same time, the same constitutional comments were made on irregularities resulting from the failure to comply with the requirements of the 3 readings process, but there were the same arguments as during the proceedings of the Health Committee. To sum up, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport requests that the law be adopted together with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see any such questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Ms Violetta Porowska was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There is no Member. Would Minister Bromber, a representative of the government, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Yes.]] Politely, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank both the chairmen of the committee and the senators of the rapporteurs for their substantive approach to the subject during the committee meeting, as well as for the substantive presentation of the bill during today's sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u82	Thank you. But just a moment longer, Minister, because there may be questions for you. They can't last more than a minute. Are there any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Ryszard Świlski, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Grzegorz Czelej and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their statements in writing to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... [[Voice from the room:... Complicated amendments...]] Have the amendments been tabled? Who made it? Find out what's going on. Who made the corrections? Tell me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me... One minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's a three-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 57 to 14 minutes 00]] The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. The text of the Act is contained in print No 624 and the report is published in print No 624 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Last week, at a joint meeting, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. I will present 3 topics, because there are 3 topics in the bill submitted. The first is the question of reducing the fossil tax. Deputy Minister Maciej Małecki, representing the Ministry of State Assets, made an argument regarding the reduction of this tax. This is the issue of copper prices and the need for investment. The second topic concerns the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the law implementing Poland's Loads caused that the income of the rehabilitation fund in establishments employing people with disabilities and in professional activation plants... These funds are created on the basis of income tax. The non-payment of income tax on persons with disabilities employed in these establishments causes 80% loss of this fund. Therefore, the Ministry's proposal to allow these establishments to apply to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for a subsidy of 4% the lowest salary per disabled person. In total, it was estimated that this should not exceed 150 million. And this way of supplying individual rehabilitation funds with a state rehabilitation fund would last 10 years. And the third point is that, as Minister Sarnowski said... Oh, let me just tell you about the statistics. All matters relating to social policy were presented by Deputy Minister Stanisław Szwed, and issues related to personal income tax cases were presented by Mr Jan Sarnowski, Deputy Minister of Finance. [[Voice from the room: Then.]] Please? [[The voice from the hall: It was then.]] Well, I'm reporting what happened at the committee meeting. What concerns income tax is the so-called tax. PIT-2. Namely, the government in the regulation introduced the issue of PIT-2, i.e. the possibility for the taxpayer to submit PIT-2 to the employer throughout the year, in short. And at the time of the deposit, the employer, i.e. the one who pays taxes on behalf of the taxpayer, is obliged to take into account this PIT, i.e., if I remember correctly, perhaps PLN 415 tax credit resulting from the 30 thousandth tax-free amount. Then you presented your observations on the bill to the patron speaking on behalf of the Legal Office. I'm just gonna talk about it a little bit, 'cause you have all that opinion in the materials. Let me just say that the constitutional objections to this law are contained in 4 points. That's what I'm talking about. That's the first point. The implemented solutions are seasonal, scheduled for a limited period of operation. In accordance with the principle of legal security and legal certainty This is confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The legal standard must be established for a longer period of operation. You shouldn't, you shouldn't introduce it in such a short time and for such a short time. The second reservation concerns advances. Namely, the taxpayer pays the advance and... You can bloom it like that. That's your patron's opinion. That the advance payments will not be settled until the following year, which causes the taxpayer to be uncertain as to whether these advances are sufficient to cover all income tax accrued in 2022. The third point is that while enjoying this relief... The point is that the relief itself and its accounting method are defined in the tax year in question. Please note that it is already February, it will be March in a moment, and taxpayers are still not sure about the method of accounting for income tax, because they consider that the competent authority, which can make such changes, is the legislator, i.e. the Sejm and the Senate, not the minister issuing the regulation. And one last remark. Namely, this solution causes unequal treatment of taxpayers themselves. These four remarks have been made by your patron. The committee then held a discussion. I can say that the discussion was primarily about trying to explain that this is my feeling. After these changes, whether the taxpayer will be clear on how to pay the tax, on how it will be settled and whether the person clearing it, i.e. the accountant or the accountant, will be clear on how to do so. I personally state I don't know what the other members of the committee felt. We did not get such a clear answer that everything is now black and white as regards the issue of taxes. The Commission has proposed eight amendments that you have prepared for us. The members of the committee, mainly from the Civic Coalition, have tabled these amendments as their own. These are mainly editorial amendments that improve the whole tax system, the tax patterns, the deadlines. I just want to say that this was the eight amendments that were supported, and it can be said, by seven members of the committee with five votes against. The whole of the bill was also adopted by the committee. There were nine votes in favour, three senators holding back. Marshal, thank you for listening to the report. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Just hold on one more second. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the light of your report on a matter as important as taxes... We know that law at all, especially financial, fiscal, should be stable, and rather in the long term. It's supposed to be a right for years, not months. Could you express your view, your assessment of how we should treat the fact that after a few weeks of this law, we must accept the proposals that you have put forward? A few weeks later, we know that more than 850 amendments have been made to tax laws. And we already know today that there will be next dozens Or hundreds of amendments. Should this be the law in Poland, especially tax law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u86	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u87	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Mr Senator, I quoted here the Court's ruling, which supposedly stated in 2012 that what concerns tax matters should be particularly protected in terms of stability. This is not about not making changes, it's about mode, time, way, etc., etc. I'll add too. It was in the opinion of your patron, I didn't say it, but this opinion you have, I'll just mark it. The fact that the designers, the government, did not fully consult with any social factors, claiming that this had to be done quickly. Therefore, I absolutely disagree on the mode, time and idea of solving this problem. Senator Magdalena Kochan asked how teachers' salaries should be understood. Anyway? I have to say that I tried to say that, in a volatile way, to understand what was being said at the committee meeting, but I have to make it clear that if I was an accountant, I wouldn't understand exactly how to count it. Well, that shouldn't be in the state of law. Well, it's almost March... And I agree with the thesis in this question that tax law, every law, but especially tax law... This is an academic example, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, of how we should not create laws, tax laws. I'll just remind you that from this tribune I've been saying, and many senators have said that, we've made such a request to withdraw from this chaos in 2022, which is... Well, there's almost 900 amendments, and we're hearing there's gonna be another one. And how do you talk? What are you talking about? With people who charge... about how to settle taxes, but also pay, well, it turns out it's a clean free American. So... There was a time when I would allow such a digression, such a saying of the Czech film nobody knows anything. Now, as you want to know how to pay and how to settle taxes, see Polish Load. And this is kind of a summary of what this whole Polish Load is carrying.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u88	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question about fossils, not taxes. Please tell me whether there has been a discussion about whether it is an incidental reduction in this tax and it concerns a monopoly on the Polish market, or if in a year's time, for example. The price of copper won't fall... So, is there gonna be another Seym law? Does the law regulate the prices incidentally, or is it such a one-off case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Senator, I'm in session. I didn't report so accurately anymore, because there's protocol, so I can read exactly 2 questions to the Minister. Actually, three ministers, and here, in this area, exactly two. I asked the question: who was the applicant for this project, tax reduction? It looked like this. Mr. Deputy Minister of State Assets said that he welcomes the Ministry of Finance's initiative to reduce taxes, because any money involved in investing at falling copper prices is very good. And here I asked who the applicant was, I asked Minister Sarnowski. Well, it was a surprise, and there was no answer. So that there's actually no author, no one knows who put it together, it's important that the government did. And when it comes to the answer to the second part, should it be... Please note, this is the conclusion: well, you have to reduce I'm gonna say this in the debate, so I'm not gonna tell you exactly what I'm gonna say right now. You've got to lower it for some reason. And this is argued, among other things. copper prices. I would like to inform you that since the first quarter of 2020, copper prices have increased from almost 6 000 per tonne to 11 000. Well, with this government, Mr. Senator, yes, sir. 27 is smaller than unity, growth is reduced, and chaos is good order. So the fuss and the good order, well... it's such a thing... Therefore, in my opinion, this is an uproar of certain agreements. That's what I suspect. That I will talk about in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u93	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask... Precedens is of course not part of the system of Polish law, but it is always possible to rely on precedents, try also to use precedents in the field of law. In my opinion, especially those that are created by power, the government, because it is authority. So I would like to ask: if, in this case, given the same example, if, in some other industries, areas, let alone a specific case of a particular company, the prices of products or raw materials will fall, will it be possible to expect a legislative initiative to reduce taxes for this company, industry or sector in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, in Poland there is no precedent law, but good practices should be mimicked. I therefore urge all those who operate in various industries of the mining industry: how the price of the extracted raw material will increase, because that was the case here, it is necessary to ask the government to reduce taxes, because you need to have more money to invest. The second sentence is true, the first sentence is completely false, and I don't think you should take the example. A strategic approach should be pursued. And if one of the elements about which Polish economists write about fighting inflation is lowering among others. the prices of raw materials, this should be done in a thoughtful manner, in terms of the economy as a whole, and especially in the case of those which affect inflation. And I want to say that probably the price of copper has an impact on the economy and inflation, but there are other raw materials, materials that have a much more impact. That's why I hope, Mr. Senator. - I'm in the middle of something. That industry, listening to the good practice of the government: who performs, gets... And it better be. I suspect so, that's my comment. signatured by several Members of the Law and Justice. Then there will be a chance that the price of bread in Poland will fall because the price of flour will fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u96	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Arthur Sobonia. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: May I please, Mrs. Marshal?]] However, we invite you here, to the podium, because there are some senators in the courtroom, and from there it doesn't sound like the speaker. Please, Minister, come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u97	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I asked you to answer from the place, because it is no secret to you that I have joined the work on this project at this legislative stage... This is a project, which, to a large extent, stems from the expectations of the public and all those who have raised doubts about the fact that a regulation based on tax legislation, a regulation of 7 January, should not interfere so much with legislation. Therefore, in order to remove these doubts, of course in the interests of legal certainty and stability of tax systems, that this certainty is guaranteed by law, we are implementing these 2 solutions from the regulation directly into the law. These 2 solutions obviously concern PIT-2, i.e. the method of collecting the monthly tax advances and provide for the possibility for taxable persons to submit a PIT-2 declaration at any point in the tax year. The current provision provided for the submission of PIT-2 before the first payment in the tax year. It is also clarified that the taxable person may submit PIT-2 to the employer where the taxable person resigns from the deduction of 1/12 of the amount reducing the tax by the pension authorities when the benefits are paid. In short, it is for the benefit of working pensioners or pensioners. I think these changes of doubt from the senators will wake up They shouldn't. This does not, of course, mean that the pre-financing system, which has been created on the basis of these provisions, is ideal. He will certainly require our work, analyses, so as to choose the optimal solution. In fact, by simplifying, the point is that at the end of the day, i.e. after the annual account, the employee who pays the income tax advances will get as close as possible to the amount of the actual tax that he has to pay. The point is that there is no radical underpayment or overpayment, because these are phenomena that, from the point of view of the economy and from the point of view of the individual tax payers, are undesirable phenomena. In addition, the project contains social elements that I will ask Minister Widwik, Minister of the Family, to explain, if there are any questions. They concern sheltered workplaces and PFRON. I will add that there is also a question of copper tax, as it is commonly called. This applies to those who are charged with this tax. From the point of view of the state budget it is so neutral that... Well, at higher global prices of this raw material tax revenue will, of course, be higher, because this is the construction of this tax. So that from a budget point of view... by force, we have a lower income here on the assumption that this tax will be reduced. 726 million. But at high prices, medium prices or, let's say, stable current raw material prices, we predict that, globally, the overall revenue of the state will reach the ceiling that we have set in the Budget Act for the current financial year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u98	Thank you very much. Wait a second, Minister... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u99	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the question is which, according to you, is the amendment of the Polish Government, which is this new tax system. You just said that your work and analysis are in front of you. Do you not share my view that work and analysis and calculations should take place in the government before the new legislation is implemented and not after it has been implemented? And second question. Do you think that the state's income is sufficient and we don't need all of us, taxpayers, a fair, normal tax system for those who are mining copper today? Because the increase in the prices of this product does not entitle this state company, whose activities affect the revenue of the state budget, i.e. all of us... Leaving it in this form, I think, is dwarf and stupid. I'm sorry. It's unfair to everyone else. Do you share my view, or do you think this is the right solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The statistical information on the amendment is: 4. This is the fourth amendment. However, this is an answer that, as I understand it, meets the senator's expectations for statistics, but I also understand that this is not exactly the intention of the question. I'm sure the point is whether this is the last amendment we're going to propose. I am quite clear that we would like to propose a package of changes concerning PIT tax first, and CIT first to the Council of Ministers, and then, of course, to the Sejm and the High Senate, so that these solutions that we have introduced have the advantages of a stable tax system, a tax system in which, if we make changes during the tax year, they benefit the taxpayer, the tax system that will be returned just from a meeting of the Social Dialogue Council, which has been consulted with employers and trade unions. These solutions that we are showing today are solutions that are the voice of those who are interested. I will urge your senators to accept an amendment on the pension differences consulted with the accountants and with all those who do so, so as to give entrepreneurs the chance not to have this concern about the amount of their health contributions before 20 March. But we certainly want this system that we are building to be the one that meets the expectations of the entire market, everyone interested. Of course, there will be a good time to implement these solutions. In a situation where it is such a big, giant change, subsequent amendments are not something that we are somehow overly proud of, but it is something in some sense understandable, I hope for the senators, too, because tax issues in Poland are complicated and so big changes require improvement, so that these adjustments which are needed and which will stabilise the situation of taxpayers will also be taken away by the States. The Council of Ministers, and later the Sejm and the Senate, will be presented in a thorough, well-prepared and in a social dialogue. As far as income is concerned, I already talked about it by answering the first question. We take the view that this is neutral from the point of view of the total revenue generated from this.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u103	Thank you very much. I have two questions, so maybe now the first one, then the second one, so that the rules will be met. First of all, Minister, I would like to refer to this phrase of yours, and I quote from my head that this is understandable to the senators. I understand that it is to be understood to us that in practically a dozen days you have passed a law that is passed in the world in a few years as a result of a process of deep, authentic, reliable, solid and fair public consultation, which in this case was practically not, and that hundreds of amendments to it appear within 5 weeks or 6 weeks of the entry into force of the law. Did I understand correctly that we should move on to the agenda, to consider that it's okay that everything is okay that you didn't have to do the annual vacathio legis as we brought in? [[Timer signal]] That you didn't need a public consultation? Are we supposed to understand it so that we don't have to suspend it right now? If you don't repeal it, just suspend it. This law, so as not to correct it hundreds of times and calmly, in a public consultation with social partners, but also with partners in parliament, in the Seym and in the Senate, to create a whole new one? Because repairing this... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Is that what we're supposed to mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u104	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u105	Mr. Senator, I'm going to try to answer this question completely, because I really want to convince you of this amendment that I was talking about. I'm doing this on behalf of entrepreneurs. Then I'll answer very openly. You know that in the case of tax changes, it is impossible to suspend them, disable them, stop them. These are, of course, public statements. I understand the essence of things. But if we both agree that through correction, suspension, change, repair, improvement, whatever, we understand that during the tax year changes in the laws that are in favour of taxpayers are entering into force... If anyone wants to go back to the system from 2021 in such a simple, magical way... This is not in line with Polish law, and we must therefore propose a package of changes that will benefit workers, which will solve issues that arise in recent weeks and which will actually arise in social dialogue, because after meetings with the social side I have information about the deficit of this dialogue. The Polish Government was, of course, consulted, for 5 weeks, with social partners. Of course, I realize that, Senator, and I do not need to encourage you to understand that, because you also understand how complicated matters we are changing today and how complicated this tax system in Poland was in 2021. In 2022, after the changes... They, of course, also have their repercussions in different areas of the tax system, because the situation of different taxpayers varies, there are different tax wedges and different situations related to social security contributions or income costs, different situations in the case of a confluence of different income. So I don't have to explain to you that we are moving within a very sensitive, very complicated and one that really requires responsible decisions. I have the impression that the direction which was adopted in the Polish Łada is the direction which is accepted, i.e. This is the direction in which we take care of these sensitive issues, such as health, which introduces greater progression, greater justice, which supports the weakest to a greater extent. Of course, to say about the Polish tax system, that we are all proud of it, it is probably still some work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u106	Thank you very much. I have a question, Minister. You said so nicely at the end that it's so complicated, so sensitive. And it took you five weeks. I have such a simple question. Why didn't you consult for more than five weeks if it's so complicated? It is. And why have you made the tax system even more complicated, and yet in such a way that no one in society knows how to apply it? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I've been working at the Ministry of Finance for weeks. I've learned not to use such categorical terms as "no one" or "anyone" because in the tax system categories as "all" are difficult to grasp. Different situations vary from one taxpayer to another. Well, according to the legislative art, this project has, of course, been consulted. I have admitted, Mrs Marshal, and I can say this once again, that I believe that we have a social dialogue deficit, as our social partners have said. That is why I consider this to be extremely important in the legislative process, and I have emphasised that. These consultations were prolonged during this legislative process, but it was probably still not optimal. I would like this to be made quite clear here that when it comes to all the changes that we want to make, I would like them to be accepted in social dialogue. I am aware that sometimes we have conflicting interests and conflicting expectations of the tax system, but I think there are issues that are more than that, and they, in particular the stability of the tax system, are a dominant value here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u108	I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Knowing that the Minister is briefly involved in this area, I would like to ask you a few general questions, not to go into details, because then there will be some problem of written response, and that is not the most important issue. Minister, tell me about what concerns your position or this law in its entirety. Well, by taking out some of the elements you said about a policy related to a reduction... or by raising the tax-free amount, and a few other elements can't be done in such a way that it's repealed or introduced in two years' time, and we're discussing, and only some elements are introduced? That would be less harmful. That's one thing. And second question, about what you said. Will everyone today, in all institutions, take an example of education, already know how to count on it, just as you said At the end, the tax paid was more or less at the level of the tax due?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u110	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u111	That's right. Of course, such a general question cannot be answered precisely. When asked if it could be done like this Theoretically, because there are no such plans, but theoretically That we leave e.g. the increased amount of free and higher threshold at the second tax rate, and we resign e.g. With the relief of the middle class... That's how I understand it, 'cause I understand we're gonna pull something back, right? I am the one who informs you that there will certainly be taxpayers who will lose on this solution. On macro-economic models, on models of simulations for individual groups of taxpayers, of course I am able to show the High Senate how these will be exemplary situations. Thus, by moving within what I stress that all the changes should be in favour of taxpayers, I reply that bringing about this type of theoretical situation in which these changes do not apply in 2022, and taxpayers can already benefit from them, because they have entered into force since 1 January, is impossible because there are taxpayers who, if we took away some of the solutions they were given, would lose on the tax system, even though such a high amount of freedom, even despite such a system of progression and such a level of tax thresholds. That's one thing. Secondly, there is also a question of changes related to the health contribution, which is part of the construction of the budget and health expenditure. I don't really need to develop that here either. And thirdly, I think, Mr. Senator, that we are able to do this better than the proposal you have made here. We will certainly come to the Senate with the right proposal. Will everyone be able to count properly if this regulation is implemented in the bill? Every week... We as National Tax Administration call all taxpayers. The point is to take care of them to explain to them, to explain to them, to support them... [[Voice from the hall: No one supports me.]] Entrepreneur's taxpayers. [[Voice from the room: A!]] Let me finish. And it's not the smallest entrepreneurs, I'll be honest with you right away, it's the medium and bigger ones. How long have they been... [[Voice from the room: Mr...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Andrzej.]] I don't know what this is about, Senator. [[We had Mr. Andrzej on one show...]] Okay. Okay. Perhaps Mr. Andrzej too. We're all trying. Those who have over 100 employees, I'm sure we've got everyone on the phone. They were in 90% about two weeks ago. Ready. All entities that are subject to local government, public authorities, etc. are prepared. In some places, there is still a question of not implementing IT and pay systems, i.e. purely IT solutions, so that accounting can just count it. So I feel like we've dealt with this together.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about copper. This issue has already been raised here, but in principle I would ask the Minister to say something and say what is justified is a reduction in the scale or the dimension of the tax. And second question. If he was actually too high, please remind the High House when this tax was increased. A while ago, I remember the tax was increased when it came to copper. Does the Minister have any information on this? If not, I will, of course, ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u115	Thank you very much. I can tell you this: the tax receipts you've been talking about have exceeded the budget plans in recent years. They went beyond what they were supposed to be in connection with copper prices. The fact that we react flexibly, more or less, is the result of what you agreed with here. This strengthens the investment opportunities of the company, which we regard as global, because KGHM is our global champion. According to my best knowledge, Mr. Senator, there was no raise. In 2018, there was a reduction in this tax, so it's not as bizarre as it is. today in the Senate presented. [[But it is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u116	Thank you very much. Senator Mark Plura, please. [[I'd like to ask.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u117	Minister, this tax was lifted. Well, in that case, in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Good. Of course, I'm...]] I asked when he was raised, not when he had been reduced before. So I'd ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u118	Yeah, yeah. I'll answer in writing, Senator. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Mark Plura's question, please. It's remote, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My question concerns an occupational rehabilitation fund at sheltered workplaces. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, could you get closer to the microphone or get closer to the microphone so you can hear more?]] I'll try. Is it better now? [[Voice from the room: Better.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: That's better.]] Thank you kindly. I'll say it again. My question concerns an occupational rehabilitation fund at sheltered workplaces. If I remember correctly the previous provisions, it was calculated as a tax deduction on the earnings of all employees of the protected work establishment. According to the current formula, support for such funds will be charged on the salary of only disabled workers. I would like to know what a positive aspect is behind this change and if this reduces the resources of these plant funds, from which drugs are paid, rehabilitation, training and job creation for people with disabilities. I also have this question: does this solution also apply to professional establishments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u121	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Excuse me, here... I would like to ask you here... so we agreed with the marshal that one of us would ask Minister Widowik. I'm the one who would have asked Minister Widecki.]] Yes. I would very much ask that Minister Widzik, please... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Yes, from the spot.]] Only where the microphone is. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Minister, it will be more comfortable sitting down.]] Minister, you can sit down, only the microphone needs to be taken away. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Minister wants to come to the stand.]] Good. [[Voice from the hall: Let the speaker say.]] If the Minister wants it, please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u122	Dear Marshal! High Senate! In every situation, as far as I can, I have an influence on senator consciousness as well as on the possibilities of people with disabilities, which is why I wanted to speak from this place, like everyone else. To answer the question that the senator wanted to ask, first of all, I must say that the solution that we have proposed is a highly assessed solution by employers themselves. Yesterday I spoke with the president of one of the largest employers' organisations employing disabled people and what we proposed was very well adopted. Why this amount and why only from the salary of people with disabilities? When we were talking about tax solutions... And this solution still exists. Each entrepreneur can choose one of the two options: or use a new solution, or 4% counted from disabled workers and paid from the state rehabilitation fund, or used the old solution. It turns out that about half of the companies will stay with the old solution, because if employees earn high salaries, this solution is still more beneficial. Please bear in mind that we supply the company's activity fund and ZFRON with the funds of the state rehabilitation fund. And it is not true, as some believe, especially employers from the protected market, that the state rehabilitation fund was created to give money paid by some employers to other employers. This is a fund that is responsible for financing the entire area of occupational rehabilitation and social rehabilitation. I use the language of the applicable legislation, which no longer fully adheres to the language derived from international law, e.g. the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In other words, this fund is responsible for equalising the opportunities of all people with disabilities. We see no reason to take funds for all the disabled and redirect them only to help those... Of course, it's not a small group, it's 100,000 people, but from the point of view of those 3 million citizens who want to benefit from it. The measures are still not enough. This decision seems to be the most rational one. There are no other financing options than PFRON's funding. If I may, Mrs. Marshal, I will say something that should fall in the first part, in the speech of Minister Sobonia. Well, we shared the subject. It is a question of the amendments which the Senate committee recommends in relation to the Law on Rehabilitation. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] So you're okay with this? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There you go, Minister.]] Thank you very much. The State recommends that amendments be introduced which would bring these solutions into the Regulation. This concerns in particular the model of the proposal that employers are supposed to use when applying to PFRON for the measures referred to earlier. The Senate Legislative Office believes that this action we have proposed, namely the publication of a model for this request in the Public Information Bulletin, is not lawful. I will appeal to what two senators have said here about the importance of good practice. Of course, we do not have a precedent law, but there are enough functioning solutions for which models of different documents are published in the Public Information Bulletin. I'll just say a few of them. Art. 6ca Act on Rehabilitation talks about patterns of identity of people with disabilities, and they are published in the newsletter. Then there's Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 20 Law on the Charter of the Large Family on the Model Application for the Charter of the Large Family It's the same here. Next: Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5d Family Benefits Act. There are a few more examples, but I will not prolong them. This, of course, is not a matter of life and death; no one will crush copies of this, although I would like to point out that the transfer to the regulation will greatly prolong the process of mobilising these funds. I would like the senators to take this into account in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. Are you going to answer any more questions, or are you going to answer Minister Soboń? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: A, that depends on what questions will be.]] Okay, well, I'm gonna need you to stay a little longer. Let's see what the questions are. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[Minister Sobonia.]] Minister, perhaps it would be better if Minister Wdezik stayed here in the front row. It'll be easier this way. There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about copper tax and, let's call it silver. KGHM will benefit from this. Last we heard, KGHM was gonna get into a big block business... I mean, small modular blocks, but it's gonna be a big deal with one of the American companies. Will the money saved on taxes also be for this? This issue is also beneficial for the Polish state in general and not only for the company itself. And second question, more specific. Well, there are new stakes in these two episodes. That's where the ratio changes from 0.85 to 0.6. But there's still a maximum tax rate in the rules that Episcopal regulations are supposed to replace. In the case of copper 16 thousand PLN for 1 t, in the case of silver 2 thousand 100 PLN for 1 kg. Well, if we didn't keep these maximum rates in the occasional rules, it might happen that instead of improving, we're going to make the company's situation worse, because we're just above a certain maximum company based on old rules wouldn't pay, and on the basis of the episode rules she's going to have to pay at sufficiently high prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u125	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u126	As far as both questions are concerned, I'll let the senator answer in writing. I can only say with regard to the second question, that in this case the formula for calculating the tax is changing and not the rates themselves, and therefore the maximum prices will not be at stake in our view. As for the first question, I am, of course, confirming this information, which is publicly available, that KGHM also intends to invest in nuclear energy and thus build its potential in this area. But I will ask the Ministry of State Assets to respond to the company's investment plans and to the extent that these measures can serve the development of KGHM through this legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u127	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, an additional question... It's just that we need to know what we're responding to... which is what the Minister will answer. In the case of the new and old formula, the change is small, because there is only a change in the coefficient, but with the old method of calculating the tax there is a ceiling above which the tax is not charged. This is the price cap of this tax in gold. And with the new calculation of that ceiling, there isn't. So it could be that the lower rates would exceed this ceiling from the old formula and the effect would be that they would be calculated. There will be no maximum threshold. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Okay, good. We'll tell you about it, of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u128	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. First of all, the Minister was kind to use such a phrase that we are all proud of the changes that the government has made... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: No, no. I wish I could.]] I'm definitely getting out of this group. I'm really not proud. Moreover, I am ashamed that the Polish government could not properly prepare changes to the tax system in Poland in social dialogue. And since the Minister announces further changes and amendments, as we have heard, I have a question: do you consider in these amendments the possibility, in common with the child, of taxing by a single parent? Most often by the mother in the case of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u130	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u131	I said... I think I said I'd like us all to They were proud. And as for these solutions, I can say that the question of the least-situated people who care for a child, which is the question of this supplement of PLN 1 000 500... I know that this is not exactly the question. We will solve it in such a way that even those who have a low level of tax can receive this benefit, e.g. the possibility of taking into account the amount of contributions. We will do so so that everyone can simply receive this witness. But we're considering different scenarios related to a group of lonely babysitters, including the one the senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u133	Thank you very much. I may no longer refer, Minister, to all these speeches or to some of the speeches in which you praised or spoke about the irreversibility of very bad or scandalously bad solutions adopted by you. Let's at least give it a rest in this part of the debate. But in response to this country's initiative, now on PIT-2, which is related to the possibility of changing it not only once, at the beginning of the year, but also during the year, etc., I would like to ask if you also provide for other such or even identical facilitations. What I'm trying to say is that the Minister certainly knows that. Four days from now... because which one is it today? Sixteen. In four days, the deadline for entrepreneurs to decide whether to choose a form of taxation, whether to be on a line or on a roar, or on a full book, etc. And most of them... Worse still, their advisors and accountants are completely unable to... [[Timer signal]] ... advise them whether the majority of them, which form they are to choose, because these changes have led to such chaos, such uncertainty and such ignorance that no one wants to take responsibility and resolve. As the Minister knows, this decision is multi-fold... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, the question I would ask you very much.]] ...and it's been in force all year. Do you plan to make changes similar to those related to PIT-2 so that the entrepreneur can change this decision within a year when he is sure what form is most beneficial to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u134	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u135	Thank you very much. Well, we're thinking about it, of course. I would like to say, however, that we are dealing, Mr. Senator. And you know it, too. With a slightly different situation than that in 2021. Another is due to the income tax and the premium system, namely the close link between them. That is, if we decided today to extend this deadline, in practice this would mean the need to correct health contributions from 1 January to an indefinite period, that is to say, to the period to which we would extend it. When it comes to whether this is a solution that is a levelling solution or a deepening something that you call confusion or chaos here, I cannot clearly answer. As the senator noted, this is not an identical situation, here we would have to deal with a necessity that would probably be incomprehensible to some entrepreneurs and would also arouse unnecessary emotions. In addition, the vast majority of entrepreneurs have been keeping their books under the tax system they intend to implement since the beginning of the year. Well, there's probably a group of entrepreneurs who haven't made a final decision yet. Now the answer to the question is whether we can do it again by regulation. Again, in the interests of legal stability, it would probably be better if it were a legal solution. And as you rightly pointed out, the deadline is February 20th, so... Well, there's a suggestion from tax advisors and a lot of other people, and there's a discussion going on here. I don't underestimate her. Perhaps we will propose a solution during the year, but I am paying attention to some consequences in terms of legal stability, regulation versus law, and yet there is a need to take into account the adjustment of health contributions, because it is closely linked to PIT today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u136	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion we are having here today, of course, is to some extent a discussion about the law, which is the subject of this item of our discussions today, but in fact it is a discussion about the Polish Lad as a whole. And since we're discussing Polish Lad as a whole, we have to tell ourselves that this program has two original sins. Not one, but two original sins. The first original sin of this whole change perfectly described PiS nominated for the post of spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises was a Member of Law and Justice, Mr Adam Abramowicz, who, moreover, is so independent that he has repeatedly reviewed the various economic ideas of this government. And he said, "This program promotes those who do not work at the expense of the workers," he says to those who do business, go to work, and the person who is on the job tells you to raise your qualifications to earn more, because we're gonna take it away from you anyway." An appropriate quote from Minister Abramowicz's statement can be found on the Internet. And that is the fundamental problem that the rulers today believe that money comes from redistribution. Well, that's not how money comes from work. And how we distribute them is a matter of separate discussion. We cannot put people in a position where they simply don't pay their jobs, pay their taxes, run away from taxes, and then get into trouble. And this is the first original sin. And the second sin of this program is that you have introduced a false tax change. Besides, it's the biggest tax change in 30 years, and no matter what we think about its essence, you've done it on your knees. The bill, which has Polish Load to fix and which we are discussing here today, is also done on the knee. Who's responsible for this? I'm going to back up the quote again, this time from the Senator of Law and Justice, who's doing everything he can to get him kicked out of the club, but somehow there's some kind of imposibilism in Law and Justice to get Senator Jackowski out of this club. You promise, you promise, but there's nothing out of it. I am moved by the fact that President Kaczyński has led to such a form of imposibility in the ranks of Law and Justice. Well, Senator Jackowski in response to the question of who is responsible for Poland, said this: Mr Morawiecki, he was the face of this program; Mr Kościński is only the scapegoat of this whole situation. And that needs to be made very clear. Now, back to the previous thread, here's what I'm gonna say. In fact, as far as this bill is concerned, also written on the knee... Senator Magdalena Kochan described such a case when the tax advisor called the Ministry and tried to figure out how to interpret some rules. After a long conversation, the official of the Ministry of Finance finally said: please contact the tax advisor. He didn't know he was just talking to a tax advisor with years of experience he doesn't know how to deal with the rules. In fact, we should vote against this law, because it does not explain anything, and to those who want to deal with the Polish Ład, the situation, so to speak, is even more obscuring. But because the environment that we represent with Senator Plura is waiting for a solution regarding the company's rehabilitation fund and the company's activity fund, and I would even say... I agree with the Minister here. I have heard more voices in favour of this solution, which the Minister presented here, than the voices which said that it was not a question of advances paid out from all employees, including those who were full-time. Yes, I've heard a voice like that, but I've heard more voices like this: maybe it's not exactly what we're hoping for, but we're asking you to vote on this element without amendment. And only for this reason, voting in favour of amendments that have been tabled to other parts of the bill... Of course, the entire law is so designed that it refers as one piece of legislation to many areas, areas of economic life. Because the environment is very much counting on it and wants it to be introduced as soon as possible, I will vote in favour of the amendments. I trust my colleagues who know about public finances that these amendments are necessary. I will also vote in favour of the law because I believe that compensation for an occupational rehabilitation fund and an occupational activity fund is expected by the employers' environment of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two sentences to what Senator Libicki said about original sin. Minister, in my opinion, the primary sin is that something like this was created. This is something that, once again, will be an academic example of how we should not work with such laws, how we should not implement them and what solutions we should not adopt. It's all on your head. Do you remember what it was like? The Polish Load hasn't entered yet... That's what Senator Libicki was talking about. Who's responsible for this? How was this promoted? Well, I'll just say two sentences. Prime Minister Morawiecki said it would be a huge breakthrough, which would end in total success. As if the tax system depended on the good in each country. He can strengthen or weaken something, but good comes first from work, not distribution. This is also what Senator Libicki said. And President Kaczyński said that for over a thousand years there has not been such a good project for the Republic. What we're doing today is patching holes. Let me rephrase that. Minister, I asked if this process could be stopped. From what I've said, I've concluded that it's not. I want to use a metaphor. People often ask themselves when they're renovating something... Because we're dealing with a great renovation here. We haven't moved in for good yet, and we already have to renovate. That's pretty much what it looks like. People, when they stand before a decision, whether to renovate or to demolish and build from the beginning, pay attention to many elements. And that is why, Minister, please... It is a pity that the openness that I see in you today has been completely lacking in previous work and implementation of the project. As if you had heard Minister Sarnowski and all the others who came here and declared the truth revealed that this is an axiom, that it cannot be moved... And all the people around them said something completely different, especially those who know about this matter. Yeah, we talked about that. I said during the committee meeting that a man got two ears and one mouth from God to listen twice as much. Representatives of the government and the ministry did exactly the opposite. They convinced us that it would be a great work, and this is one of the biggest messes. Well, I don't want to use harsher words. Therefore, Minister, I ask you very much: when you are in the ministry and working on this, consult all of this, be open to discussion. On the Internet, people give examples of slips that will result in a year-long settlement. This is also an example of how not to approach it. Here we are looking at the right solution for people with disabilities. I'm looking at the Minister now. Was it so difficult to predict that if the tax-free amount increases, the income of people operating in this area will decrease? Oh, no, it's an abacus. And today you convince us that this is a good solution. Yeah, it's good, but, like I said, in all this bad-ass house... The fundamental question is whether to tear down this house and start building from the beginning, or to renovate it? I am convinced that it would be better to refrain from implementing this programme while preserving the selected elements that will benefit taxpayers and companies and which will not ruin the budget. Well, from these assumptions you can choose such elements. Give yourselves a year or 2 years to implement the elements that Polish Load contains. Minister, there are still a few problems that Polish Load brings with it. Last time I read, it's actually a tax. When you think about it, you do. Someone gets income and pays 9% and then from this income, not less than what he paid for the health fund, he pays another 17% or 32%. As one economist called it, it's a tax tax. And there are a lot of unfriendly issues here for the taxpayer, also according to the people who think about the changes you're making. And what our legislator pointed out as unacceptable, that is, the uncertainty of tomorrow. In short, the taxpayer does not know at 100% what tax it will pay for 2022. I asked this question, and the Minister said this: we will strive I'm quoting from memory, more or less. In order to ensure that the amount of tax paid is similar to the tax due. Who's going to pursue? Well, who's gonna go for it? Minister, whoever's counting has to be clear: here I put one, two, third number, here I subtract and I know everything. He needs to know that. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: It's not perfect, but it hasn't been...]] Minister, I will also refer to this, to this perfection. I understand that man is a creature that makes mistakes, that we do nothing perfect. We won't, but I want to tell you... Minister, because you are a man who has just taken up this field, and in this area there are certain problems. Polish tax system Not as far as taxes are concerned, but as regards the construction of the tax system, it was considered to be one of the more complex in Europe. After what you have introduced in this Polish mess, people who deal with this area clearly state this: such a complex, illegible, discretionary system we will count and see what comes out at the end. There's nowhere in the world. And I believe them more than the government of law and justice. I appreciate the fact that the Minister wants to correct this, but I really encourage you to reflect so that you do not make the situation worse as part of this correction. These 4 comments, which our legislator included in the opinion, show that in each of these issues you are breaking the Constitutional Tribunal's orders and Polish law. I know you're gonna say yes, but for the sake of taxpayers, we listen. I will say this again: you have to listen at the time of making the law, not when it is already in operation. The Lord says now: we listen. All right, listen up, but the system's already working, and it's bringing in specific problems. And what often falls: you want to improve the quality of life through a complete change of redistribution Well, you can accept that; you want taxes to be more progressive, not regressive. It can also be accepted. Minister, these ideas can be implemented, but not by this method. And I'll tell you how it probably happened. Well, those who are doing PR came and said this: we will win the election, but on one condition, that we will invent another 500+, which is such an additional redistribution. And Poland's Load was created, resulting in a huge crowd of people making extra money for those who earn less. Maybe it's right, I'm not denying it, it's the way you do it, the mess that's causing it, the interpretation gaps, the complete illegibility. All of this leaves nothing left of this idea. The Lord says we'll work, we'll improve. Of course, every bad building can be repaired, except you fix it the way you fix it so you don't use any other comparison. And I believe that everything that could be done for the Polish financial system, the tax system, for the Polish economy, because this is also related to it, was included in these documents. And now with this kind of pacing, you want to correct it. To conclude, I would like to say once again, referring to the Senate Legislative Office, that you can do all that you have in the Polish Łada, but also in this bill or rather in the law passed by the Sejm... There is no legal security here, the taxpayer does not know or has doubts, interpretation problems, i.e. there is uncertainty of knowledge about taxes, there is a trap for the citizen. Namely, this was the discussion at the committee meeting: we pay, we approach what is to be done, but at the end we will count and see what comes out. [[Timer signal]] Therefore, Minister, I personally will not vote against this law, for example because of the elements that slightly improve this mess, but generally roll up your sleeves if you do not want to do one: suspend this program, select those elements that are good, and work longer to implement a program that will be understandable, readable, legally stable and acceptable to most Poles. And that's what I'm asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will, of course, vote in favour of this bill, because if in any way It improves the giant errors in the Polish Łada, for example, it is worth voting for. But I am worried about something else, apart from, of course, all the chaos connected with the Polish Lads and all the laws that the government and the Members of Law and Justice are making to correct all these mistakes. As a senator of yet little experience, I am very worried that we have practically become accustomed to the fact that very often there is a violation of the law when it comes to legislation, that there are some dwarf feats that are carried out by the Legislative Office, there is no preserved number of readings, there is no consultation, no OSR, etc. I just want to signal that as an inexperienced senator, I'm broken because I've worked in the local government for many years, and we couldn't afford the slightest mistake or violation of the law, and here we're all getting used to it. That's one thing. So once again: when it comes to these amendments, of course, I will vote for them, although when it comes to Polish Loads, this is one big disaster. You have to patch all these holes. And I feel sorry for the Minister for having to do this. I would like to focus on the copper tax, because I am very interested in it, because I live in the city, which, so to speak, lies on copper and the whole copper story I could tell you for hours about how we fought, so that any company, whether it's Polish or KGHM, or any other copper concession. I remember that for many, many years, one such reason, one of the elements that was that it was not worth entering into the mining of this copper, was a very, very high tax on fossils. Indeed, in Poland this tax is one of the highest in the world, so its reduction is of course justified. But that's not what worries me. I'm worried about making accident decisions. So we have a company of the Treasury, which is, say, a leader in its market and a monopoly, and for one company, tax is reduced, and that's 30%, to help this company. So I ask the question: and other companies in Poland, commercial law companies, which also have some problems with functioning, will also have a reduced tax? When do you think the company's in trouble, we're gonna lower that tax? I do not know whether it will be such a trend, such a fashion that companies, regardless of the Treasury, but companies of commercial law will be treated individually and selectively. So lower the fossil tax because he's terribly high. But I would expect state policy, fiscal policy of the state, when it comes to taxation, to be long-term and predictable, not accidental. I spoke to a potential investor today who wants to invest several billion zlotys in the construction of mines and copper mining in the vicinity of my city, which has been blocked for years. And I just heard: how someone is going to plan an investment worth several billion zlotys in Poland without knowing how you will behave or whether you will lower the tax And you're right. 30%, and he's about to raise it or he's gonna take that reduction? So I call on you to make this fiscal policy predictable, long-term, and to treat investors equally. And not that it is that because some entity is a state champion, it has special privileges and is treated in a special way. We have a free market and I would ask you, however, to apply a policy that allows traders, whether they are talking about national championships or a private company, to pursue such activities. If you lower this tax, I will vote in favour of lowering this tax. But I hope that you will do this in a way that allows investors to plan their investments, and that investors will not be afraid that the Polish state will selectively use financial or tax tools to help someone, to hurt someone, to get someone out of trouble or to block some investment. So once again: I will vote in favour of the bill, but I ask that, on some occasion, I explain what this state policy is about, that this time we are helping, and next time we will go back to very high prices and block multi-billion-dollar investments in Poland. Because no Western investor will enter Poland, will enter a country where the financial system is unpredictable and treated in a selective or incidental manner by traders. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in Senator Robert Dowhan's remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Yes, Mr. Senator, you're welcome.]] Can you hear me? [[Yes, yes, you can hear me.]] Good. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I would like to congratulate the ministers on the courage that this legislative bubble came and its names, this legislative shame at all, that they were trying to make a good face for the whole terrible game they gave us last year. I can't understand at all that no one in the government of Law and Justice has the guts to make a really not so much of an honorary exit as the way out of all this face-to-face saying: we've made mistakes, something doesn't agree with us there, people might lose it, so we've decided that we're going to back off and work on it, and we're going to get back to the subject maybe this year, maybe next year, but then we're going to do it right. The minister has been dismissed, so we have a scapegoat. And it might be better to get out of this than to sit down and patch up all those rules. I mean, what does it look like when... I don't know, you can laugh and cry about it. Every now and then there's some bubble we're talking about, and then there's a conference, the Prime Minister goes out, and he says, "Ah, yeah, yeah." That's where you're gonna lose it? Okay, we'll do it. Is there something wrong up there? Okay, we'll level it out. This group has a problem? It can account for itself as old as it used to be. Over and over and over again. People make big eyes, no one knows what's going on, who's taking responsibility for it, the prime minister's here today, but he hasn't signed any cyrographs that he'll even it up. Him. 'Cause who's gonna even it up? Former Minister of Kościński. He's not here today. To whom do I grieve? To the new minister who's not here either? The Prime Minister's here today. He may not be here tomorrow. Where will the people come, where the taxpayers will come, where the families will come? Where? It's all on your head. It's really on his head. As the classic said in the famous comedy: there are no words in the dictionary of cultural people that could be abusive enough to define Polish Load. And that's the truth. And that's the truth. You're promoting everyone but those who work for it. You don't promote honest-working people with companies. You are constantly disturbing them by working in tax law, changing the status of limited companies, imposing various burdens, taking them away from the possibility of deduction, at a time when the whole world is in a pandemic, at a time when our neighbour Czechs have reduced their taxes to 15%. and others give concrete relief, not spreading it, not dividing it into individual groups and not calculating that this one has a little bit more, we won't give it to him, and this one has a little less, he needs to be added as much as he can. This is what my colleague Wadim Tyszkiewicz said: one company you can give 30% What about the other companies? Do you think the restaurateurs, that the companies that produce, that others don't have problems? And they fell off the moon? Are they in a different reality? Shouldn't they be reduced taxes? How does it feel to be honest when one thing goes up every now and then... And if there's a problem, you lower it. Why, for example? Poczta Polska does not have fiscal cash, since everyone has to buy fiscal cash, paper rolls, print it, send files, etc. with heavy money.? Today at the post office you can probably buy almost anything except meats, but mail as a monopoly or former state monopoly is of course fired. Such examples of a pathology in our economy can really be multiplied. About this Polish Lad... As I see on TV these conferences of yours, or I hear your announcements that you will add here, there you will even out that this is an economic miracle, and as I hear your stories about inflation, that Poles will make more money, I really do not know where you studied math. Where did you maths go? After all, this Polish Character is like zero. And if you add zero to zero, whether you multiply or divide by zero, it's still going to be zero. It's still gonna be zero. Really have the courage to say it's wrong that you didn't expect someone to fail, name two or three names. It's not like the world's gonna collapse. Get out of this. Well, we're not gonna fix that every now and then. How many times have you corrected this Polish Load? Who's gonna figure it out? After all, people, taxpayers at the end are responsible for this. And the ordinary citizens or groups who keep saying that they're missing... Well, with all this inflation, they're about to fall into some kind of insolvency bubble, so to speak. I don't know if I'll vote for the amendments. They're right, of course, but I don't know if voting on this bill, which is not a law, but a pathology, makes sense. I don't know if it's better to force you through any protests or requests... You want us to get down on our knees, get down on our knees so you can get out of this? Because it's the best way, and that's what I recommend. Do it, and you'll come out with a face. People will understand. They'll really understand. Don't go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. With this sharing by zero And whether it's always going to come out zero. I'd be careful.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate, which we are slowly ending, could probably be summarised with one commonly known phrase in Poland: it is good and it will be hopeless. Today it was mentioned by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, who knows himself better than me about the construction of the building by replacing old windows with new windows in a ruining building. And so is the ruined tax system. Because you ruined him. You, Minister, surely know that the tax system is not just legislation. You ruined the law, but that's not all. The tax system is also a tax interpretation, that is also an interpretation, that is judicial case law. The case law is generally built for two or three years and tax case law is built for five or seven years. In fact, the whole construction of the tax system is regulations, but this construction for taxpayers, for citizens, is filling this whole system of case law. You ruined it all. Therefore tax advisors, therefore accountants have a problem with advising and clearing, already with the first accounting of entrepreneurs not only because they cannot read laws because they have to read them by law, but also taking into account judicial case law, general interpretations, individual interpretations, taking into account all of this. And you ruined it. It's a complete, unambiguous, undoubted failure. You have led to something that could be called the party privatization of the Polish state. Why? Well, so de facto all the laws, all the initiatives you are taking, and the one we are talking about, the Polish Load, is the proof of the most powerful one, are not subordinated to the interests of the state, the interests of citizens, in this case the interests of taxpayers, but are subordinated to the interests of the political party that governs. Why am I betting on that? If you were referring to a genuine, systemic, comprehensive tax reform in Poland, one that would stabilise the situation for years or decades, as in some countries the example of Switzerland was often given here, you would have prepared it, even by the Sejm and the Senate, but for safety reasons you would have introduced a 12-month period of vacathio legis, i.e. you would have introduced it on 1 January 2023. Then all the changes we are making now would still be those that would question... would give rise to doubts about the reform, but at least would not create chaos and confusion among citizens. Why, then, should this have worked since 1 January 2022? Well, like I said, it's all about politics, not just propaganda, it's also about politics and electoral gain. You wanted those changes that you thought were not, at least until now, to give financial gain especially to certain groups, in this case not to social groups, but to electoral groups... You wanted them to see it in their account, physically in their account, after clearing in 2023, so that in May the settlement money would come and that everyone would be happy that the mother party And that's why it was necessary to rape, violate reason, rationality, any form of positive thinking to introduce it from 1 January 2022. Now what? 852 amendments, today we are discussing the next. You are already announcing that next week there will be a bill to the Senate, in which there will be further amendments and changes made by the government, and I say there will be tens more, or maybe hundreds more. You privatized the country, also this tax system, in order to make it work electorally, not financially, tax, development, economically, but politically in 2023. And this is an absolute scandal. I want to say that in the Senate we held two debates, a public consultation, and we did what you didn't do. And a team for sustainable development, and a team for small and medium-sized enterprises... We talked about this already in October, so practically three months before the end of the year, and then there were conclusions... And we held this debate with experts, tax advisors, accountants, not just businessmen and taxpayers. And even then there were demands to suspend all of this or, if you approve it, with a 12-month vacatio legis, so that all parties and taxpayers, and entrepreneurs, but also officials, could adapt to it. And so that what's wrong can change. You didn't do it, you didn't agree to it. This is another proof that it wasn't about reform, it wasn't about change, it wasn't about improving the legal situation in Poland, it was about creating a system that would give the winning elections in 2023. It was about giving money to certain groups of voters. Not citizens, not taxpayers, just voters, because that's how these laws are addressed, which you're not hiding. To conclude, I would like to say that not only then in October, but also now, last weekend, on Friday 11 February, we held another debate on small and medium-sized enterprises, during which conclusions were drawn. But I don't know if they're interested in you, because it's not only in conversation, but it's still happy, as I see it, here with a friend of Jackowski's... But, Senator Jackowski, I would like to say that if you interfere with listening to the statements of the various senators, including myself, the Minister, it is the Minister, especially since he has a short internship in this difficult resort, he will not understand what he has stepped into. Then don't bother me. I won't go in, especially since I'm running out of time, in details and details of the effects of these meetings, the meetings, the consultations I mentioned. I will only say this because the conclusions are very simple, crystal, conclusions from advisors, from experts, from entrepreneurs, from taxpayers. Primo: repeal, and if you do not have the courage to repeal, suspend the operation of tax laws of the Polish Government and proceed immediately, in consensus with the social partners' environments, to write new draft laws that will make changes so that they do not cause damage. Secondly, even the law which would be adopted in this way should contain at least six months, preferably a 12-month period of vacathio legis, so that all parties who are the recipients of this right can comply with it and then comply with it in accordance with the law, integrity and good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u147	Mr. Senator, I am addressing Senator Szejnfeld. You were unnecessarily moved because we were just discussing what you were talking about with the Minister, which is how to fix Poland's Load. And I have a clean account on this, because I have just voted in favour of this amendment, so that the Polish Load will enter into force from 1 January 2023. [[Oh, but happy smiles didn't indicate that.]] So I'd like to explain to you that this wasn't a comment on your speech... [[Voice from the room: They pointed, they pointed.]] ...only a substantive discussion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u148	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Chybick, Gromek, Świlski, Małecka-Libera made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Alicja Chybicka and Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Unlike what Senator Kononowicz suggested... oh, I'm sorry, Szejnfeld, who said we ruined everything, listened carefully and noted everything. What I'm saying is that this is a graphical comparison to this house that needs to be renovated... Because you'd want to tear it down, build it again. Well, it's a discussion, or it's better to tear it down or renovate it... And I'll just remind you that there are people living in it. And if there are 10 rooms in this house, then in 8 of them people are happy because there is a new sofa, a new chair, a changed chandelier, painted walls, well, it's even nicer, and in 2 of them people are dissatisfied because they had to add more to these changes But that's really no reason to tear this house down. If we want to make changes in the tax year and they will be stable, will have a legal basis and will be changed for longer than for this tax year They must be in favour of the taxpayer and only such changes will we propose to you. Of course, I never said that the advance system could be perfect. So far, those of you who account for your PIT tax, which is probably almost everyone or a great majority... Well, we know that we had an overpayment, we had an underpayment, that there are different situations that affect it, but you always have to make sure that the advance system is as proportionate as possible, because it's for the benefit and the budget, and the taxpayer, to get them closer. to the actual taxation. And that's not pacing. This is something that is always a challenge in the tax system. If you understand the return to the tax system before the Polish Government in such a way that it means a return to deduction from the tax base of health contributions in such proportions or in other... Well, I don't want to work here because I don't think it's the right place, but if I were being mean about this tax thing, I'd say that's exactly what's been going on for 19 years. [[Voice from the room: No.]] But that's exactly how it is. Because regardless of whether it's 1%, 1.25%, 1.75% This is the situation, although in different proportions, we do. And, of course, we can work on what tax is, what is a premium, what is the difference between a social security contribution that, when paid, is taxed on PIT, on health benefits that are not taxed on it. I think there's really no point in this twitter, publicist discussion in the Senate. Let's have a serious conversation because it's really about taxpayers and their business. And I'm so convinced that as long as we're talking about specific solutions, like. about these 2 proposals concerning PIT-2 that we have presented during the year, whether about the issue of working pensioners, whose solution was perfectly proposed by Minister Wdezik, or about this issue, which allows KGHM to invest... That's when we talk rationally. And if we're starting to talk about a really high policy, well, we're not being serious anymore. The Senate, however, is a chamber of seriousness and reflection. I wish I could. And I hope that we will be able to work through these projects that I will report to you, together, also listening to the voice of the senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The text of the Act is contained in print No 633, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 633 A and 633 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors (Sejm No. 1990) and Senate Print No. 633 (Senatian Print No. 633) was an urgent government draft law. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Act adapts Polish law to the guidelines of the European Commission on certain State aid measures in the context of the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading after 2021 for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, such as: like production of steel, copper or hydrogen. The new rules will enable eligible entrepreneurs to obtain compensation on the basis set by the European Commission for the following period, i.e. for the period 2021 to 2030. The Sejm passed the bill at its forty-eightth meeting. It was transferred to the Senate on February 10th. The senate's review is due to expire on 24 February 2022. And the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, as well as to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. And we just did yesterday. This law has been approved unanimously without amendment. Now maybe a little bit about the details. The most important amendments to the Law of 19 July 2019 take into account the content of the new guidelines. These changes are: change of the condition of negative compensation, update of the formulas for calculating the compensation value, setting a maximum aid intensity of 75% or even higher, introducing additional obligations for applicants, amending the list of energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. As a result of these... The amendment provides, in particular, for additional documentation to be provided, the need to provide documentation proving that the entity to which compensation has been granted has been met, the extension of the catalogue of compensation conditions, the addition of the catalogue of administrative fines, as well as the possibility for the President of the URE to issue a decision granting partial compensation for the previous calendar year. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 3 new amendments provide that the provisions of the Act shall apply to cases relating to compensation for 2019 and 2020 and for 2021 the provisions on compensation as amended shall apply. That's the mouth. 2. In the case of an application for compensation for 2021 submitted before the date of entry into force of this amendment by an entity which... This deadline is key, these applications must be submitted by the end of April 2022. High Izbo, the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs recommends the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors adopted by the Sejm on 9 February 2022. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. All the members present at the committee's meeting voted in favour of this decision. My previous speaker basically exhausted the subject. I would just like to read you a passage from the law on what amounts are foreseen for these compensations. It's an art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a. The limit of expenditure for the payment of compensation from the Fund is: in 2022, EUR 1 billion 766 million with tail; in 2023, EUR 4 billion 189 million; in 2024 EUR 3 billion 744 million; in 2025 EUR 3 billion 824 million; in 2026 EUR 5 billion 14 million; in 2027 EUR 5 billion 134 million; in 2028 EUR 5 billion 276 million; in 2029 EUR 5 billion 688 million; in 2030 PLN 5 billion 604 million. In 2031 and then ends this period, it will be PLN 5 billion 192 million. Of course, additional amounts are indicated here, e.g. the limit of expenditure from the State budget for the performance of the tasks of the President of the URE. Well, if we're entrusting him with some kind of assignment, we need to finance it. These amounts range from 2 million 896 thousand in 2022 to 2 million 538 thousand in 2031. I'm asking the Senate to accept this bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, senators. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Mariusz Golecki: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. I invite Mr Mariusz Golecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u155	Dear Marshal, High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank the government for the very smooth process of this law in both committees, both in the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, and in the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. This is a very important regulation, especially at the moment. Energy-intensive sectors are looking forward to such a movement, the revision of this regulation, the compensation system. In order to sum up, we are talking here about 200 companies, which include a compensation system. The sum, the spending limit by 2030, is PLN 45 billion to be used to restore the ability to produce competitively in these sectors. The aim is to restore this competitiveness in some way to those companies which are particularly affected by the rise in the price of emission allowances. Therefore, for this project, we also requested an urgent, urgent procedure because there was some delay in adapting this system. This delay was due to the fact that the European Commission had only published, at the end of last year, literally on 30 December, an explanation to guide the calculation of the amounts to be allocated to individual applicants. This project also contains a major change, i.e. extending the deadline for submitting compensation applications, which is also important when we consider that these rules have changed, as well as the list of entities has changed quite substantially, precisely because of the guidelines adopted by the European Commission. I would like to say that the compensation issues will concern these 200 companies and half a million workers. So this is a very important issue. Therefore, in order to create competitive conditions for energy-intensive sectors, we requested that this project be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Thank you again for this efficient and effective procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Lamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question for you: do you think, in connection with the financial burden, as a resort, that these large plants become such an electroprosumer of energy, in other words, producing energy for your own needs? I know that for example. Copper makes such moves, and so does Włocławek. Are there other plants in Poland, those that are very energy-intensive, and do you have any cooperation proposals for them, as did other countries, countries of the European Union? If you don't know right now, I'd ask you to answer in writing, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator, I will answer immediately, because this project has been widely consulted with sector representatives. On 8 February, a meeting was held within the trilateral committee, meeting with the steel team. Indeed, the industry stressed that, from a strategic and long-term perspective, we need such solutions. This is also a very appropriate question because it is this amendment that provides for, among other things, an amendment of the rules. Introduction of the so-called conditionalities, i.e. incentives for these companies in the form of green investments which make it possible to grant this aid. So I'm going to say, yes, we're thinking about it. As far as the details of the steel sector are concerned, indeed such expectations were reported by the industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u160	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Oh, excuse me, Mr. Senator Komarnicki in remote mode. Are you the senator? Can Komaricki hear me? I've got it right here. [[Can you hear me now?]] Oh, yeah, yeah. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have three questions for you, if you don't mind. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Last year Poland earned PLN 25 billion under the ETS system. How much of this has been spent on renewable energy? I'm asking because they say 1.5 billion zlotys. If we are so scandalous about this money, we will lose, Minister, the huge civilization opportunity that we have to change our energy production system. And because we don't invest in low-voltage networks, we're talking about the fact that we can't afford RES because the network can't. Then what has the government been doing for the last seven years? At ETS, Minister, in the last few years we have earned PLN 60 billion. So what? What did it go for? It went to a black budget hole, it was eaten over, it went to various programs, which absolutely did not serve energy change in Poland. [[Timer signal]] Second question. We are talking again about compensation: PLN 31 billion for compensation for mining; if I remember correctly, 66 billion for compensation and other financial instruments for PGNiG; and today we are talking about 35 billion for energy-intensive sectors. Unfortunately, all of this is due to the errors of the Law and Justice Government. You have done nothing or very little in the context of renewables... [[Disruption during the speech]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u162	Mr. Senator, your call's been suspended, but since it's time, I'll assume the questioning's over, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u163	As for these funds, to remind you that last year, it was about 900 million zlotys, 819 million were spent. We are talking here about compensation for indirect costs. As far as the increase in contributions to the compensation fund is concerned, we have also observed that this increase is happening now, and therefore the need to amend these rules both at European level, as the Commission has observed as well as in Poland. This is not just our problem, it is the problem of all enterprises in Europe affected by the so-called phenomenon. emissions escape. As far as the payments so far are concerned, as I said, we have not even been able to fully... our companies have not used them so far. It should also be said that previously forecasted prices of these certificates, the value of these certificates were significantly lower, so this last increase It's a matter of the last year. We can say that this amendment reflects the increase in these limits from 11 billion designed in 2019 to 45 billion, is such a response to this situation. With regard to how this has been spent so far, I will also allow myself here to address this in writing and to clarify these issues in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe that's a naive question, but... is this list of energy-intensive sectors, Appendix 1, that's what we're proposing, or is that what Europe is imposing on us, or is this some kind of compilation of both ways? Because I think some people aren't here, and I think they should be. I do not know how the Minister refers, for example, to the issue of fertilizers, building materials. Should they be here or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u166	Mr. Senator, I must answer again that at the stage of government work, such comments were raised, in particular concerning artificial fertilisers. The answer given by the Ministry of Development is that, in view of the revised guidelines, the European Commission is setting this list. Unfortunately, the methodology appears to be a list which, on the one hand, extends the question of these compensations to a certain group of companies, but on the other hand narrows them down. So it should be noted that the question of methodology for preparing these guidelines is controversial and raised not only in Poland. Indeed, we will take action to create permissible shielding mechanisms based on Article. 107 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular as regards the production of fertilisers. The pharmaceutical industry has also been affected by these changes proposed by the Commission. Of course, the Commission argues that the level of energy intensity does not correspond to the requirements of the Directive, but here is the issue of a dispute about parameters. This was all the more difficult because, as I said, parameters, specific indicators, in terms of energy intensity and efficiency, were published on 30 December 2021 with the assumption that the regulation was to enter into force from 1 January, so it was not adaptable. In response to this expectation or taking up this challenge, in dialogue with the European Commission, we are trying to create these new shielding mechanisms, which are simply introducing a subsidy mechanism for those industries that have not been able to accommodate these indirect compensations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u167	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'll ask. On the one hand, I understand that there are objective indicators. Okay, very good. On the other hand, I understand that there is a certain possibility of maneuvering and the effect is that certain countries or better to say certain economies of these countries may lose and gain some. Because it's an opportunity, I'd call it a market, also a political market, and certainly an economic one. How would you describe these new guidelines, which I understand are also changing the list of these sectors, for us, for the Polish economy, more or less beneficial? Totally, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u168	This is a very difficult question, Senator, because so far this system has only been implemented by Italy. So we have a difficulty even with comparison, because we need to talk about the single market at this point. But from a net effect point of view, we can say that these changes are beneficial, because they allow for an increase in... This conditionality mechanism has been introduced, but in principle there is an increase in limits, and it simply allows for a higher level of refinancing. But, as I said, different countries are already signaling different approaches to this issue, including by proposing new shield mechanisms, and we will go this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u169	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but the last question, which in some ways might be a conclusion, actually, had to be a start. Is this actual deregulation... Because the number of regulatory mechanisms, in my opinion, is beginning to exceed the self-regulatory capacity of the economy, the markets as such. It used to be said that capitalism would settle all the issues for itself, and here we are dealing with manual control. Don't you think the Minister is just going the wrong way? In my opinion, the effect will be that we will not only be less competitive within the Union, but also outside, the Union as a whole... And there are also ideologies of the type, although this is of course connected with climate protection, etc., and the effect is that some delusions, otherwise it cannot be called, introduce our economy, but probably other economies, maybe not all, in some turn, from which it will be really difficult to come out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u170	Indeed, it must be said that this is a very technical regulation. We are talking about a good climate policy and the ETS. The government has repeatedly stressed the need for reform of this system, and the introduction of additional instruments that would allow to mitigate the risks associated with, for example, a drastic increase in certificate prices. And I am sure that this discussion will take place because we are also receiving, we see what is happening in other countries of the European Union. Criticism in this system is quite common, but it may not yet be sufficiently addressed in official documents and positions. It's to warn the senator's objections, which I personally, as a regulatory scientist, have shared in principle for more than 20 years. Indeed, the degree of complexity at this point We're talking about the regulatory mechanism itself. It's so big... Besides, working on these guidelines confirms it to a certain extent, because it's rare... We have just heard a lot of criticisms in this House about the level of legislation on the projects under review. Here we are dealing with the European Commission, which, as I said, expects us to implement the system within one day, 24 hours, because we only have access to the basic element of this system in the form of these indicators on 30 December. Of course, we have responded by extending this deadline by a month, but it must be said that this is certainly noticeable, the level of complexity and the further measures by which we are repairing this situation, which is also urgent because of what is happening with the certificates, what is happening with the price of gas and electricity in general in Europe at the moment... It can be seen that the degree of complexity is actually very high and this discussion should not only be academic, but above all in terms of specific tools and concrete solutions to start. The government is already doing this, and it will certainly do so with full determination.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u171	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Mariusz Golecki: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. And again, please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki in remote mode. Mr. Senator, do we hear you? [[And now we're hearing each other right?]] Yeah, yeah, we hear each other. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u172	Dear Marshal, High Senate! When the basic law was adopted, if I remember correctly, in 2019 the price of allowances was EUR 24 per certificate. Unfortunately, today it is over 90 euros, almost 100 euros, and probably the price will still be able to rise. Such high energy prices have a strong impact on the energy-intensive industry, which we are looking at today. But not only on it, because after these huge increases in energy prices proposed by energy companies, it can be said that the industries that are at risk are actually almost all companies in Poland. It's not just about the steelworks, it's about the regular bakery or the other little company. These are, unfortunately, the effects of these six years of negligence, Minister, and six years of your misdecisions, which you have made permanently, even though we have repeatedly paid attention to this at the meetings of our economic committee. These are also the consequences of non-certified costs incurred by energy companies, as absurd as financing various types of foundations, including the national foundation. I don't want to be upset about the construction and demolition costs of Ostrołęki, then of Turowo or other messes that, unfortunately, we have every now and then in the energy system and which we hear about. These are also costs, Minister, which companies bear, and they also enter into energy prices... It goes on for example. recently noticed lying propaganda on billboards, which says that 60% of energy costs were costs related to the European Union's climate policy, and yet we all know that this is absurdly incorrect, because the fees associated with certifications are about 23 and 24% of the costs of this energy. The rest are costs and various types of burdens on companies, which generate among others. Such a stupid, lying, untrue and shameful campaign. Taking advantage of the fact that today we are talking about the price of energy, about costs, I would like to announce from this speaker that I will address a letter to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in connection with the misleading of consumers by energy companies, in connection with possible fraud related to the imposition of unjustified costs and the inclusion of these costs From a monopolistic position, of course, in which companies are presently in relation to the customer In the accounts paid by the customers. This applies not only to energy-intensive customers, but also to those of all industries, including small and individual customers. All these cases and your mistakes, we all pay. In turn, this law Okay, and here's the full agreement. It is very necessary because it will help at least some companies. The Minister has mentioned 200 companies that will be able to benefit from this law, or at least there is a chance that energy costs will be lower for them. We're in a climate crisis. We're facing a global disaster. The cause is greenhouse gas emissions. If we want to avoid the worst and pass on a viable planet to the next generation, our economy must, unfortunately, radically change. I'm aware of that. I myself have worked in the economy for many years, and I know that at this stage I have already lost part of the room, which has stubbornly refused to accept scientific knowledge. But, well, let's try to lose someone else. We must be aware, we know that the free market will not save us in this situation. It's global capitalism and the need for profit has led us to disaster. It is clear that managers are interested in short- and medium-term profits. Managers will not make a decision today which will make their financial results worse, although in the near future it would contribute to reducing emissions and improving the well-being of our great planet. They will not make such a decision for obvious reasons They'd be fired immediately. That's the system. Profits end up in a few accounts, while future and current costs are ceded to all of us, and to the greatest extent that seems exceptionally, I must say unfair, to those who are just entering adult life or who are just entering into it in the future. That's why we really need regulation. There is a need for mechanisms that will make companies change and turn our civilization green. Mechanisms can, of course, be smarter or dumber, but they are absolutely necessary for us, as these are not things that can be done at the level of this country. In our case, we are talking mainly about European regulations. The European Union has decided on a system of emissions trading in order to make it worthwhile to emit less than more carbon dioxide. I'm not a big fan of this solution myself. The market and even speculative nature of the ETS exposes businesses not only to severe but also to unpredictable costs. You can probably imagine a more functional and predictable system of taxation of emissions. The speculative nature of the ETS must certainly be stopped, but a child must not be poured out with a bath. You can't forget it's all for a reason. One thing is certain: ambitious climate targets are cost-effective and the concern for the competitiveness of the European economy is most justified in this context. That is why this law is needed and that is why these compensations make sense. Other mechanisms, e.g. the carbon duty at the entry into the European Union, in order to equalise opportunities, is a good solution. It is therefore worth noting that the requirements imposed on businesses seeking compensation include requirements for energy efficiency standards. This is, of course, another growth boost that needs to come forward in the future, because the climate crisis has become a reality and the new green industrial revolution is of course a necessity. These economies, which today will consciously make an effort to change, will cope in the future. Besides, we are already paying for the fact that our energy system has not changed in the last 10 and 20 years. And it's gonna take so long. If we do not consciously make an effort to change today, we will be more and more behind. The costs will be falling on us more and more. It is not the European Union, Minister, but our delays in energy transformation are the main reason why Poles pay higher electricity prices today. But it can also be hidden that we started from a much lower level and that as Poland we are in a much more difficult situation than our Western European partners. Of course, we must fight for fair treatment in Europe, not spit on Europe. This does not mean equal treatment in this case, because we start from different levels, but it cannot be avoided that for the current European Union, it is no longer an area for fighting for Polish interests, but an excuse for not doing anything. And lastly, Minister, get those billboards off 'cause they're gonna make you laugh. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We really have a little discussion today about the effects, not about the causes, because the energy-intensive industry, if it is to be competitive in markets not only in Europe but also in the world... At a high price of energy such competitiveness will not be guaranteed. Therefore, we will probably all vote in favour of this law in the High House. At least I'll get everyone to do it. However, I would like to say a few words about the reasons. Poland is characterized today by the fact that the price of energy is high. My previous speakers... Senator Komarnicki spoke about PLN 60 billion, that so much has been paid to the state budget by the sale of carbon allowances. I am aware that you will not answer what this money has gone to. I'll tell you more: as long as I've been observing the budget, and I've been reading the budget for a few years, I've never found in the state budget or in the money for the modernisation of the transmission network or for the construction of installations related to renewable energy sources. Well, I'm sure you won't find those items in the budget. And that money should be meant for exactly that purpose. Because this is the way the ETS system is designed, so that the money that comes from the sale of emission allowances goes to national budgets, so that it is spent primarily on modernising high-carbon energy systems, and in general the entire high-carbon industry as such. But this is not the case in Poland. This is not the case in Poland. The budget for 2021 assumed that this revenue would amount to PLN 10 billion. They've exceeded 25 billion zlotys. The Prime Minister bragged, Prime Minister Morawiecki, that we have more revenue. But there is no information, we will not find such information that more has been spent on transmission networks, to adapt them to the needs of a growing field related to renewable energy sources. I want to make it clear to the senators in this part of the room that you may be enchanting reality, but you have to remember that coal is something that's actually fertile. It was not closed because suddenly the owner, a private owner, had such a whim, just because there was simply no brown coal. The same will happen with Belchatov in a moment. The brown coal resources in the part concerning Belchatów are no longer providing a very long perspective on the operation of this power plant. Of course, you can look for solutions like Złoczew, etc. I know all these things. I don't want to bother you here. But coal is drawing, and the world is moving away from coal. Poland will also have to move away from coal, not only because it is climate policy. I'm glad she's like that, and I want to say it clearly. 60 billion zlotys have been eaten. In fact, neither the zloty went on tasks that are related to the modernisation of transmission networks, the adaptation of infrastructure to the needs of renewable energy and the area that concerns the development of RES in Poland as such. But I'll tell you more. Not only 60 billion were wasted because more money was wasted. At the moment, if the government acted in accordance with EU legislation, we would have several hundred billion zlotys at our disposal for investments related to the development of transmission networks and energy modernisation, at least from several sources, not only as part of the Fund for Reconstruction, but also from the budget of the European Union. Several hundred billion zlotys. It is about adapting port infrastructure to the needs of offshore, etc., etc. We don't have the money. Why don't we have that money? Why don't we have them? We all know why. There is a functioning government that puts ideology over the energy security of Poles, which presents its own will and willingness to fill courts over cases that concern the good existence of Poles, here in Poland. These are facts. You can't escape these facts. Finally you can complain that coal, that something, that ideology, etc., but... I've already talked about it here today, in this room, and I'll repeat it again. The Lithuanians reduced the energy price by 30% only because they invested in RES. Germany has been investing effectively in RES for many years. At the moment, they're 60%. energy from renewable sources. And the German economy is much more energy-intensive. It's just bigger, it's a bigger country with a much better economy. And it's already 60%. energy is produced there from renewable energy sources. We talked about this at the committee meeting. The Minister probably heard one of the House's representatives talking about those margins that are calculated by individual electricity producers. The government doesn't do anything about it, especially in the part about the margin charged by coal generators. Well, this ceiling is determined by the gas generators. Today, high margins actually cause that... this is one of the reasons why the energy-intensive industry in this dimension has serious problems. Finally, speculation. I, too, do not agree with speculation in the EU ETS area, i.e. in the area of emissions trading. But I guess last week, or two weeks ago, I heard an important president. It's important from the government's point of view, because it's about President Obajtek, who boasted that Orlen earned greenhouse gas emission allowances on speculation. So I wonder what it's like. On the one hand, the government complains about this, but on the other hand, the President, who is closely linked to the PiS, boasts that the company he manages has earned on speculation. And watch out for the end. You can curse reality, but I will remind you once again, and I will remind you every time that for the package There was a possibility of blocking all decisions by one country, only there was a possibility of vetoing a certain Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. It happened a few months ago, so if someone from PiS goes out tonight and says it's bad, bad, etc., I'm sorry, but... Morawiecki, Ujazdowskie Avenue Please report these grievances there because he agreed to do so. I will say more: on climate policy at all And I'm gonna remind you of that infinity too. In 2007, the government of Jarosław Kaczyński agreed to take action on the climate and energy package. The summit at which this document was signed was held in March 2007 and on behalf of the Republic of Poland it was signed by Lech Kaczyński. So if you really want to say that there's some... First fight hard in your breasts. And really stop fighting in your chest and start doing simple things. Minister, I can no longer hear that you have been working for the Ministry of Development for four or five years on a bill that will change the 10H rule. I've been hearing that for years. You guys are gonna get paid, and this is a really simple bill. If you can't, I'll write it to you, even next week. It's a simple bill. You don't work so much, just file a bill and take out those unfortunate 10Hs. Give Poles a chance to use cheaper energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Godyla, Gromko and Świlski made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on the support of households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. The text of the Act is contained in print No 630 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 630 A and 630 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, at the very beginning, I would like to say that we must realise that this is a law that has come to us as a matter of urgency. So we got it at the last minute, and the senators got the legal opinion. Also written in a hurry They only received 3.5 hours before the committee meeting, on which we had to make a decision, because it was yesterday. Of course, we received the bill and leaned over it, but because the principles of this law are not fully known to all, I will try to present them briefly and quickly, eating different materials, because matter I'm admitting it. I don't know her. I'm not very good at it, I don't know anything about decoders and digital receivers. And I am talking about this because, of course, we have already invited specialists, expert organisations, etc. to a meeting, but this kind of haste and that we cannot have any consultations that we cannot talk to all actors and that we cannot look at all the nuances of the law, puts us in a difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the act aims to provide material support to households by introducing the possibility of granting a benefit for the purchase of a television decoder. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that in Poland As in many other Member States of the European Union, there will be a change in the way digital terrestrial television is broadcast, and the current system will be changed to a more efficient one. And that change was temporary. It was due to take place by 30 June 2020 and, in exceptional cases, by 30 June 2022 at the latest. I'm reading those dates so we know we have to do this already because we're on deadline, but we could have done it. That's before. So there is no reason for this to be an urgent project. For some households, changing the standard will require replacing the receiver with a newer one, adapted to change the standard model, or having to equip the receiver with a digital terrestrial decoder at the moment. At present, there is no social programme to support households in the continuous receipt of free digital terrestrial television after a change of standard. Consequently, the Act sets out the principles and modalities for granting and implementing support to households to bear the costs associated with the revision of these standards. This is in the form of a benefit for the purchase of a television decoder, which will be carried out using a document confirming the award of the benefit. This witness will be worth up to PLN 100. So it's going to be like a voucher that you can get. The benefit will be granted on request by the authorised person by means of an electronic form made available by the Minister responsible for IT on the website. An application for a benefit may be submitted either through this website or through an operator designated by the Act. It will be the Polish Post Office. The Act provides that the information provided in the application will be subject to a follow-up verification and, if it is established that the benefit has been unduly collected, the Minister responsible for IT will determine in the decision the amount of the wrongly collected benefit. The benefit can be provided in fixed and online shops run by entrepreneurs who will be registered This means it must be entrepreneurs who will register with the Ministry and included in the list of traders selling television decoders. I may no longer talk about this in detail, but the bill provides for safeguards for entrepreneurs who will sell it so that there will be no fraud. Registration is one of these forms. Payment by means of a document confirming the award of the benefit will be possible until 31 December 2022, i.e. the current year, i.e. the closed period, the operation will be closed within a specified period of time. The Act also amends the Tax Act, so that the value of the benefit resulting from the exercise of the right to purchase a television decoder granted under the Act will be tax-free. And there's another change that's important. A change is made to telecommunications law providing for a penalty for a trader selling certain television decoders, which will sell a non-compliant television decoder to end users. This is related to the issue of decoders that we know about and which is the subject of various discussions. It's just, colloquially speaking, you push in different decoders that won't meet the requirements of these new digital standards. So that's pretty much what it looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has adopted 5 amendments. I'm gonna talk it over real quick, and then, if I have enough time, I'm gonna say something about the bill. The most important amendment concerns Article. Point 1 refers to what the voucher will be for. And it's written down that it's a decoder. Except at the moment, decoders are already on the latest generation of TVs. And among others. TV manufacturers paid attention to this problem, why only decoders are covered by this bonem, and this does not apply to people who have purchased TVs. Some even very poor people can have good quality televisions, for example. They got it from the kids or something. So that there are such cases and those persons are deprived of this benefit. In this case, it was not only about equalizing the rights of television operators, and most of the TV installation is in Poland, with the rights of traders selling decoders, and these decoders are usually produced in Asia, outside our country. The second reason for adopting the amendment I am talking about, i.e. allowing it to be not only a relief for the decoder, but also a relief for the TV, there are people with disabilities, some people with disabilities for whom the decoder is not a sufficient element to help them operate. These people usually use high-quality digital receivers, which also enable connection to the internet, obtaining different kinds of information, issuing different types of commands by the pilot, for example. subtitles that can be turned on or off, i.e. these are possibilities that the decoder doesn't have. So that some people with disabilities are using receivers and they would be excluded. That's why it's an amendment. The next three amendments are amendments, I would say, technical, orderly. Amendment 5 states that before concluding an agreement with the Polish Post, the Minister responsible for IT will provide the relevant Sejm and Senate committee with information on the provisions of this agreement. Where did this come from? This came from concerns about the amount of the contract with Poland Post or what percentage are the costs, which Polish Post will be billed and for what amount, what percentage of this budget allocated for the entire operation will be paid by Poland Post Because there have already been cases where Polish Post refused to give details of such an agreement, despite the request of Members. This amendment therefore obliges the Minister only and only to provide the Parliamentary and Senate committees with information on the provisions of the Agreement, so that this agreement is clear, transparent, so that there is no confusion or doubt about this matter. Here's what I'm going to say: this bill is poorly written. There was a lot of doubt, but That's what I'm saying upstairs. We didn't make things right. The most serious doubt, the reasons for which we have not been able to improve, and this is probably causing the greatest controversy in the public population, is that there are no specific conditions for receiving this benefit. The person himself determines whether or not he or she can afford such a benefit and submits an application. Here, of course, security is, first of all, something that will be printed into it, there will be a statement for it, so if a person lies, they will be threatened with appropriate sanctions. And the second thing is that, of course, verification of this and requiring various kinds of confirmations, additional questionnaires, etc. And there's still gonna be one survey to fill out, which could cause the cost of the whole operation to cost a lot more. And that's one of the conditions for this solution. But that's the solution that our legislator, counselor, talked about. It raises serious doubts because it can lead to various types of abuse. And here you have to consider two things. Because we know very well that. If a police officer asks us for a driver's license, we can declare that we have it at home. Of course, everyone can lie, say they do, and they really don't, but they take something like a citizen's statement. In addition, the address of the citizen will be placed Do I remember correctly, Minister? In the census, it will be possible to verify the names of persons who have applied for such a benefit. I don't know if I've explained all the doubts about this bill that have emerged, but I hope the most serious ones have. So that some of these issues have been resolved, i.e. as regards both the protests by entrepreneurs who believed that the Act did not comply with the principle of equality between economic operators and the doubts concerning the Polish Post. We have not been able to find a formula, how else to write, who is entitled to this benefit, so that the costs of checking this and the entire office apparatus are not too expensive. And yesterday, one of his colleagues said: why not give it to the ILOS and so on so that the ILOS do it? Well, let me be honest with you, I've been a self-government officer for years, and I can't imagine the ILOS doing this kind of operation so they can do it any more. It would certainly take a lot of work, and creating new institutions for this, which sometimes happened in various cases, doesn't seem reasonable either. Yeah, that's what I'm paying attention to. And one last thing I'm gonna say about it. Because, of course, there were also such voices and we talked about it at the committee meeting, that it was a handout, that it was given to people and why. I will say, as rapporteur, because I myself might have a different opinion, that the Minister, in response to such reservations, put forward an argument which may be convincing for some people. Well, first of all, let us remember that this applies to the poorest, and this applies to those who actually have the oldest television sets and the oldest decoders at the moment. These people may be completely surprised that suddenly it will stop working. Therefore, if they are given the opportunity, they will be able to simply use it. Because it is not their fault that the state or even the whole European Union has taken this step. The second argument is that there are countries in which such compensation has been decided, so that we are not the first. I think that... maybe there will be questions, and I'll answer some questions if you have doubts, if, of course, they're competent and if they're not, then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u177	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a much easier situation with regard to the presentation of the committee's report, because it is almost identical to the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. It just so happens that both committees were on trial at the same time, and the Minister was there, and here, sharing his presence for two committee meetings. I would like to say that Senator Zdrojewska presented the principles of the Act and its provisions in very detail, so I will just say what happened at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. Of course, in a casual conversation we talked about why they are only individual farms, not e.g. social care houses or schools, because of course the local government runs these units and the local government will have to cover the costs of changing the way of broadcasting. We also said that we need to help these people and we have no objections. about how to help those who are poorest and are far away from the information centre, without, of course, any comments that concerned the information itself. The Commission has adopted three amendments which dealt with the provisions of the Act in order to clarify it more clearly what these provisions are about. These 3 amendments are in line with the amendments of the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. So that, after a brief discussion, the Committee on Infrastructure adopts this law with 3 amendments as indicated by the Legislative Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator Rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. Question is, what senator? [[Senator Zdrojewska.]] You're welcome, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u180	Senator, I would ask you to bring the High House closer to what the committee's work was like. Because, as I understand it, After all, I took part in this meeting It is to be expected that there will still be a proposed amendment to this law at second reading. If the senator wanted to make a procedural statement about the findings of the sitting... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u181	Yeah, I'm explaining that now. In fact, I should have said this in the report, although I should have said honestly that my report only concerned committee meetings. But the fact that the amendments will still be there, we already knew during the committee meeting, because the Minister pointed it out. It was about making things legal, and we agreed to it. When it comes to amendments, because I'm not saying everyone liked the bill very much, let's not exaggerate. But the point is, we've made a deal about these amendments. And I forgot to tell you, and I should have said it. Because already during the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, it turned out that the Minister had changed his mind and accepted the amendments which had been tabled and rejected earlier in the Sejm. These amendments applied precisely to the fact that the entire bill concerned not only decoders, but also decoders, which are located in receivers. We were surprised by this change, but since it overlapped with the amendments tabled by the senators, we gave ourselves a little time to figure it out. I think that Senator Hamerski, who will make amendments during the debate, will cause us to meet again today at the cultural committee. But I'm telling you in advance that I've been informed of these amendments. They're about the same direction, but they're better sanded because today the Ministry worked with our Legislative Office. And we will propose some amendments to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u182	Thank you. Senator Jackowski. Okay, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u183	The senator's in the podium, so I'll ask the question right away. Namely, was there a speech at the committee meeting, what is the estimated general cost of this compensation or this bonus in the form of 100 PLN? And was there talk of parameters? And how much does one device cost to a citizen under this fund who will benefit from this bonus I don't want to say witness... Just how much does one such device cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u184	There you go. As for the amount that will be allocated to the entire operation, it will be known, because it is in the act But, attention, one of the changes we're proposing will be about this point. That's why maybe the fact that we've expanded it We don't know that right now, I mean, the ministry doesn't know that... But the fact that it was extended to these television sets Which doesn't increase the amount, but may increase the interest... There will therefore be an amendment which will not specify this amount as precisely as it was set out in the Act. But of course, it's very difficult... We understand that this is difficult to calculate. We don't really know how many people are gonna turn themselves in. etc. But it's normal and natural for the senators to want to know. And how much does a decoder cost right now, I'm not gonna say. I know that prices are very different, depending on the quality of this decoder. But now that you're here... Then perhaps the Minister will know how much the decoder costs. But it always does. - No matter how much it costs. The surcharge will be up to PLN 100. I would also like to draw attention to the very important thing why it was so important to include this. Well, somebody might think he's gonna make a bigger investment, buy that TV, but it's gonna get him a better picture. Because this solution proposed by the Ministry meant that people would buy new decoders, but on old TVs they would not achieve the possible image quality, sound, not to mention other possibilities. So that we found that this could also cause deep disappointment in some people. And that would be what I think it would be. Because they got on the decoder and this decoder didn't improve their reception quality at all, because quality can only improve a good television receiver. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u185	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs Senator, I would ask you to bring this part of the debate closer to the committee meeting, because he was very interesting, in my opinion, with the Minister's statement, which, in answer to my question, says that perhaps it should be so that this payment will be paid to any farm that will be forced, regardless of income, because it is so that someone has invested in the TV, has equipment, suddenly changes the rules of the market and the way in which they would like to use it, and the citizen must bear the costs for it, and this change is the result of state policy and systemic changes in the area of digital technology in general. [[Yes.]] [[Timer signal]] What was this discussion about at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u187	I don't remember exactly the whole story. I remember the senator actually asking about this case and the minister... But I don't recall the Minister saying that they're all going to get it. I think that's the only thing that could raise social concerns. If that's what you're asking, then... Of course, there are doubts. Because all the arguments that you're making impossible for a citizen, he bought his equipment in good faith some time ago, and now all of a sudden, this equipment doesn't work, so a citizen like that might resent you... But if we look at your expenditure globally, it is likely that there are more important and urgent expenditures. And the other thing you asked the senator about? [[No, it was one thing.]] Yes? Good. [[That's the one thing I asked you about. Then I'll ask the Minister.]] Yes, you can ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more questions to be asked. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Janusz Cieszyński like to present a bill? No. But now they may be, Minister, for your question. So I'd ask you here. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! One of the principles of good legislation is not surprising the consequences of the legislative proposals adopted, the surprise of citizens with consequences, the consequences of the laws adopted. So I have a question. Of course, by stressing that all public tributes as citizens should be paid. If average Kowalski applies for a fee of PLN 100 per decoder, will this result in checking whether he pays a radio-television subscription? And will this result, if he did not, of course, pay the decision to regulate both the outstanding and the current subscription? I would like citizens to be fully aware of the consequences from their point of view not only in the context of the payment of these 100 PLN... [[Timer signal]] ...but also in the context of checking their radio subscription regulations... Sorry, TV subscription.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u191	Thank you very much for this question. That's what I'm talking about. so that there is no doubt in such cases, in the case of laws where we are talking about processing personal data, we always state the purpose of this processing. And here this goal is clearly defined. It does not include investigative activities related to the RTV subscription, so that, Senator, do not be afraid. These data absolutely cannot be used for this. It is also worth noting that the scope of the data, i.e. personal data or the address of the check-in... In fact, contact details such as e-mail and telephone number are not, but as far as the address of the check-in is concerned, Polish Post already has access to these data under other laws. As in other cases, this access is for a specific purpose. The purpose you're talking about here is not in this bill. It's not. It's totally planned, too. If anyone did this, they would do an outrageous violation of the rules for the processing of personal data. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u192	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u193	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to deduct this time since I said it. I'll wait until the Minister is ready to hear my question. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Of course.]] [[Mr. Senator, time hasn't moved.]] I saw... Oh, yeah. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. How they shape up... Did you analyze the cost of these devices on the market when drawing up the bill? Is the amount of PLN 100 appropriate to the actual cost of the change? Because it is often a question not only of the decoder, but also of hiring a technique that will have to configure the antenna and maybe change some cable connections. So these costs can be much higher than the cost of the decoder itself. That's my first question. And the other one, I'm gonna run out of minutes. I'll be in in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u194	Mr. Senator, I'd suggest you ask all the questions next time, not... There's no warrant for you to ask after one question. That's what the minister's gonna do... [[It's not like you're gonna have that decoder.]] ...collective, quick response. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u195	Of course. As far as price of decoders are concerned, they range from tens to several hundred zlotys depending on what functions the decoder has. The basic one, which can only receive the signal in the new standard, costs from tens to about 100 PLN. It was the analysis of prices on the market that was the main reason for indicating the amount that was included in the Act. About the other costs... Of course, the senator rightly notes here that there may be situations where someone has to bear additional costs, but we must follow the principle of some proportionality of the solution and adequacy to the budgetary opportunities we have. In our view, the exchange of decoders for such a basic model meets the most urgent need in most cases, which simply prevents the loss of digital terrestrial signal from day to day. And that's why we decided to shape this amount at this level.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I tried to discipline myself because of this minute, not because I didn't ask a few questions. Now the second line. That's what I asked Senator Zdrojewska. If you would like to develop this thought, because it is interesting that, actually, by the decisions of the state, the administration, each of the citizens, regardless of their wealth, will bear the costs... Yes? Someone invested well in the equipment, used it, and suddenly conditions change. During the committee meeting, you expressed the thought that it might be worth considering whether everyone should be included in this kind of solution, because all of them will bear the costs. Not because of their fault, and not because they want some extra service. It's just access to the basic medium, which is television.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u198	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u199	As the senator pointed out, this change is forced. She is forced by European regulations, the aim of which is to implement the so-called process. Refarming, i.e. transferring digital terrestrial broadcasting to another frequency band in such a way as to release frequencies, e.g. in connection with the use of the Internet in the new 5G technology. It can be said that this is not a one-sided transaction, that it is not so that the State takes it for its own use, in the end it will be used by citizens. Polish citizens will benefit from the fact that access to the high-speed internet will be better. The rules on state aid, or, in fact, the ban on State aid, one of the fundamental principles of the common European market, in principle functioning, makes it impossible for us not to fall into a trap that, in order to help, we would expose Poland to some consequences within this common market... Let me remind you that a similar situation took place in Italy. A similar program was prepared there, but by its incorrect calibration it ended with penalties. Our program is addressed to the people who will declare such a declaration. That, for financial reasons, they are unable to finance the costs of the transition to this new, better standard of broadcasting on their own.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u200	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three different questions, I'll ask them in series. The first issue is a matter of limitation. The system's supposed to keep records for five years, and the statute of limitations on crimes like... Well, there were crimes involved, and the statute of limitations was five years. Can't you see the collision here? The data will be excavated from the system, deleted, and the statute of limitations will also... What then? How will it be documented that a possible crime has occurred? The second point concerning the statement by the person entitled to the fact that the material situation of the household of that person allows the cost of purchasing a television decoder to be borne by itself. Will this be checked in any way? Who's gonna have the authority to check it out? [[Timer signal]] In fact, anyone can write such a statement... Well, maybe it's about universality.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u202	Thank you, Senator. [[And the third...]] No, Mr. Senator. In the next round, you're gonna ask them. [[Good.]] You've crossed a minute. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u203	Dear Senator, as far as data retention is concerned, it seems that this deadline of 5 years is adequate. I'll add that this data could be kept even shorter. First of all, we should always be guided to keep all kinds of information about citizens as short as possible. Looking at it in reality, we can say that it is difficult in practice to imagine a situation in which in five years' time someone will take a new knowledge of the fact that... he will think that it is necessary to test the accuracy of such a statement. It just seems extremely unlikely. So that this design, which is proposed, I think is okay. With regard to the senator's second question and the question of the statement, as I have pointed out, the introduction of a social, social element here is a condition for such a mechanism. It works in such a way that we collect statements from citizens. We want it to be as simple as possible, generating as little extra bureaucracy as possible, paperwork. Here were the demands to introduce some statements of property status, some kind of verification. You, too, have been asking questions about this issue. I personally feel the same way as Senator Zdrojewska. However, we should follow the principle of trust in citizens and minimise this bureaucratic mark-up. We're also thinking about this issue that you raised, Senator Jackowski. It seems that from such a point of view, I would say justice, this benefit belongs to as many people as possible, and this construction is intended to serve to meet this demand, while, of course, maintaining the principle that it is the support only due to people whose material situation does not allow the acquisition of such equipment on their own.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u204	Thank you, Minister. Senator Czerwinski, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, one last question. There are actually two paths: electronic and, I'd call it, post office. Is this where the same data is collected?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u206	Yes. [[Are you sure?]] The only additional information will be the application from the post office. We'll have that information, too. [[Thank you...]] But as for the range of data collected from the citizen himself, he'll be the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u207	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Ewa Gawada, Ryszard Świlski, Beata Małecka-Libera, Viktor Durlak and Artur Dunin have submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jan Hamerski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications and the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on proceedings before administrative courts. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. The draft is included in print No 475 and the committee's report In print No 475 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The committees at their joint meeting on 10 February 2022 considered the draft law submitted by the applicants and requested the adoption without amendment of the attached draft law and the draft resolution. I would like to add that this project, if I remember correctly, was adopted unanimously by the committees. This is the implementation of a petition submitted by the citizens. This is quite important for us, because the implementation of citizens' petitions gives citizens the opportunity to influence the rights created. The bill is, as I said, the implementation of such a request, and the petitioner proposed to extend the regulation of the article. 69 of the Law of 30 August 2002 on proceedings before administrative courts. This is the possibility of serving in administrative proceedings to the mailbox. To date, the exact same solution has been introduced and exists in the Code of Civil Procedure and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. And this facilitation followed this petition, which concerns the possibility of the exact same solution in the Code of Administrative Procedure. With regard to the opinions on the project in question Which, I stress, has been adopted unanimously It is the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, having examined the proposal, that the proposed law should be adopted and that this is justified. The Act seeks to guarantee the rights of homeless persons who are parties to proceedings before administrative courts. The Minister of Justice did not comment on the draft and a representative of the Minister of Justice expressed his views on the draft during the committee meeting. The Association of Notaries of the Republic of Poland had no objections to this project. The Supreme Bar Council also supports the bill submitted. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court, i.e. to some extent, in addition to the citizens, the most interested person, wrote that, when summing up the conclusions and assumptions in this law, it should be pointed out that the solutions provided for in the bill under consideration will facilitate access to the court not only to homeless people but also to all those who for various reasons They cannot or do not want to receive correspondence at their place of residence. And something that is, to some extent, a laurel for the Senate: Finally, it should also be repeated that the project contains an exemplary impact assessment and does not contain provisions covered by European Union law. And here's a thank you to our Legislative Bureau. The President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data expressed his positive views on this project. Of course, our Legislature Bureau doesn't either. In agreement with the Ministry of Justice and at the request of the Polish Post after analysing this presentation and the work of our Legislative Office, amendments to the project were proposed to facilitate the functioning of the law. And once again, these are the amendments that were made by the Ministry of Justice, by our Legislative Office and Polish Post. And I'll put these amendments on the record in a minute. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u209	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to represent them. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I'm addressing Minister Michael Wosia. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal, one sentence, if you don't mind.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u210	I maintain the lack of objections to this project This is the position of the government. And in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, I will add that this is a very good bill and the correct direction of change. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u211	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed has submitted his statement to the minutes. For the sake of order, I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Pociej has tabled legislative amendments. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, I'll read it. I ask that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes against, we will assume that the application has been approved. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: No.]] No. In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Borusewicz requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no objections, so the motion has been accepted. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act. I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 489, and the committee's report In print No 489 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Lydia Staroń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to submit a report to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act On 13 September 2021, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to consider it at first reading. The committees at joint meetings on 17 November, 14 December last year and 10 February of this year discussed and amended this draft law at first reading. Now very briefly when it comes to the project. The draft law aims to reduce the burden on consumers of credit agreements and consumer loans by reducing the maximum off-set cost of consumer credit. Those recipes were already there. By virtue of the so-called. The specialities of 31 March 2020 significantly reduced the fees to be paid by consumers who conclude credit agreements for consumers. Unfortunately, the time-frame for the implementation of these provisions has been set and the date of their expiry has been set at the end of June 2021. In other words, since July last year there have been again extremely negative consumer rules, those resulting from the Law of 20 May 2011. The maximum amount of extra-interest credit costs is currently very high, even inhumane. According to the applicable non-remunerated provisions, credit costs per year amount to 55% the total amount of credit. Not much, the consumer, the borrower immediately pays 25%. So if someone goes to the company and wants to borrow, they'll pay 25% right away... 25%. That loan. Sometimes it's called margin, sometimes commission or at the expense of credit preparation, and in fact, in the opinion of these people, it's just usury. There's a lot of these names. It should also be borne in mind that the borrower will still pay interest fees, i.e. interest, in addition to these interest-free charges. Today they are 6,25%, the statutory ones. As far as the maximum is concerned, these are 12.5%. And the delay, which happens very often, is paid more than 8%, and if this applies to the maximum percentage, it is paid more than 16%. To set such a high level of the upper limit on the costs of loans leads to unjustified, I would say in general unjustified... These companies sometimes exploit the situation of the forced location of these people or the gullibility of these people. And let us remember that the clients of these companies are very often people in a difficult material situation, including the elderly, the infirm, often poor, looking for money for medicines, food, rent, fees. They often know that they won't pay it, they won't bear so much cost, they're actually just buying time, and the consequences are dramatic. We have a lot of cases where people like that lose their roof over their heads. Extra-interest costs are excessive, most often inadequate for the activities for which they have been charged. This is also confirmed by the courts when they consider payment cases relating to cash loans. The difficult economic situation of many families and the loss of income means that loans or loans are needed to save domestic budgets. The role of the state is to protect the weakest citizens from the consequences... of actually usury. The reduction of the maximum non-interest-bearing credit costs is all the more justified. This bill is needed as soon as possible. Every day she's gone, it's actually a day... when those costs are so high. And we know how difficult the situation in the labour market is, we know what the social situation is. The state should guarantee effective protection for citizens. With that in mind... This is already a matter of the project itself. The project is actually the same, maybe similar, the rules are similar to previous regulations. However, there were amendments that were introduced at the committee meeting. That was the third amendment. The authors of these amendments were me and was President Kazimierz Klein. They were voted out, and they were the same. In particular, these charges, the limit, the limit, were smaller. 90 days in respect of loans less than 90 days in respect of 5% If you're right now, you're going to pay 5%, too. And if it's beyond that limit, then it's gonna be, like, within a year... it depends on the time used by the person who takes that loan. Thus, it is the repayment period expressed in days. It was one amendment. The second amendment concerns vacathio legis. It was 14 days, and since there were reservations of the Supreme Court, there are 30 days when it comes to vacathio legis. And then there's the transitional provisions that aren't there today. There is such a change that the force will be in force from the moment of publication, of course, if there is this law, and I very much hope that it will be quick. So much for the amendments. Today there's still a limit that is 100% as regards the limit on non-interest-bearing credit costs throughout the loan period. Today it's 100% So maybe if someone takes a $10,000 loan, they'll have to pay back $20,000 for a year and a half. That kind of investment doesn't really exist. Then how else can it be defined than usury? Our proposal in this project is also a lot of the 45% But they're obviously less than that in a year, so that's the case. It's been years, not months. And actually the last thing that's changed too. This is a case that's been in the regulations before, so it's nothing new. This is the case, so to speak, the entity that gives these loans. The point is, it's not gonna happen anymore, so to speak, scale. If someone, the borrower, took a loan and unfortunately could not pay it back, then in a moment the companies would do so to give him further loans to pay off the first one. That's why it was, so to speak, a wave of debt. In order for this not to be the case, there is exactly the same provision as in previous legislation that these are the same interest-free charges as in the case of the first loan or loan and this applies to that entity or related entity. And these are actually the amendments that were in the project itself. You're welcome. I hope that it will actually be the law as soon as possible. That the Senate should simply adopt this draft law without amendment and adopt a resolution on bringing it to the Sejm, so that it will be in the Sejm as soon as possible. So that's what I'm asking. And one more sentence. As for what was at the committee's meetings, what were the opinions on this project... As far as the Financial Supervision Commission is concerned, there was no comment. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, there is no comment. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it stated that here the party is the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which was in favour. And that's why we changed that limit 45%. And the final one, so do the 30 days of vacathio legis. As far as financial companies are concerned, they weren't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Lydia Staron to represent them. Are there any questions? Oh, there it is. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, in the original project these maximum costs It wasn't 45%, extra-interest, of course, but 30%. Question: why was this increased? [[I'll tell you why...]] And the second question, too. Well, in my opinion, there is one danger in this changed article. 36a... I'll quote that. The interest-rate credit costs resulting from the consumer credit agreement do not fall in part above: the maximum non-interest-bearing credit costs calculated in the manner in which they are calculated are alternatively referred to in paragraph. One or two, depending on the length of repayment, and point 2, which is combined with the consistency of the "or', "45%'. the total amount of the loan. Aren't you afraid we're just gonna get 45% stiff here? the value of the loan at the same time or, in other words, a less favourable solution for the borrower?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u215	Thank you. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u216	I'll tell you what. Why 30? I personally felt that this should be 30 maximum, but because there was an amendment by the President to make it even higher... Yeah, I thought 30... But there's also the government's opinion, and that was 45%. , as before, the same was the opinion of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. I just wanted these regulations to be the law as soon as possible, so that they would be better. And second question. Here's what I'm going to say: this is the way it looks when it comes to these extra-interest costs, apart from interest, that if it were already legal, then the person who came to this company wouldn't be paying 25%, only 5%. And then depending on how many days this loan is... Up to 90 days is only 5%. That's it, period, there's no more. If there is more, it is already a matter of interest. But that's 45%. That's what I'm going to say, this limit is the highest, highest. It's not a year case, two, it'll be about seven years. Well, it's math. And in the case of today's laws, it's about two years, even less, because given the interest rate, it would be less. And yet you're asking for a form... Well, the form is, so to speak, the issue of the Legal Office, and it said it was correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u217	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Would a government representative like to take the floor on the draft submitted... [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. For the record, senator Alexander Swed... [[Voices from the room: No...]] No, no. ...Ryszard Świlski and Kazimierz Kleina submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. [[Senator Klein.]] You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u218	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask you to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u219	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Kleina has requested that the committees draw up an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. We proceed to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the bill amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on compulsory insurance, the Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers and the Act on judicial costs in civil matters. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 608, and the committee's report In print No 608 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am absolutely convinced that I will be presenting one of the most open projects to solve people's problems on behalf of the three joint committees. He's touching a sphere that... If you look at the current rules, you wonder very strongly how it could have happened that such rules were in force. On behalf of the 3 joint committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I would like to present to you a report on the draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Compulsory Insurance, the Insurance Fund for Guarantees and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters in Print No. 608. This is a senate legislative initiative. On 12 January 2022, the Senate Marshal referred this project to our 3 joint committees. The committees at their joint meeting on 10 February considered the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading and amended it. We have also considered introducing one more amendment, but it has finally been withdrawn and is not accepted. The opinion on the project at the meeting of the 3 joint committees was presented by Mr Izydor Jarzyński. We had a very broad discussion on the project. During the meeting representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Polish Insurance Association, the General Council of Lawyers, the Association of Damaged Aids in Accidents and Road Collisions, the Ombudsman's Office and, of course, the Office of the Legal Office of the Senate Office and the Commission for Financial Supervision took the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the essence of the project? The essence of the project is related to the problem of the investigation and payment of compensation, compensation and pensions for victims of road accidents and their nearest. In the current legal state, income tax-free compensation or compensation shall be granted where their amount or rules of determination are directly derived from separate provisions or from collective agreements or other provisions based on collective agreements, regulations and statutes, as well as compensation in the form of a pension received under civil law in the event of a personal injury or a health upset of the injured person if he has lost his or her full or partial ability to work for work or if his needs have increased or reduced his or her prospects of success for the future. This income tax exemption no longer applies to interest on compensation and compensation. And here I would like to remind you: we have tabled the same amendments to this legislative initiative already when we were working on amending the rules on road safety in the broad sense. And here I would like to inform you of very good news, because, indeed, our amendments in this respect are just paying the tax on expired, transmitted with a very long delay, e.g. as a result of long-term legal proceedings, damages... Unfortunately, either those who were injured or those close to the victims had to pay a tax on those lately transferred debts. And it is true that the Sejm rejected our amendment in this regard, but the same change as its essence the government reported to the Polish Government. It is of course not important to us who is the author of the project, but I am glad that as the Senate we have inspired the government to make good changes in this area. But unfortunately not all the problems have been solved, because we still have another problem, the problem of insurance companies delaying the payment of benefits and waiting for the conclusion of court proceedings, which last very often several years or even several years. I personally know cases of proceedings lasting several years. I could have read the records of one of those cases that lasted 19 years. Imagine a situation in which the victim of a communication accident with a very serious injury, qualifying for a pension, awaits almost 20 years to settle his case. Well, this is indeed an absolutely unacceptable situation, a situation which, from the point of view of all of us, the people who do their legislative duties on behalf of this country, needs to be changed as soon as possible. Because she undermines trust in the state, its institutions and the functioning of the justice system. Those situations where insurance companies delay payment of benefits and wait for legal proceedings to be terminated... They are doing so contrary to the explicit availability of the article. 817 civil code according to which the insurer is obliged to fulfil the benefit within the time limit, note 30 days from the date of receipt of the accident notification. Above the question of payment of compensation, the nature of the Article. 817 of the Civil Code indicates the case law of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court takes the view that the insurance undertaking responsible for the perpetrator of the civil liability communication accident shall be allowed to delay if it does not fulfil the benefit within 30 days from the date of notification of the accident. We are also dealing with another barrier, and it is extremely important. One of the most serious barriers that hinder or even prevent certain victims of traffic accidents from accessing the court is high court fees, which are often counted in tens of thousands of zlotys in the case of serious traffic accidents. Only persons who apply for a pension pursuant to the provisions of Article. 444 §2 or Article. 446 §2 of the Civil Code, or where such a claim is requested to be granted, shall be exempt from legal costs, but exemption from judicial costs in the case of that group of persons shall be an exception. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on judicial costs in civil matters, in matters of property rights, in the value of the subject matter of the dispute or the value of the subject matter of appeal more than PLN 20 000 shall be charged a relative fee of 5% this value, however, no more than 200 thousand PLN. The provisions of the Act indicate specific situations where, at the value of the subject matter of a dispute or of an appeal of more than PLN 20 000, instead of a comparative fee, a fixed fee of PLN 1 thousand is charged, but they do not concern actions for damages for personal injury or for the cause of a health disorder and for compensation for the damage suffered. Ladies and gentlemen, if a person, a victim who has suffered a very serious injury to his or her health, has made such a claim... Yes, sometimes it is a claim for high amounts. Why? Let us think that we are dealing with a person who, as a result of this incident, becomes a disabled person. Consider that this claim is made by a loved one who, as a result of such an event, lost her life and who was the sole breadwinner of the family. At present, the amount of the court fee is often a barrier which causes either such persons cannot make such a request, or that the extent of the claim with which they exist is inadequate for serious injury to their health, or that they count against the financial consequences of, for example, the loss of the only host in the financial family, but do not apply for the entire amount, only for part, because the matter of judicial costs is a barrier that prevents them from doing so. What do we propose in the Senate legislative initiative, which I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the joint committees? We recommend the following solutions. I have already mentioned the exemption from personal income tax, interest on compensation, compensation or pension granted to victims in the event of a communication accident or to the person closest to them. It is a good thing that the Polish Government has decided this for those matters that will now be settled. There is still a problem with pending cases or cases where such persons have paid this tax in the past. We also propose that we remove it from the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances of the final fragment, which, due to the indication that the determination of liability or the amount of compensation may take place in pending criminal or civil proceedings, in practice was used by insurance undertakings as a justification for delay in payment of the benefit. There is also a proposal to introduce a fixed fee, and I would like to draw your attention very strongly to this part of the initiative. In the amount of PLN 1 000 from actions for damages for damage to the body or for causing a health disorder and for compensation of money for the damage suffered following a crime against security in communication where the amount involved exceeds PLN 20,000, as well as exemption from the charge of the person in charge of the case for which the prosecutor has brought an action or has applied for the initiation of proceedings. I have no doubt that the expected effect of the regulation will be to support victims of crime, road accidents and their loved ones by facilitating their access to the court, speeding up the procedure for payment of compensation by insurance companies and, as I said, the smooth regulation of tax matters related to the provision received. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I would like to inform you that in a moment, after consulting the Legislative Office, I will submit 5 amendments to this project. In part, these are editorial amendments. One of these amendments is the implementation of the Supreme Court's request, and it concerns the fact that the charges against a prosecutor's lawsuit should not be charged to a natural person who will proceed with such proceedings... The point is not to charge those fees in such a situation. On the other hand, this fee can be collected from legal persons and organisational units We don't change that, we're interested in individuals. The other amendments will allow me to discuss at the committee meeting. I would like to ask you to take this initiative very warmly and cordially. I would also like to point out that this initiative at the joint meeting of the 3 committees was adopted by the votes of the ladies and senators of all the clubs and senate circles, for which I thank you very warmly and very warmly. At the same time, I ask for this legislative initiative to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Is the government representative... There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u222	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speech was a presentation in the form of a report by the joint committees. Now, allow me to make a statement on the issue that we regulate, and in a special way on the experiences that I have when I receive people who have unfortunately been affected by this tragic event, have themselves been affected by the consequences of a communication accident or have been affected by this situation by their loved ones. I have no doubt that for many of us in this room... You probably have people in your family circle or in the circle of your friends who have been affected by a traffic accident. Any one of us could be in this situation. There are tens of thousands of such people a year. Through this legislative initiative, we lean on those who have lost loved ones or become disabled in tragic events. Let's help them, it's our duty. And that's what the project we're working on here in the Senate today is for. I've talked to people like that. Ladies and gentlemen, when a person has the opportunity to have such conversations, e.g. with the mother of a child who, after a tragic accident, was in a vegetative state, with a mother who had to give up her job and take care of her daughter... Her shift at Kasi lasted 24 hours a day. She had to quit her job and take care of her daughter. Her shift, like I said, is 24/7. At night, this mother slept on a mattress spread out by the baby's crib and so that Kasia wouldn't get bedsores, get up every two hours and twist the body of the baby she loves. She had to feed her a probe, change her diapers, have something to pay for rehab and medication. Just like the whole family was waiting and believing that Kasia was gonna say that this wasn't gonna last forever. When Kasia was in an accident, she was a primary school kid, a wonderful, funny girl. Today she's a grown woman, she doesn't talk, she's paralyzed and sentenced to care for her family. Mrs. Aneta was another example of a young and happy married woman, and there was a small child in the family. A drunk driver killed her husband and father-in-law. She was left alone with her mother-in-law and her son without the means of normal life. Ladies and gentlemen, this woman had to answer her son's questions: when will Dad be back when Grandpa will be back? Similar Questions When Mommy gets back, when Daddy gets back Other people who have lost their loved ones in accidents are asked. We know about these most tragic events, for example. An accident near Stalowa Wola, children became orphans because both parents died. Let us not allow road accident victims to make a choice between paying bills and covering medical, care and rehabilitation costs. I was talking about these examples that I know, Kasi, Aneta, but there are hundreds of examples, and there are thousands of examples in our country. Let us draw out a helping hand to these people, show that we are in solidarity with them. In many cases this interhuman solidarity gives us strength in difficult events, but sometimes this Polish country through the legal system must demonstrate this solidarity. This project is a project of solidarity with victims and close victims of communication accidents. I have no doubt that this is one of the most important projects in this term of office. And I have no doubt that our sitting today is observed in detail by those who are in this tragic situation. I would like to thank all the social organisations involved in the preparation of this project very warmly and very warmly at this point. Thank you for your cooperation. First of all, I thank you for your testimony, how many unfortunately there are such cases on the national scale, and how many people still expect effective help in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably a shame to say that, in such a tragic situation, the state is trying to make money on these people. Because what are court costs? These are, of course, financial resources that affect the state budget. It is good that today these people will not have to pay tax on these compensations, but there is a whole group of people who have paid them in the past or have cases pending. A little embarrassed to say. And I'm saying this in general, and I'm not directing this absolutely to any political environment, because this regulation has worked for years. That the Polish state reached out to the widow for a penny. The Polish state reached out to people who were permanently disabled as a result of communication accidents. I can finally say one thing: I am absolutely convinced that today we will end this legislative period of shame and we will adopt a draft legislative initiative which ultimately closes this shameful card and goes against those whom fate has hurt so deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed... [[But still...]] Come on, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u224	Madam President, I would ask you to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u225	It should be Mrs. Marshal, but it's like this... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What did I say?]] Madam President. [[I'm sorry.]] We're already in plenary. So there are amendments tabled. Yes? [[Yes.]] I would like to inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. And in connection with the submission by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski of a request for the appointment of the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting... If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u226	Look out! Messages. The joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of the requests submitted at the Thirty-seventh Senate meeting of the Act on the Support of Households to bear the costs associated with the change of digital terrestrial broadcasting standard • print No 630 • will take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in session, in room 182. Joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies Senator's printing No 624 will take place today, 5 minutes after the adjournment of the session, in room 176. A joint meeting of 2 committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, will take place 10 minutes after the Senate's meeting is announced, on the examination of the proposals submitted to the draft law amending the law on administrative courts. This is senate print number 475. Next, a joint meeting of 3 committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will take place in the same room 20 minutes after the announcement of the break, on the examination of applications submitted to the draft Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Compulsory Insurance, the Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. 30 minutes after the adjournment is announced, a joint meeting of 2 committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will be held on the examination of the proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act No 489. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u227	Thank you for reading the announcements. I'm ordering a recess until 7:45 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 15 to 19 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u228	Please take your seats and silence the dialogues, because we are reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 9 and 10 March 2022. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. I would also like to remind you that tomorrow at 3 p.m. and perhaps half an hour earlier, a meeting will be held in the Senate plenary room with Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič in the form of a video conference with translators. Everyone will be provided with consecutive translation. We return to the consideration of the punt of the third agenda: the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski Print No 621 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator working remotely... Please pay attention to whether the signal is being sent. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If Senator Grzegorz Czelej can vote, see if the signal has been sent, we'll see... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If the signal's not coming through... Please report the results. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints Nos 622 A and 622 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? This time I'm gonna ask senator hare to see if the signal's been sent... Yeah, it's sent. Please report the results. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Committee on Health and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have put forward one-sounding draft resolutions in which they propose amendments to the Senate Print Act No 623 A and 623 B. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you authorize me to do so, I will not read the text, but give the number of amendments. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Health and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 624 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 13 are positively supported by the committees mentioned by your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u230	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Alicja Chybicka. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 8 and 11 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 56 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 14]] Attention, amendments 7 and 12 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 97 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Brejza, please see if the signal has been sent. There it is. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] We'll proceed to the vote... No, I'm sorry. Amendment 13. Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? This time, we'll ask Senator Golba to see if he sent a signal. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 99 were in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments - Senate prints Nos 633 A and 633 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 630 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u231	The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Infrastructure voted all the amendments and unanimously approved them. And that is a recommendation I have the pleasure of presenting to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u232	Do Senator Jan Hamerski or the other Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka still want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We are voting, therefore. . We are voting first on the amendments tabled and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 3 and 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 4. Let me remind you that its adoption will exclude the vote on Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. 99 for, no one was against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. 99 for, no one was against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. 99 for, no one was against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. 99 for, no one was against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. 95 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the support of households to bear the costs associated with changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on proceedings before administrative courts. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 475 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u233	Mr Marshal, we agreed that I would not be the rapporteur, but of course I can present a report. Unanimously... Excuse me. If I remember correctly, one senator held off. Nevertheless, the committees recommend adopting the amendment and adopting the whole project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand you won't want to speak as senator. Your opinion has been made clear. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur, and at the same time to the applicant, in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment tabled in print No 475 X and then on the adoption of the draft No 475 S, in full, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on proceedings before administrative courts and has adopted a resolution on bringing this draft law before the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this project. And that's it. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and obliged those committees to submit an additional report, which is in print No 489 X, at the current Senate meeting. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Lydia Staron, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u235	At the committee meeting, the amendment was withdrawn by the authors.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u236	Thank you very much. Would the other senators still like to speak? These were Senators Kazimierz Klein and Ryszard Świlski. If not, let me just remind you that Senator Lydia Staron was also the committee's rapporteur after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and to the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. I would remind you that Senators Kazimierz Klein and Ryszard Świlski withdrew their application in print No. 489 X. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. Since the amendment has been withdrawn, we are voting on the draft law in its entirety, which is presented in print No 489 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Lydia Staroń to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, but the amendment was withdrawn and no one supported it. [[Voice from the room: He didn't sustain...]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 were in favour, against no one, one held back. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Consumer Credit Act and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Lydia Staroń to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the bill amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on compulsory insurance, the Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers and the Act on judicial costs in civil matters. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged those committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 608 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u237	Mr Marshal, 3 joint committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, adopted all 6 amendments at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u238	Thank you very much. Would the senator still like to speak as senator of the applicant? [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur, and at the same time to the applicant, in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. The first vote will be taken on the amendments tabled in print No 608 X and then on the adoption of the draft No 608 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Attention, amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bogucki... Oh, he voted. Good. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I missed Amendment 4. We are voting on Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's holding back? Who's against it? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Świlski, please check... The voice's gone. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and has adopted a resolution on bringing this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u239	I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me read one statement, the other I submitted directly to the protocol. The declaration shall be addressed to the Minister for State Assets. For nearly a year now, the local authorities and residents of Poznań have been very concerned about the activities of Geophysics Toruń, which has been conducting a search for oil and gas on behalf of PGNiG in the district. The actions of Geophysics of Toruń have been causing a great outrage for months, as I wrote to PGNiG SA's chairman, Paweł Majewski, as early as July 2021. Unfortunately, despite assurances about maintaining the highest standards, Geophysics employees continue to deploy geophones, which are used to record seismic vibrations, in many cases without knowledge and without the permission of landowners. This applies to both municipal land and private property of construction land and agricultural land. Additional nuisance is the traveling and destruction of local ground roads, on which heavy cars move. Major protests have recently aroused events in Sierosław in the municipality of Tarnowo Podgórne. With the consent of the Constantine Forestry, 4 hectares of forest were cut to make drillings in the ground. It is worth noting that trees were cut out in one of the few green areas in the municipality, while informing that it is not known whether the extraction of gas in this place will occur at all. Let me stress once again: PGNiG, not knowing if a gas shot would be created here, decided to cut out nearly 4 hectares of forest. Currently Geophysics operates in the municipality of Buk, Dopiewo, Komorniki, Stęszew and Mosina. Private landowners find geophones on their parcels and fields, and after intervention with Geophysics employees they hear promises to sign a contract and pay 30 PLN for the installation of one sensor. Only that not only does no one with an appropriate agreement, which should be concluded before entering other people's territory, appear, but there is not yet any reaction to a situation where the owner does not consent to placing geophones on its territory. The bouldering issue was the illegal entry of Geophysics personnel into the protection zone of water capture in Krajków. This area belongs to Aquantet SA, which did not agree to carry out such studies. The water company also protested against PGNiG's research in the area of indirect protection of water capture supplying about one million inhabitants of the Poznań agglomeration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u241	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement to Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets, Mr Jack Sasin. Dear Mr. Vice Prime Minister, The billboard campaign of the Polish Power Plant, which aims to provide the public with information that for 60% Energy prices correspond to the European Union and EU climate policy. Campaigns have organised State Treasury companies whose task is not to assess the European Commission or the European Union, but to generate and supply energy. It should therefore be recognised that companies under the authority of the Minister spend public money on activities to which they have not been appointed. In addition, the information that is presented on billboards is false and can be presumed that their goal is to hide the real causes of high energy prices in Poland. Independent sources show that climate policy costs are around 23% Not 60% of the cost of energy. This is difficult to verify, because the Ministry of State Assets did not refer to this data, and only selected journalists with a ban on recording sound and image were allowed to attend the press conference on this action. It's a criminal act of restricting freedom of speech and breaking press law. It is even more dangerous to indicate climate policy as a task imposed on Poland by the European Union, whose only effect is to increase the cost of life of Poles. The grossness of such a message is the silence that the money from the climate tax in the amount of about PLN 25 billion a year goes to the Polish government and not to the European Union. It was the Polish government that decided that they were not devoted to greener and cheaper energy. As a result, we have the biggest mortality in Europe due to air pollution, which costs about 40,000 Poles a year to live. So I ask rhetorically: how much is the life of Poles worth when the government spends money on climate taxes for other purposes than the development of green energy sources? Now I ask the Minister to answer specific questions, not rhetorical questions. How much does a billboard campaign cost? How many billboards and for what period was hired for this campaign? Who's funding this campaign? If the Treasury companies do so, please tell us how the campaign relates to the tasks to which they have been appointed. Is the campaign conducted with the Minister's knowledge and consent? Has anybody from the Ministry of State Assets approved this campaign? Is the Minister against the killing of Poles smog? How much money has the Polish government spent since 2016 on the creation of green energy sources, and how does this apply to amounts obtained from climate taxes? Will the person responsible for providing false information be held accountable? Can we even identify the people responsible for this campaign? Why is media access limited to information about this campaign and will the Ministry draw conclusions from the criminal media policy of its subordinate companies? The campaign of Polish power plants is a classic example of the manipulation and indication of the European Union as a consequence of the failure of the Polish government. Minister, I am asking this question on the day on which the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed the decision to take Poland as the first country of EU funds. Do not place your hand on the threatening Polexite Poland. I ask you to intervene and draw all possible consequences from this disgraceful campaign so that the like will never appear again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u243	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. The pandemic has forced a large group of small and medium-sized enterprises to suspend their activities and many have been affected by bankruptcy. Suggested by the government so-called. In this case, the anti-crisis shields were supposed to be a shielding device to save the native companies from falling. Today, it turns out that a large group of entrepreneurs receive challenges to repay the full amount of aid received. Moreover, in order to appeal against such a decision on a judicial basis, they encounter further complications. As a result, successive shields that would help to overcome the crisis are now the source of a new crisis, often deeper than the one at the beginning of the pandemic. In view of such serious problems and new burdens that Polish companies have suffered with tax changes since January 2022, interest in the possibility of transferring business activity to the Czech Republic or Slovakia or the new registration of it in these countries is growing. A large group of companies is forced out of the country and forced to look for an alternative to the growing costs of running a business in Poland. According to experts from business advisory companies who help entrepreneurs to carry out this kind of transfer, the phenomenon grew already in mid 2021, when the initial assumptions of the Polish Deal were announced. Having to choose a stable and fair tax system in the neighbouring country, the transition to a grey zone or bankruptcy, an increasing number of companies will choose the first of these solutions and thus support the Czech taxes or the Slovak budget. In view of the situation described and the numerous notifications made by entrepreneurs who have faced such a dramatic choice, I expect answers to some fundamental questions. Does the government intend in any way to regulate the issue of unclear rules on aid to enterprises under the anti-crisis shields? When will a uniform and clear way of appeal be established for businesses affected by unclear rules? Does the government have any plan to stop the escape from Poland of small and medium-sized enterprises? The situation requires quick and effective solutions. I therefore also expect urgent reference to the issues raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u245	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński, and Mrs Elizabeth Witek, Marshal of the Polish Parliament. I will, of course, read the content of one statement. I make a statement on behalf of a group of senators, nearly 40 senators, including senators who haven't signed up, work remotely, but will sign. Dear Prime Minister, We below-signed senators strongly oppose the intention to pass on the priceless parchment code of 1486 to Hungary. Epistola de laudibus augustae bibliothecae atque libri quatuor versibus scripti eodem argumento ad serenissimum Mathiam Corvinum Panoniae regem A letter to the brightest Maciej Korwin, king of Pannonia, about the praises of the dignified library and the books of the four verses written on the same subject. This work is found in the collections of the Provincial Public Library of Copernican Books in Toruń. We oppose an attempt to expropriate a local government entity. The adoption of such a law will result in the collection of this priceless monument of the cultural institution of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which is the Public Library Kopernikańska Princess in Toruń, and handing it over to the State Treasury. This is a clear attack on the standards of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in particular its Article. 6 and Article 6 Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. This is intended to circumvent Chapter 5 of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments of 23 July 2003 and is in clear contradiction with the Polish State's policy towards cultural goods, and in particular with the Act of 25 May 2017 on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. We expect the legislative initiative of 2 February 2022, EW-020-791/22 to be withdrawn from the legislative process. The bill provides for the acquisition of a valuable work from the collection of the Kopernika Prince for the Treasury and a free transfer to Hungary, while at the same time compensating the owner of the damage caused by the loss of PLN 25 million. Due to the unique and priceless character of the work, any declared amount will in no way compensate for the loss suffered for the Polish cultural heritage. We propose to give the Hungarian brothers a reprint of this work. Here they are, Mr. Marshal, the signatures of 36 senators. I'm making this statement to the record, to the hands of the marshal and the secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u247	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make two statements. One is addressed to the Minister of Education and Science and the other is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. These are statements of the same content, signed by 13 senators, members of the Senate Polish-German Group. They relate to a regulation issued on 4 February reducing the German minority's hourly dimension of teaching the minority language from 3 hours to 1. I would also like to remind you that we voted in the Senate to bring back almost 40 million to teach the languages of national and ethnic minorities. Unfortunately, this amendment did not obtain a majority in the Seym. Therefore, it is not enough that part of the general subsidy for learning these languages has been taken away, but it is now proposed to reduce the hourly dimension of German language teaching. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My intervention is addressed to Minister Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, and Andrzej Bittel responsible for the exclusion of transport, as well as to Rafał Weber responsible for the development fund for bus transport. The Act on public collective transport, as well as the Act on the Development Fund for Bus Transport, was intended to reduce communication exclusion, but led to pathology. In order to explain this, I need to present a little story, which is how it started. The amount of funding and ease of acquisition by the transferor, followed by the public collective transport operator with whom the service contract was concluded, has triggered a wave of requests, often different from the actual realities and needs of the local government units. There was a 400-percent increase in transport work compared to the previous year, which triggered a mechanism for the acquisition of potential operators and the acquisition of the services market by the operators concerned, for example offering. cooperation, organisation, advice, cooperation on obtaining funding from the Bus Development Fund, which through the mechanisms of the Public Collective Transport Act, such as the procedures for the direct conclusion of the contract, enabled them to receive a contract with the exclusion of competing companies operating on this market. The point is that small local companies have been excluded, and nationwide players have just begun to take over the lines. However, the passenger did not gain this because the exclusion of communication has grown to 16 million people in Poland at the moment. These people without their car, they can't get to work, they can't get to school, they can't get to a doctor, etc. While the formula for the award of the contract under the Public Collective Transport Act itself may raise formal legal doubts, the accompanying frequent deficiencies in the organiser's activities may undermine his authorisation to carry out the operation, i.e. the right to receive subsidies under the Bus Development Fund. In many cases, rather than promoting the reconstruction of communication networks in areas at risk of transport exclusion, the Fund is only an additional source of funding for existing viable lines. Organisers, when applying for funding for non-profit carriages without awareness of their obligations under the function, often rely on simplified schemes submitted to them and focus only on obtaining funding. They commit numerous shortcomings affecting the applicable legal order, including: the absence of the required resolutions of the body governing the organisation of transport, starting with the proper definition of transport stops, the definition of lines of general interest, the determination of tariffs, maximum prices or the rules of order; infringements of the competence of organised transport, e.g. municipal transport covers urban areas, the organisation of transport outside their jurisdiction; shortcomings and substantive errors in contracts concluded with operators, e.g. transfer of operator's responsibilities, request for reimbursement of discounts directly to the Marshal of the voivodship, excluding the organizer on the basis of simultaneous permits; lack of publication of publicly available timetables on the organizer's website; lack of identification of vehicles operating on public utility lines, which enable passengers to clearly identify the connections made. These issues are not subject to verification at the stage of the application for aid from the Bus Development Fund, which may result in a challenge of the legality of the transport arrangements and the acquisition of undue subsidies. The extension of the codified verification mechanisms by the authorities of the voivodships also includes formal issues related to the organisation of transport, greater transparency, and the social availability of this information could contribute to reducing the errors and abuses arising from this. Bypassing the obligation to verify the correctness of requests by public transport operators concerning the refund of losses incurred in respect of the recognition of passengers' statutory allowances from specialised bodies, marshals' offices, various levels of organisers, local government units... This is an important threat to the complexity and the necessary diligence of this control. The system of selling tickets in bus transport, excluding urban transport, is based on nearly 95% of the equipment and software of the same suppliers, which makes it possible to make available in electronic form complete databases of the sales and transport work carried out. In part of the marshal's offices there is a complementary analytical system, allowing on the basis of the data received to verify each ticket, its price, the discount applied, etc. The review mechanism covers all sales and guarantees a high level of control of public spending. In the current situation, where the competent organiser of the local government unit checks the applications and documents submitted by the operator on the basis of the calculation of compensation, it usually does not have adequate equipment with control tools, which does not guarantee an appropriate level of control and opens the area for fraud and fraud. In view of the avalanche increase in the number of organisers, the increase in the use of analytical systems is disproportionately low. Only single copies arrived outside the marshal's offices. The examination of ticket sales data by statistical methods based on cut-off data collections cannot be 100% effective, especially with large sales volumes. Some irregularities cannot be determined in any way by these methods. Even without promoting any specific solution, it appears that the obligation of the organisers and, consequently, operators to collect and verify the data on the basis of which applications and compensation are formulated, in digital form, in a common format, allowing for further checks, could contribute to the sealing of the payment scheme in this respect. The present state is a step backwards in relation to what was still functioning correctly in previous years. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I mean, that's what I was headed to the Minister of Infrastructure. It's coming to pathology, the contract has been extended, but the pathology will spread. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u251	Thank you, Senator. I would like to make a statement to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm making two statements. I'm gonna put them in writing, and I'm just gonna tell you what they're about. One of my statements is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the Minister of State Assets, the Minister of Climate and Environment and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And this is the effect of a letter that I received from local government officials who were concentrated in the association of Lower Silesia, the Joint Case from my region. This letter and specific questions concern the conclusion of negotiations with the Government of the Czech Republic and the further operation of the Turów mines and power plants, but also the compensation package which our government and PGE have to pay to the Czech party. There are specific questions, which is why I am making a statement to these individual ministers and I ask you to answer these questions. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, and it concerns the Specialist Hospital. Dr. Alfred Sokołowski in Wałbrzych. Let me just remind you that since last year, since August 2021, since the political decision was cancelled, the director, who for more than 15 years was the director of this hospital, began to... This was the beginning of this hospital's disaster. And after six months of running by a political person, right now our hospital is in a catastrophic state. Therefore, together with Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Mr Tomasz Semoniak, we reported irregularities to the prosecution. There were probably doctors on duty who hadn't worked in the hospital for months. There were probably also certified irregularities related to the settlement with the National Health Fund. And that report to the D.A.'s office was filed. We also know that families of patients who, unfortunately, have not been properly taken care of in our hospital also report to the prosecutor's office. We've had a new head of the hospital since yesterday. There's little hope that maybe it'll be someone who'll start running this hospital professionally. That is why it is a request to the Minister to keep an eye on the case and give us all the support we can. The manager is, of course, the Marshal's office, but the point is for the Minister to look at this situation and to support us in order for the hospital to be able to function professionally again so that people who were experienced will return . Doctors and medical staff They are competent and professional in order for the hospital to function again. That is why our request to the Minister is to look at this situation and simply support us in our efforts so that the hospital can function normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u253	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u254	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your vote. High Izbo! As usual, I make my statement on behalf of patients. Another group of patients wrote a request for help. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. To be honest, it's horrible that we haven't worked out a system for so long. And that is also the prime question to the minister: why is this happening? Now maybe I'll tell you the details. I was written by the Polish Amazon Society Social Movement, which has been taking action for many years in favour of oncology patients and is asking for an intervention in the case of mantle cell lymphoma, which is a disease of the lymphatic system which constitutes approx. all lymphoma. Every year this cancer is recognized in about 300 people. It is an aggressive disease. The median survival is between 5 and 6 years, but some patients do not survive even 6 months after the diagnosis. A characteristic feature of this disease are also frequent relapses and developing resistance to treatment significantly hindering the effective fight against the disease. Treatment of resistant and recurrent mantle cell lymphoma has been mentioned by clinical experts for many years as one of the priority needs in the area of haematology. This issue was included, among others. at the top of last year's compilation of the 10 Hemato Hemop 10 presenting the most urgent challenges in the treatment of blood cancers. However, despite numerous appeals made by a national consultant, Professor Ewa Lech-Marañda, doctors still do not have the possibility to offer adequate public treatment to the sick. Unfortunately, there is no indication that this situation will change, since the Ministry of Health has recently issued a negative reimbursement decision for one of the treatments used in the treatment of Ibrutinib MCL. Currently, as our producer has informed, an appeal procedure is underway in this regard. This is a therapy recommended by European and American scientific societies as the basis for treatment in the vast majority of European countries. Meanwhile, Polish patients with mantle cell lymphoma who have relapsed or developed resistance to treatment are basically deprived of access to any therapeutic option, and this condemns them to suffering and imminent death. Therefore, I address the Minister on behalf of these sick people, and there is much more of this type of sick in Poland. Minister, when can these patients with resistant recurrent mantle cell lymphoma expect access to modern and effective therapy? Why has the Ministry of Health not so far provided Polish lymphoma patients with cloak cells with access to the necessary treatment? What are the Ministry's priorities for increasing the availability of medicines in haematological diseases at the moment? I'd like to say that I had a similar situation with my children. I received a negative opinion from the Medical Technology Assessment Agency on the treatment with CAR-T cells, which said that I had to use a different method of therapy. But on the other side, just like in the case of the sick, there was only death... I think it's time for this kind of sick person to come to his aid and not write those negative opinions because it's either life or death for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-16-senat-37-1.u255	Thank you, Senator. That was the last statement I made. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 20 minutes 56]]
