ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u1	Resume session. I will appoint Marta Kubiak, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers, as secretary of today's proceedings. Madam Secretary, there are no messages. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the quorum. We'll wait another second to deliver the report, but it'll be here any minute. I ask you, Members, to press any button to confirm the presence of the Sejm. The meeting shall be attended by 446 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. We have two formal applications. Please, Mr Paweł Beida. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. This is Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u2	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment's time, a very important vote, another chance for you to prove that the bill that we have dealt with and supported together is not for you to hide all the irregularities that have happened over the past years. [[Voice from the hall: Man, come to your senses.]] The ventilators, the masks, even the PCK containers weren't safe with you. And now, in a situation of human tragedy, you're trying to put impunity for power here. Some of your fellow Members have proved decent because the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration has supported the Senate amendment. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] You, on the other hand, are trying to guarantee impunity by force, with the stubbornness of the maniac. I am appealing for elementary decency, for such a look in the mirror and to say to yourself whether you are honest enough to do without this amendment. Do you really need permission to steal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u3	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u4	No, you don't have to. There's no license to steal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u5	Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. Minister Łukasz Schreiber. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! When Mr President entered this bleacher, I thought you would like to apologize. This is an apology for the vote of its colleagues in the European Parliament in favour of a resolution that strikes Poland. [[Applause]] [[Traitors, traitors!]] I thought that if you did not apologize, at least the President would like to explain to the High House why we are voting today on this important bill, as you yourself said, on helping refugees, and we did not vote yesterday. [[Because you want to steal with impunity.]] [[Don't judge others by yourself.]] Well, maybe not everyone knows that, but yesterday the Platform senators forgot to make this amendment, so they played the whole circus and had to start working in the Senate at night. Yeah, well, congratulations. And as far as this case is concerned, I think you're aware of the fact that he's speaking completely untruthful here, not to say much more harshly. Well, I would like to draw attention to three things. It's not true what you said, it's supposed to guarantee some kind of impunity, etc. Let's think about it and look at the provisions of this bill. In order to benefit from this at all, it is not only necessary to continue this tragic war situation in Ukraine, but also to meet at least one of the three basic conditions. One needs to be guided, many people need to be saved, or public safety is protected, or cultural goods of particular importance are protected. And now on. It is not that each of these matters is governed by Article. 231, because you're particularly interested in public officials, you want them out of court. No. Because, as I said, § 2 does not apply. Thus, taking advantage of personal or property benefits is excluded. And that's also what you need to say, High Izbo. [[Ziobro's got you by the throat anyway.]] And now it's the most important thing. Why was this really introduced? I spoke at first reading about the fact that it is written there, that this applies in particular to local workers appointed on the basis of a choice. At the time, you said they were fairy tales. But on the same day, the court in Wielkopolska convicted who? The court sentenced not the minister, not any of the Members, but the governor. Wójta gmina Wapno was convicted of the fact that acting in good faith, following the guidelines, he handed over the case to Poczta Poczta, handed over data which were intended to help organize elections and ensure constitutional continuity. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[70 million PLN.]] Yes. And this is a situation in which not this general or all the self-governments who have acted this way should be punished today. It would be so if the Constitution and the courts were actually in force in Poland. And it is, High Izbo, isn't it? Of course, you don't care because it won't concern you. Because it's your job to come out here, perform with such an oration, then go to a friendly TV show and send a tweet at the end of the day. However, I have such a question for you, and with this question each voter must face: What recommendation will he give to his uncle, mayor or president in a situation where he will be obliged to do something, and this article will not apply? [[We don't make that recommendation, unlike you.]] What's he gonna do? Then you'll recommend inaction. Or something that might put him in danger of being held accountable in such a court of law? [[Just don't steal.]] So, High Izbo, I would advise and really appeal not to duplicate the absurd here, too, so that we can adopt this law in a much better atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u7	Thank you. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory, print No 2084. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Assistance for citizens of Ukraine in connection with the armed conflict in its territory (Prints No 2083 and 2084). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory, print No 2083. On 12 March 2022, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 12 March 2022, proposes that the 60 amendments tabled by the Senate should be rejected and 17 amendments adopted. Except that the reservations are as follows: Amendments 3, 33, 35 must be voted jointly, then amendments 4 and 54 together, over 6 and 36 in total, over 18 and 19 in total, over 42 and 43. - also the joint vote on Amendments 45, 46, 50 and 53 - the joint and final vote on Amendments 49, 57 and 60. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u9	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. We are voting on Amendment 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 242, 213 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 213 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment with which amendments 33 and 35. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 3, 33 and 35? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 238 - for, 216 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th amendment with which Amendment 54 is combined. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 4 and 54? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 242 - for, 214 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 302 for, 153 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment, with which Amendment 36. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who is against Amendments 6 and 36? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. Two for, against -451, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 7th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 2 for, 453 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, 452 against, no one stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 9th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was against 454, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Two for, 452 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was against-- 457, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who among you is against the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 243 - for, 214 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who among you is against the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. Two for, 452 against, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 240 for, 190 against, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 15th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 15th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 4 for, against - 453, no one stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 16th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 16th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 243 for, 170 against, 42 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 242 - for, 213 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 18th amendment with which Amendment 19. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who's in favour of rejecting Amendments 18 and 19? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on Amendment 20. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 215 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 21. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 21st Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 243 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 22. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 22nd Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 241 - for, 214 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 23. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 23rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 242 - for, 213 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 24th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 24th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 241 - for, 214 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 25th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 243 - for, 214 - against, no one held back. The Senate amendment rejected. We vote on the 26th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 26th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 213 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 27. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 245 - for, 209 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 28. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 28th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 14 for, against - 440, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 29th Senate amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We vote on the 30th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 30th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 241 - for, 211 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 31st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 31st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 241 - for, 212 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 32nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 32nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 242-- for, 211-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 34th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 34th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 12 - for, 439 - against, no one abstained. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 37th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 37th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 243 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 38. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 38th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Twelve for, 440 against, no one stopped. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 39th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 39th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 241 - for, 213 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 40th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Who's against the 40th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 241 - for, 213 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 41st Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 41st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 42, with which Amendment 43. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 42nd and 43rd? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 243-- for, 211-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on Amendment 44. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 44th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 241 - for, 213 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on Amendment 45, which brings together Amendments 46, 50 and 53. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is against amendments 45, 46, 50 and 53? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 240 - for, 146 - against, 69 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 47th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 47th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 240 for, 214 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 48th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 48th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 231 - for, 216 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 49th amendment with which amendments 57 and 60 are combined. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is against Amendments 49, 57 and 60? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 214, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on Amendment 51. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 51st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Communist.]] [[Thieves in favor.]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors against.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] 456 Members voted. 228 - for, 227 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There it is!]] We are voting on the 52nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 52nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 238 - for, 214 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 55th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 55th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 13 - for, against - 441, no one held back. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 56th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the 56th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 63 for, 388 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 58th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the 58th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232-- for, 221-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 59th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's rejecting the 59th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Two for, against, 450, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[You're gonna be sitting down.]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 42 hours 11 min 44]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u10	I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to get back to a topic that couldn't have sounded like February 24th. I wanted to take the floor at the time, but for obvious reasons I couldn't. On February 24, we will remember forever as the day of Russia's disgrace and the start of its brutal aggression against Ukraine. Unfortunately, the subject I wanted to take may be more and more up-to-date. February 23rd is International Day for Combating Depression. According to WHO, it is the fourth most serious disease in the world and one of the main causes of suicide. In Poland almost 8,000 patients are treated for depression. children and adolescents. There's no record of how many people aren't being treated. It's hard for me to talk about it, because I'm getting information about these facts, too, and it's from people I know. The Pandemic also contributed to this, because about 44% Teenagers have symptoms of depression. The impact of COVID is huge, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. Even before the pandemic, too many children were burdened with mental problems, unfortunately neglected by the state. Governments, I am not just talking about the current one, and the previous ones are not investing enough resources to take this issue seriously. On average, only 2% money for healthcare is used to solve mental health problems. This has to change, because I'm afraid it's gonna get worse. According to UNICEF, almost 46 thousand a year. teens commit suicide caused by mental disorders. Hence my hot appeal to the government not to wait, because mental illness will become more difficult to overcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll only add one sentence. We also hear that this burden also applies to children coming to us from Ukraine, so this is a great task to do, very difficult. But we have to do it. I strongly appeal for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u12	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point I wanted to address the prime minister of the government and representatives of state authorities in the field, which are the voivodships, in two important matters today. The first case is the passport boom. Passport departments can't handle citizens. You have to wait up to a month for your passport, and phone calls to passport offices are very often ineffective. You can't book a term even on the Internet. I would very much ask for the intervention of the Prime Minister in this matter and special attention of the voivodships to this problem in individual voivodships. At the same time, I would ask for the support of the voivodships, which are subject to individual PKP stations, where refugees from Ukraine are located, to further intensify their efforts and to support volunteers and volunteers who directly help refugees from Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u14	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to respectfully address all the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and other villages of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, who hastened to help Ukrainian citizens presently in their homeland, as well as those who, fleeing from their death, reached the Kujaw and Pomerania region. The aid action in Bydgoszcz and its surroundings is extensive. Tomorrow, March 13th, at 10:00 p.m. The 13th royal city of Bydgoszcz invites everyone to the Mill Island and to the Rother Mills for a charity concert for Ukraine under the motto: "We are with you! ¿, Bydgoszcz for Ukraine." All performers at this concert will play for free, the organizers for preparing the event also do not take any zloty. Targets are two. First of all, it is a help to our Ukrainian friends who, fleeing from the war, went to Bydgoszcz. Refugees during the event will be able to consult doctors, lawyers or representatives of the work agency who will answer the question of where to treat, to which office to go to obtain financial support to meet the specific needs of the family concerned. Volunteers will answer these and other questions. The second goal is to raise money for the future of Ukrainian families, which from day to day became our neighbours not from the country next door, but from the room next door. From here, I'd like your support for the fundraiser and your presence at the concert. Together, the Bydgoszczians want to create an aid fund for Ukrainian families. During the concert you will be able to deposit money in a can of volunteers. There will also be assistance points on the island for Ukrainian citizens. Right next door will be volunteers ready to take care of the children. On-site doctors and nurses will be ready to provide medical advice, as well as lawyers and representatives of the office and employment agencies with job offers. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! We're with you. Tomorrow a beautiful concert ¿Bydgoszcz for Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! Bydgoszcz thanks everyone beautifully for opening his heart with this concert. Because now Rzeczpospolita Polska and Ukraine, two countries, the same heart. Poland and Ukraine are now one big family. Kiev, Warsaw - a common matter. Tomorrow, Bydgoszcz for Ukraine, 10 a.m. 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u16	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about Polish foreign policy in the context of the war in Ukraine. These are very difficult days for our Ukrainian neighbours, as well as for us and other European nations. Russian aggression can be resisted in many ways, but what we can do is an effective foreign policy showing the true face of Vladimir Putin. Poland is carrying out a powerful diplomatic mission. Western countries have slowly begun to speak with our voice, but we must go further. From the very beginning, Poland has been putting hard sanctions on Russia. However, much more can be done. The most severe sanction for the Kremlin will be independence from Russia's energy policy. I sincerely hope that Germany will change its mind about Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, which for years have been feeding the Russian budget and allowing today's barbaric military attacks. That's, among other things. This money caused Russian soldiers to conquer Ukraine by committing genocide, rape, and acts of terror. That is why it is so important for Europe to speak with one voice. Today Ukraine, tomorrow Lithuania and the day after Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u18	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 1st, we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance for the Soldiers of the Cursed, a celebration commemorating the soldiers of the underworld of independence, anti-communist and anti-Soviet. The legislative initiative, which is worth remembering and reminding, was taken by President Lech Kaczyński. March 1 is the date proposed by the president of the IPN Janusz Kurtyka in relation to the death penalty in the Mokotow prison executed that day - the death penalty on seven members of the Freedom and Independence Association. In the fights of independence underground with communist power, about 9 thousand died. conspirators. Another few thousand were murdered as a result of phony trials, many died in UB catholics. Yeah, the story kept quiet about them for a long time because they lived by the law of the wolf. Ten years ago, a group of enthusiasts and social activists organized the Wolf's Trop. The Run of the Memory of the Soldiers of the Cursed. Today, the Freedom and Democracy Foundation is the organizer of Poland's largest memory run. They pay tribute to the steadfast organizers, but above all thousands of runners, who share a common idea - a run for memory. The action is accompanied by events with giving the most valuable gift - blood or collections such as collections in the current year Mon. We will run, Ukraine, with help. Dęblin, Firlej, Jabłonna, Lublin, Łuków, Opole Lubelskie, Puławy, Sobieszyn, Stanin or Świderki are only some of the villages of the Lublin Voivodeship in which the 10th anniversary run took place. I am proud to be able to participate, together with young uniformed classes from Sobieszyn's school team. In this area, Major Marian Bernaciak was hiding and fighting. In the Lublin region, Józef Franczak died in 1963. Therefore, the race is symbolic 1963 m. The arched land is an area of underground activity of Anthony Dołęga. He never came out, never gave up, hidden and supported by the local community, in particular the community of the municipality of Trzebieszów. He died literally with a gun at his feet in 1982. He's the longest hiding soldier of anti-communist independence conspiracy. He deserves to be the main character (the bell) of the next long run. Like Inka and many others, he behaved in the right way. Hello their memory! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u20	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement, I would like to draw attention to the extraordinary kindness, nobility and sensitivity to the fate of the other person who was napping in the Polish nation, which appeared at the time of the attack of the Russian Federation on Ukraine and the uprising in connection with this fact of a 1.5 million-million-dollar wave of refugees which reached us. This situation has shown huge amounts of extraordinary goodness, ability to sacrifice and empathy of Polish society, and proof of this is that, apart from state, local and ecclesiastical institutions and numerous charitable organizations providing assistance, so many people in our country have spontaneously engaged in this assistance. The Poles, sharing material goods, unselfishly opened their homes to the needy, providing not only shelter but also a decent life. They devote their time, energy and work by offering various, broad support, sharing knowledge and ordinary human kindness, as the whole world has observed and appreciated. This noble attitude of many Poles encourages us to imitate, teaches the young generation the right attitudes, makes us proud and makes us reflect. I think it is a great honor to live, work and live among such wonderful people as our fellow countrymen, who we can without hesitation call the heroes of this difficult time worthy of great respect and appreciation. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Such reflections came to my mind and I decided to share them with you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For more than two weeks now, we have been facing a huge tragedy that has affected our immediate neighbours. There has been a war in Ukraine for 17 days. From this point on, I declare my solidarity with the Ukrainian people and express my gratitude to the people of good will. We Poles stood at the height of the task. We didn't fail because in times of crisis, we never fail. I would like to thank all those who have engaged in direct help, have opened their hearts and homes, shared and shared the help that is so much needed today. I would like to thank the local authorities, who are on the first line of this crisis, especially those from border areas: the President and Vice-President of Przemyśl Wojciech Bakun and Bogusław Nowy and the Mayor of Ustrzyk Dolne Bartosz Romowicz. At a time when government crisis management in our country does not function, they stand at the level of the task, a difficult task, complicated task, which they perfectly manage. I would like to thank the President of the City of Krosna, Piotr Przytocki, and local government officials from remote municipalities, who have provided assistance to refugees, especially the Commune of Lipka Przemysław Kurdziece and the Mayor of the Commune of Krajenka Stefan Kiteli. The family of local government officials, entrepreneurs, volunteers, volunteer firefighters and people of good will who are not indifferent to this tragedy is huge. It's too big to name anybody here. I'd trade it till tonight. And that's our happiness, because thanks to these people, we can have a sense of real help from our neighbours across the eastern border. I bow to you and thank you very much for your sensitivity. For more than 2 weeks, Europe has been giving a human exam and I am convinced that we Poles have passed this exam at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Russia's attack on Ukraine is another act of aggression of the current Russian authorities, whose aim is to rebuild the state's power position after the collapse of the Soviet Union. A dozen years ago, the Russian forces attacked Georgia. In 2014, the annexation of Crimea took place. Russia has supported and supported separatist forces in Donbasa. In this situation, it is worth mentioning the words of President Lech Kaczyński, who said in Georgia in 2008: Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then the time may come for my country, for Poland. These words briefly describe Russian plans for the restoration of the empire. These plans were, are and will be understandable and visible to the majority of Eastern Europeans, and they will certainly be terrifying to the citizens of the countries that were part of the Soviet Union in the past. I am referring here to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, as well as to Moldova, which, once Ukraine is under control, can become the target of another attack by Russia. Unfortunately, few politicians in Western European countries see and understand these plans. And even if they see these plans, they cynically pretend not to see, because the particular and short-term interest of politicians in these countries is to trade with Russia. The result is that these countries are not only dependent on the supply of energy from Russia themselves, but are still trying to make other EU countries dependent on gas from Russia. Germany is a clinical example of such a policy. Companies from this country, in agreement with Russian Gazprom, built two pipelines linking Russia and Germany at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. According to these plans, Germany was to become an intermediary for the sale of Russian gas to other European countries. So it was not only Russia, but also Germany that was supposed to make money on this cooperation. But in order for this to be low, Germany, under the cloak of energy transformation, began imposing solutions on Europe, which would soon lead to the fact that other countries, among others. Poland, will move away from coal as energy sources. Germany has also tried as part of the energy transition to ensure that Europe's countries would not only give up coal but also nuclear energy. The fight against climate change has therefore become an excuse for Europe to be dependent on Russian gas, which would be delivered to Europe through Germany. Many European Union politicians were employed by Russian Gazprom, such as Mr Gerhard Schröeder, former German chancellor after the completion of their public duties. Today, in the days of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russia and Germany's plans are visible, and only the politicians of some countries of the European Union are not able to see these dependencies. It must be made clear that what the Germans call energyewende (The Bell), or energy transformation, is the biggest fraud since so-called times. privatisation in Poland. Either the European Union will be independent of Russian gas, or the European Union will not be independent at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u27	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While the brave Ukrainian people die for European values, the Constitutional Tribunal, some say - PiSu, others - the mgr Przyłębska, others - pseudo-tribunal, issued a judgment on the incompatibility of the human rights convention with the Polish constitution. It's shocking because this sentence is pushing us out of the Union. Don't you see the war behind the windows, the 1.5 million refugees? You see, you're just jumping to a completely different conclusion. For you, this means allowing us out of the legal system of the Union. Who gave you the right to do that? How many percent of Poles and Poles are in favour of leaving Poland from the Union? Yesterday, this Sejm passed the Homeland Defense Act, but it won't even help the best weaponry if we're alone. And that is what you are doing by printing judgments against the legal system of the European Union in this pseudo-court. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Kaczyński's security! I'm asking because it's your people who make these, God forbid, sentences. Do you even feel the consequences of saying: in Poland human rights are incompatible with the Polish constitution? Is that what you've been doing in hiding for the last few days? Did you say that this is the perfect time to catch democracy in Poland because everyone is busy helping refugees and no one will notice? I am sure that by attacking our presence in the Union, you have miscalculated, just as Putin has miscalculated, giving an order to attack Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u28	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the press spokesperson of the Bieszczadzki Border Guard Division, Piotr Zakielarz comprehensively from 24 February to 11 March to 3 p.m. 7 through the crossings in Podkarpacie: at the transition in Medyce - 337 800 refugees, including on foot - 148 thousand and by rail - 100,000, in Korczowa - 203 700 people, including on foot - 69 thousand, in the Buddomier - 149 800 people, including on foot - 61 800, in Krościenko - 81 thousand, including on foot - 28 200 people. Ladies and gentlemen! These crowds were stocked, overnighted, transported to safe places, fed. It is thanks to the services of your voivodeship Ewa Leniart, the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, the local governments of Lubaczowski County, regarding the transition in the Budomierz... I would like to focus more on the transition in the Budometer, but I know that on all the crossings, refugees are treated the same way across the entire border. It is thanks to the very large involvement of the Border Guard and Mr. kmdt. Michał Małyski, fire department officers with Mr. kmdt. Janusz Jabłoński, Police with Mr. kmdt. Grzegorz Błaszczyk and the entire branch of the Bieszczadzki Border Guard with General Andrzej Popka... I would very much like to thank all those who run the reception point, which is managed on behalf of your voivodeship by the governor of the municipality of Wiesław Kapel, together with the entire crew, with all its employees. I would particularly like to stress here the very importance of the work and the great help of Mrs Marty Tabaczek - the president of the district government in Lubaczów. Thank you very much, Mr Zenon Swatk, Dean Andrzej Footer, who focuses primarily on helping prepare meals, but also on moving everything that is needed to the other side to Ukraine. Thank you very much Caritas Poland with its director Marcin Iżycki, the Knights of Columbus, the Lviv Lovers' Association with the president Maria Magon, all volunteers of the Noble Pack with Mrs Danuta Kacprzak, but also all scouts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much like to tell everyone I haven't mentioned here on my behalf... Every single citizen of the Republic of Poland helps. Please wake up, all of you, stop this terrible war. Those kids, those mothers with those kids... I am here, speaking on behalf of Ukrainian mothers, Ukrainian children: stop this war in Ukraine. Don't let her bleed all over Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u30	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Parliamentary Members of the Road! I have already tried many times during this parliamentary debate to understand what crisis management is all about. And I am astonished to say that a large proportion of parliamentarians really do not understand what crisis management means. In crisis management of a situation where there is a threat of war, a threat of life, safety or an epidemic, including health, action must be rapid. Each sector in this governance: and this government, and this local government, and the various public entities that are foreseen in the management system must act in advance. Action in advance means that not all the elements that are laid down in the laws are provided for. It is only after appropriate protective action that this can be regulated backwards, that decisions that are intended to protect life or property can be assessed. I am therefore surprised to see that the regulations that were provided for in the law that we debated regarding assistance to Ukrainian citizens, but the rules in force in every state of emergency, have not been adopted. That means that today some public officials will still be blocked in their actions. I am surprised at all that public officials, especially those who criticize, for example. the operation of a part of the public sector does not understand that they are obliged to make decisions: financial and material, but they must not be threatened. They must be sure that their actions will be adopted and that they will not be judged, condemned, because that would be absurd. Therefore, I believe that certain safeguards, regulations which concern the legalisation of their actions to the right extent and on behalf of the protection of life and health, as well as property, should be introduced into the legal system. I hope that we will make up for what has been called into question today or in previous debates because of the lack of understanding of crisis management. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to make that very clear, because political warfare has no meaning here. In the future, others will be able to benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-12-sejm-50-4.u32	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned by 18 March 2022 until 6 p.m. 11. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 12 min 15]] *)
